Document of
The World Ban]k
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
N  t '\      Report No. 3213a-SU
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES P'ROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
August 23, 1981
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     =       Sudanese Pound (LSd)      =      100 piasters
Official Market                                            Parallel Market
US$1.00  = LSd 0.50                                        US$1.00  = LSd 0.80
LSd 1.00 = US$2.00                                         LSd 1.00 = US$1.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fd)              =  1.04 acres (ac)       = 0.42 hectares (ha)
1 metric ton (mt)          =  1,000 kg              = 2,202.6 (lbs)
1 kilometer                -  1,000 meters
1 meter (m)                -  3.3 feet
1 cubic meter (m )         =  35 cubic feet
1 foot (ft)                =  12 inches (ins)
ABBREVIATIONS
ABS     -    Agricultural Bank of Sudan
ARC     -    Agricultural Research Corporation
ARP     -    Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
BOS     -    Bank of Sudan
EAP     -    Export Action Program
GOS     -    Government of Sudan
MAFNR   -    Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
NWA     -    National Water Authority
SOC     -    Sudan Oilseeds Company
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30
N



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND  ...............................................                 1
A. The Agricultural Sector.                                                1
B.  Bank Group Lending to Agriculture .....................                2
C. Project Rationale.                                                      2
Il. THE SUBPROJECT AREAS.                                                        3
A. Umm Ruaba.                                                              3
B. Abu Hamed.                                                              5
C.  Dongola ...............................................                6
III. THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN (ABS).                                       8
A. Role and History of ABS.                                                8
B. Organization and Management .10
C. Financial Situation .11
IV. THE PROJECT .12
A. General Description .12
B. Detailed Features .12
C.  Project Costs ........................................                15
D. Proposed Financing .16
E.  Procurement ..........................................                17
F. Disbursement .18
G. Accounts and Audit .19
H. Environmental Effect .19
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ....................................                 20
*              A.  Agricultural Bank of Sudan ............................                20
B.  Subprojects ...........................................               24
C. Monitoring and Evaluation .26
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Sudan in
February/March 1980 comprising Messrs. S. Gafsi and C. Pradithavanij (IDA)
and C. Martin, S. Singh and W. Whitesell (Consultanits). Mr. B. Falconer
and Mrs. P. Broemser compiled the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                     Page No.
VI.  AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES  .... .......    26
A.    Production  ..........................................    26
B.    Marketing  ...........................................   29
C.    Prices  ..............................................   30
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  ........... ............    30
VIII.RECOMMENDATIONS          .........................................    33
ANNEX 1 - CHART 1   -  Existing Organization Chart  ....... ...    36
2   -   Proposed Organization Chart  .......     ..    37
Table  1  -   Credit and Institutional Costs ....      .............    38
2   --  Estimatc_ -chedule of Disbursements .......  .       39
3 - Commodity Prices .40
4 - Farm Incomes .41
5 - Sensitivity Analysis .44
6   -  ABS Forecast Balance Sheets .45
7   -  ABS Forecast Income Statements.                       46
8 - ABS Forecast Cash Flow .47
9   -  Economic Costs and Benefits .48
ANNEX 2   -   ABS Unsettled Assets and Liabilities .49
ANNEX 3   -   Technical Assistance - Terms of Reference             50
ANNEX 4   -  Allocation of Functions between ABS
Headquarters and Its Branches .54
ANNEX 5   -  ABS Assumptions to Forecast Financial Statements       56
ANNEX 6    -  Table of Contents for Implementation Volume           58
ANNEX 7    -  Related Documentry and Data Available in
Project File .59
MAP    -   Sudan, ABS Branch Offices (IBRD No. 15384)



SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.   Agricultural Sector
1.01       The agricultural sector accounts for about 40 percent of Sudan's
Gross Domestic Product, is the source of virtually all exports, provides
employment for over two-thirds of the labor force and supplies inputs for a
substantial proportion of industrial activity. The Bank completed an Agri-
cultural Sector Survey in 1979, (Report No. 1836a-SU of May 18, 1979).
1.02       The agricultural sector is characterized by its duality; modern
capital-intensive irrigation and rainfed mechanized activities co-exist with
traditional rainfed subsistence agriculture. About 4.2 million feddans are
covered by irrigation schemes, 5.6 million feddans are under large scale
mechanized farming systems and over 11 million feddans are under traditional
cultivation. The major irrigated crops are cotton (accounting for about 50%
of Sudan-s total exports), groundnuts, sorghum and wheat; the productivity of
these crops has registered a steep decline during the second half of the
seventies. The crops grown in the rainfed areas are sorghum, millet, sesame,
groundnuts and short staple cotton. Like the irrigated subsector, the
mechanized farming subsector has also shown a marked decline in productivity
during ,he past five years.  During the same period, the traditional sector,
with yields always low, has expanded in area but with no improvement in
productivity.
1.03       The principal reasons for the deterioration in Sudan's agricultural
performance during the second half of the seventies include: (i) loss of
incentives for production agents created by depressed prices of important
cash crops like cotton, resulting from heavy export duties and an overvalued
exchange rate; (ii) shortage of foreign exchange for maintaining investments
and importing essential inputs for the modern sector; (iii) lack of adequate
local currency allocation for the current operations of certain parastatals
operating in the large irrigated subsectors; and (iv) the continuing drain of
skilled manpower to neighboring countries, where salaries are higher.
1.04       Steep increases in the prices of imports, deterioration in export
*         performance, a sharp deterioration in balance of payments situation and
shortages of domestic budgetary resources in certain areas have been mutually
reinforcing and have led to the present crisis in the Sudanese economy. As
part of an economic recovery program, Government decided to reorder investment
priorities and operate within the framework of a rolling Three-Year Public
Investment Program. The main objective of this program is to concentrate on
completion of ongoing projects and on investments which contribute fastest to
growth of exports and domestic revenues. New projects are to be limited to
those that rehabilitate existing production schemes and help alleviate infra-
structural bottlenecks.



-2
1.05       The Bank's lending strategy is fully consistent with these prior-
ities and with the Government's Export Action Program (EAP). The latter
program has the objective of achieving a seven percent per annum average
increase in cotton production over the 1979-91 period and focuses on three
key elements of strategy: (i) policy changes to encourage increased produc-
tion from the irrigation subsector; (ii) immediate provision of urgently
needed hardware for major irrigation schemes; and (iii) a series of develop-
ment projects which would meet rehabilitation and modernization needs of
existing irrigated schemes.  EAP also underscores the needs in the longer
term to establish a broader agricultural base, concentrating particularly on
development of rainfed areas.
B. Bank Group Lending to Agriculture
1.06       Since the first loan of US$15.5 million, approved in 1960 for
the Managil Irrigation Project (extension of the Gezira Scheme), the Bank
Group has approved a total of 16 lending operations involving US$364.5 million
for agriculture in Sudan. These operations cover virtually all subsectors:
(i) Irrigation (Managil, Roseires and Rahad Projects, the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program Credit and the New Halfa Irrigation Projcz`;
(ii) Rainfed Mechanized Farming (Loans/Credits for three projects for the
Sudan Mechanized Farming Corporation); (iii) Smallholder Development (Credit
for the Savannah Development Project - recently revised - and two projects in
the Southern Region, the most recent having been approved in 1979); (iv) Live-
stock (Credit for a Marketing Project approved in June 1978); and (v) Research
(Credit supporting the activities of the Agricultural Research Corporation
approved in July 1978). Projects for the rehabilitation of the White and
Blue Nile Pump Schemes were approved in March 1981. Besides, preparation has
begun for a project to rehabilitate and modernize the Gezira Scheme, which
covers half the irrigation subsector of the Sudan. Also envisioned are a
Sugar Rehabilitation Project and a Second Technical Assistance Credit to
strengthen project preparation and implementation in agriculture as well as
other sectors.
C.   Project Rationale
1.07       The private agricultural sector in Sudan faces two main constraints
which adversely affect its productivity. The first is an acute foreign exchange
shortage which prevents import of machinery and spare parts, handicapping the
activities of the privately owned mechanized rainfed and irrigated schemes.
The second is the absence of satisfactory credit arrangements for financing
such ventures.  Currently, only about one percent of the total credit needs of
private sector agriculture are met by the public sector Agricultural Bank of
Sudan (ABS). Private money lending is not only expensive but restrictive and
prevents the private sector from realizing its full potential. It should be
mentioned that Government is considering transfer of a number of activities,



-3-
presently carried out by parastatals in the irrigated and mechanized farming
subsectors, to the private sector and the tenants themselves. This would
expand the role of the private sector and would, in turn, create further
demands for institutional credit for financing teniants and farmers in these
subsectors. There is therefore a pressing need to strengthen and expand
institutional arrangements for credit in the Sudan.
.
1.08       As a result of this situation in the private agricultural sector,
the Government of Sudan has requested World Bank assistance for an Agricul-
tural Services Project designed to strengthen the institutional structure of
the ABS and provide assistance to three subprojecit areas (Umm Ruaba, Abu Hamed
and Dongola). ABS would be used as the vehicle for implementation of the
subprojects which are formulated on a package of credit, essential inputs and
services. They would provide a package of assistance to some 15,000 families
to help increase production of grains, groundnuts, gum arabic, sesame, fruit
and vegetables. These subprojects are consistent with the objectives of the
Three-Year Public Investment Program since they contribute to the rehabilita-
tion of productive capacity which would yield increased net foreign exchange
benefits in the short run through expansion of exports and/or reduction of
imports. These subprojects would expand ABS's credit network and enhance its
capabiLities in the field of credit and extension of technical packages.
II. THE SUBPROJECT AREAS
A. Umm Ruaba
Location, Climate, Soils and Topography
2.01      The area around the township of Umm Ruaba which is situated in the
southeast corner of North Kordofan is about 1 million feddans; of this, about
240,000 feddans would be covered by the subproject (Map IBRD No. 15384).
The low and erratic rainfall and high temperatures produce semi-arid condi-
tions. Annual rainfall is about 400 mm and falls mainly between April and
October.  The mean temperatures range from 220 C in January to 32 0C  in May.
Soils of the subproject area are sandy and of medium fertility but are
generally free of salinity and alkalinity and are capable of growing a
diversified range of food, fiber and tree crops. Acacia Senegal, which
produces gum arabic, and Aristida grass species are the most important plants.
Topography is uneven and generally undulating, causing considerable runoff of
rainwater.
Present Land Tenure, Farm Size and Land Use
2.02      Village sites are determined by constructed water yards and surface
storage facilities (hafirs). Farmers, who live in huts made of sorghum stover,



- 4 -
occupy small scattered villages around which they hand cultivate their parcels
of land which can be a considerable distance apart. The subproject would
benefit some 6,000 farm families. The average farm holding is approximately
40 feddans of which half is under crops and the rest under gum arabic and
pasture. The crops to be found in the area include food crops (millet,
sorghum) and cash crops (sesame, groundnut and karkadeh-Hibiscus sabdariffa),
all of which can withstand extended dry periods. Some 60% of the cropped area
is planted to cash crops, 80% of which is under sesame. Because of the range
of sesame varieties and extended cultivation period, average yields have been
fairly resistant to erratic rainfall. As the crop matures over a long period,
demand for harvesting labor is also spread out. Gum arabic trees dominate the
woodland Savannah vegetation.
Existing Infrastructure
2.03      The subproject area is virtually without natural permanent surface
water supplies. During the rainy season, the surface runoff passes through
seasonal water courses of which the major is Khor Abu Habl running parallel to
the southern boundary of the project. The water in this depression has been
dammed at Al Rahad to form a large reservoir over 10 km long and is an
important source of domestic water supply. The subproject area has aquifers
with dependable supplies of water and wells have been dug which produce
domestic water in limited quantities at a depth of 30-50 feet. However, these
wells are insufficient for community requirements and farmers in many villages
incur heavy costs transporting their domestic water supplies long distances by
lorry or donkey.
2.04      The railway from Khartoum to El Obeid and Nyala runs parallel to
Khor Abu Habl and connects the larger towns in the area. There are no paved
roads in the area but lorries and four-wheel drive vehicles can traverse
the country even during the rains.
Input Supply and Output Marketing
2.05      The Umm Ruaba area is totally dominated by the *sheil" credit
system. Farmers borrow money from traders, pledging their future crops at an
agreed price, to buy inputs and daily necessities of life. Since this is the
only available source of credit, farmers are obliged to sell their crops at
very low prices. In any case, they cannot hold their crops to sell at higher
market prices due to lack of storage, transport facilities and lack of avail-
able cash. The cost to the farmer of this sheil system is not known, but
interest charges are reported to be as high as 100% per annum. In 1977,
farmers in the area requested ABS to provide seasonal credit. This has led to
formation of small primary cooperatives. In the 1978/79 period, ABS made
loans to about 1,000 farmers through five cooperatives. LSd 126,400 was
loaned to cover costs of planting, weeding, harvesting and marketing of sesame
and groundnuts; repayments were 100% on time. Similar results were achieved
in 1979/80 and in 1980/81 the program was expanded through some 15 registered
cooperatives.



- 5 -
B. Abu Hamed
Location, Climate, Soils and Topography
2.06      The subproject area, 200 km long and approximately 2 km wide,
is located along both banks of the Main Nile in the Nile Province (Map
IBRD No. 15384). In this area, the annual rainfall, taken from the 30 year
record, is only 15 mm.  The mean temperatures range from 21 C in January to
360C in June. Only small parcels of land in this stretch have suitable soils
and topography for agricultural production. The rest of the land is not
suitable for production as it is either rocky, too sandy or on steep slopes.
The irrigated area under the subproject is about 16,800 feddans. The soils,
in general, are alluvial sandy soils with some cracking clays occupying the
lower parts of the area.  They are considered less fertile than in other
irrigated areas along the Main Nile.  However, their sandy nature and above
average calcium content make them particularly well suited to the production
of confectionery groundnuts.  The soils are also generally free of salinity
and alkalinity, thus making them suitable for growing of a diversified range
of food and fiber crops and fruits.  Outside the irrigated areas, soils are
generally less suitable for crop production because of high alkalinity,
salinity and undulation. The subproject area slopes gently towards the Nile
with a short steep fall of 3 to 8 m at the edge of the river channel. Indi-
vidual schemes are usually flat with slightly higher ground lying outside
the area commanded by the irrigation system.
Present Land Tenure, Farm Size and Land Use
2.07      In the subproject area, the alluvial lands immediately alongside
the river and on islands are privately owned. Through inheritance, this land
has been subdivided over generations into a multitude of small plots. A very
strong sense of individual ownership exists. Other less fertile land further
from the river is Government owned and is leased for cultivation by indi-
viduals. Farms vary in size and are often operated by a combined force of
pumpowner, landholder, sharecroppers, hired and reciprocal labor. Share-
croppers are often very closely related to pumpowners and landholders. The
key figure in management is usually the pumpowner who borrows money, on-lends
and makes inputs available to other participants. A sharecropper generally
does not manage more than two feddans. The crop is divided amongst all
participants according to the inputs contributed. Some 1,000 pumpowners/
landholders and 6,000 sharecropper families would benefit from the Project.
Most of the crops are grown during the winter season (October-May).
2.08      The area enjoyed a period of exceptional prosperity due to the
introduction in 1962 of summer cultivation of confectionery groundnuts. By
1970, there was an annual export of 6,000 tons of in-shell groundnuts, involv-
ing 1,000 pumpowners. The subsequent decline and demise of the crop is attri-
buted to falling quality and yields due to seed deterioration, overcropping,
price decline because of the closing of the Suez Canal and controlled market-
ing system through the Sudan Oilseed Company (SOC), in place of the previously
successful private marketing system. The area is now depressed. Beans and
wheat are the main crops accounting for about half of the cropped area. Date
palm is grown near the river.



-6-
Existing Infrastructure
2.09      The subproject consists mainly of small privately owned pump irriga-
tion schemes, about 1,400 in all (averaging 12 feddans per scheme), each of
which has at least one pump unit and a gravity water distribution system.
There are at present approximately 1,900 existing pumps and engines in the
Abu Hamed area. Pumps are usually sited on the river bank on concrete founda-
tions. Two foundations are usually provided for low and high flow of the
river. For the average pumping head of 5 m, a 3-inch pump can deliver water at
about 250 gallons/minute which provides adequate seasonal irrigation for
eight feddans of cropped area.  The canal system for each scheme consists of
a main canal and small field channels. The main canal, usually running at
right angles to the river and general contours, conveys water from the pumping
unit to the irrigated area and water is then distributed through the Pield
channels. The farm area is divided into small basins, 500 to 1,000 m , and
irrigated either by flooding or short furrow irrigation. During the full
growing period, irrigation usually takes 10 hours per day to cover an area of
1 feddan with the 3-inch size pump. Therefore, for the average cultivated
area of 8 feddans, irrigation interval is about 8 days, which is suitable for
the type of crops grown in the area. There are no field drains provided
because rainfall is low and irrigation is carefully regulated by farmers.
2.10      The railway passes through the whole length of the subproject
area, near the right bank of the Nile with stations at all main villages.
The railway connects the towns on the border with Egypt, and runs through
Atbara to Khartoum and Port Sudan. A road track runs alongside the railway.
Regular ferry services cross the Nile at convenient locations and serve the
islands in the river, but no service exists for using the river for freight
transportation purposes up and down stream. As the project area is close to
Atbara, supply of farm inputs, domestic supplies and output marketing are made
easier.
Input Supply and Output Marketing
2.11      In Abu Hamed, the farmers retain seed for planting purposes and
presently buy the majority of their seasonal inputs and daily requirements
for cash from the traders. The vital inputs are fuel, spare parts and re-
placement irrigation sets, all of which are in short supply. Crops are
marketed through the traders when harvested, as storage is not readily
available. The sheil system is in use in Abu Hamed as well, but on terms
less stringent than in Umm Ruaba.
C. Dongola
Location, Climate, Soils and Topography
2.12      The subproject area is located along both banks of the main Nile
in the Northern Province, with the main concentration of agricultural activity
being in the Selaim Basin (Map IBRD No. 15384). The Basin is an old course of



- 7 -
the Nile, some 50 km long and approximately two km wide, consisting of a
complex of smaller basins with connecting channels and intervening sandy
ridges. The course of an old canal runs through the Basin. The Basin
is about 50,000 feddans, with about a third being cultivable.  It lies on she
right bank of the main Nile with its southern extremity opposite the town of
Dongola, the provincial capital. Outside the Basin, small narrow strips
alongside both banks of the Nile and on the islands are cultivated.  The
subproject area of cultivable land is about 34,000 feddans. The area is arid
with negligible rainfall. The summers are hot and the winters cool, with
frequent continuous high winds and frosts at night.  The mean temperatures
range from 18 C in January to 34 C in June.  The tcpography is uneven.
Soils are generally kept free from salinity and alkalinity in the Basin by
periodic flooding. Layers of alluvium have been detposited by floods. Some
moderately saline sandy ridges, former sand banks cf the old river, have
formed on top of the alluvium, but the salinity is not considered serious as
the subsoils are well drained and underground water is not saline.
Present Land Tenure, Farm Size and Land Use
2.13      Land tenure in the Selaim Basin was converted from large private
holdings to ten feddan allotments by Government in 1970 in an effort to secure
a more equitable distribution. However, land registration is incomplete
as title deeds are as yet to be issued. Although the unit of allotment is
ten feddans, the amount of cultivable land per holder varies and about 35%
is unfit for cultivation. The majority of landowners, about two-thirds, have
one unit of allotment. Family, reciprocal and hired labor constitute the bulk
of the labor and sharecropping is of limited use in this category. Decisions
on the crop and area to be planted are usually made by the landholder but on
larger farms pumpowners and sharecroppers may take part in the decision-
making. The Dongola Branch serves about 3,400 irrigation units involving
8,000 families; of this number the Project would benefit some 1,500 pumpowners/
landholders. Most of the crops are grown during the winter season (October-
May). Beans and wheat are the main crops accounting for over 70% of the
cultivated area with the majority of the remainder under high value spices and
vegetables. The extent of summer cultivation, sorghum and berseem, is variable
due to the unpredictable extent of summer flooding. Dates are the most
important permanent crop.
2.14      Almost all landholders own small numbers of livestock which are
managed within the household. Cattle provide traction power and milk, donkeys
are used for transport, goats are kept for milk and sheep for meat. The
standard of livestock management is high, stall feeding being widely practiced.
Berseem and sorghum are grown for stock feed and cynadon grass, a vigorous
weed of cultivation, is kept in check by cutting for fodder.
Existing Infrastructure
2.15      Approximately half of the cultivated area of the subproject is
outside the Selaim Basin and is made up of numerous strips of land, irrigated
by pumps sited on the river bank, in a similar manner to the Abu Hamed sub-
project (para. 2.09). The other half of the subproject area in the Selaim



8-
Basin is irrigated by pumpsets, using six to eight hp diesel engines through
three-inch pipes, and drawing water from approximately 1,100 simple tubewells.
The annual floods to the Basin, which deposit silt and recharge the aquifer,
only benefit a limited and variable number of farmers whose plots lie close to
the line of the canal. In the last few years the canal has not been dredged
and Government is already aware of this problem and is about to embark on
measures to clear the canal. After the flood, groundwater is within six to
ten feet of the surface. Eowever, because of the fall in the groundwater
level later in the season, it is necessary to drill to the shingle rock level,
reached at depths of up to 300 feet. From a blind pipe opening, water is
drawn by the pumpset without the use of filters, resulting in low water
yields. In addition to the limited yield of these tubewells, pumpsets are
old. However, the present average pumpset is capable of delivering sufficient
water for irrigation of about nine feddans. There is a need to upgrade
groundwater extraction technology in the area. The National Water Authority
(NWA) has the technology and skilled manpower to install efficient tubewells
but the Authority-s assistance is not currently available to private farmers.
2.16      Khartoum, 600 km away, is the main outlet for produce surplus to
the Dongola market and the regular source of about half the fuel require-
ments of Dongola, the remainder coming from Atbara direct by truck or via
Kerima by rail and river transport. The existing very poor track over rock
and soft sand takes an average of 26 hours travelling time to Khartoum and
imposes high costs. The ferry service between Dongola and Selaim on the
opposite bank of the Nile is adequate but the steamer service between Dongola
and railhead at Kerima has maintained only a passenger carrying role. River
tankers bring fuel from the railhead at Kerima but the service is inadequate
and, consequently, fuel is mainly transported by truck to Dongola.
Input Supply and Output Marketing
2.17      The majority of Dongola farmers traditionally rely on sheil credit
provided by the pumpowners or merchants.  Security for ABS medium-term credit
is required in the form of registered title to land or buildings. Farmers
with township plots, or inherited holdings can provide such security but most
of the Selaim farmers have yet to receive formal title or lease documents and
are therefore presently ineligible for ABS loans for capital goods; hence ABS
has few clients at present for this type of loan. Sheil money lenders are
thus the principal source of credit and also market surplus produce to Khartoum.
III.  THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN (ABS)
A. Role and History of ABS
3.01      ABS was established by an Act of Parliament in 1957 to provide
credit to small and medium cultivators as well as to cooperatives; to increase
agricultural output by supplying improved seeds, insecticides and fertilizers
as well as extension services, to import farm machinery; and to assist



- 9 -
producers in handling, storing and marketing their crops.  AilS began operations
in. 1959 and has built up considerable experience in the fields of procurement,
credit, iaarketing, storage and harvesting services. It has been virtually the
only speoialized institution providing credit to private farmers. Recently a
Bank of Cooperatives was formed: it presently does not have the resources to
carry out any significant lending and Government has agreed that ABS should
continue to lend to cooperatives in accordance with its constitution. Besides
this, commercial banks do finance storage and export of crops, but not on-farm
activities.
3.02      ABS operations are concentrated mainly in the mechanized farming
subsector with private irrigation and traditional rainfed areas being
comparat-vely neglected. In total ABS lends to only about 5,000 clients a
year, wh-ch is approximately one percent of the potential clients.  Most
farmers still avail themselves of expensive credit from traders under the
sheil system.
3.03      Two-thirds of ABS lending has been seasonal credit (fifteen month
maturity), the balance lent on medium term (five year maturity) primarily for
machinery or irrigation equipment. ABS interest rates are 7% to 9% per annum
depending on type of credit and applicant. Although land as a security is
difficult to realize, ABS normally requires from clients a land mortgage or
other security valued at 30% more than the amount of the loan. However, this
is varied in the case of cooperatives. The Credit Regulations - 1974 set out
the loan types, purposes, interest, security, application, contract, repayment
and supervision procedures, together with special rules relating to coopera-
tives.
3.04      ABS collection rates have averaged only 50%.  The 1957 Act empowers
the Board of ABS to make their order for debt collection equivalent to a
decree of the civil court. In practice, there have been protracted delays in
civil court proceedings. There is need to improve performance in this area.
Government has been reviewing a draft, which would strengthen debt collection
procedures, but this has been pending since 1975. Hlowever, the provisions of
the 1957 Act are adequate, provided enforcement is :improved.
3.05      ABS has made a modest start at resource mobilization by starting
commercial banking activities at two branches, Dongola and Zalingei. Further
extension of commercial banking operations has been impeded by a recent ruling
by the Bank of Sudan (BOS) prohibiting public sector agencies (including ABS)
from earning interest on bank deposits.
3.06      A number of non-banking activities have been undertaken by ABS to
satisfy needs which no other institution nor the private sector have been able
to fulfill. It is likely that these will continue until such time as the
services can be provided by either public or private agencies.
3.37      ABS ulon-banking activities include importation, distribution and
sale of agricultural machinery, fertilizer, sacks and seeds; importing
wheat and exporting sorghum on behalf of the Government; operation of govern-
meat silos; operation of ABS warehouses for storage of farmers' crops and
inputs; and contract harvesting in mechanized farming areas.



- 10 -
3.08      ABS has played a dominant role in importation and distribution of
agricultural machinery (mainly tractors) in Sudan, to such an extent that
the growth of private dealer networks has been impeded. Earnings
from this activity have made a major contribution to total income.
3.09      Operation of silos and Government imports and exports related
thereto have little relevance to ABS primary business of assisting private
farmers. The silos have incurred losses and it is not clear whether ABS or
Government is responsible for them, as no legal transfer of ownership or
management agreement exists.
3.10      ABS is phasing out its contract harvesting activities as private
contractors are now providing this service. ABS will continue to play a
useful role in assisting farmers with the marketing of their crops, in parti-
cular by providing crop storage facilities. ABS warehouses are also useful in
the distribution of inputs not handled by private merchants (e.g., fertilizer).
These functions aid ABS in its banking activities by enabling it to provide
credit in kind and to strengthen loan collections by participating in crop
marketing.
B. Organization and Management
3.11      ABS has about 1,000 employees, half of whom are technical and pro-
fessional staff engaged at headquarters, the branches and the silos. The other
half are classified as unskilled and skilled laborers (Annex 1, Chart 1). Its
staff include nearly 140 university graduates, many of whom ABS has sponsored
for overseas studies. At the management level, ABS has some highly motivated
staff who appreciate the importance of their development role. There is
still a pressing need for high-level on-the-job training and advice on manage-
ment and technical matters.
3.12      ABS has 15 credit branches, two commercial banking branches, two
silo branches, a trading branch at Port Sudan, as well as a headquarters
unit providing controls over credit operations, centralized planning and
accounting, legal, personnel and procurement support services to the branches.
3.13      ABS suffers from a number of institutional weaknesses which limit
its ability to make use of the qualities of its staff. There is a wide span
of control for top management, a diffusion and overlap of responsibility for
branch supervision and control and an excessive concentration of higher-
qualified but underutilized staff at headquarters. Branch reporting, account-
ing, budgeting and management information and control procedures are seriously
deficient and performance standards are not clearly enforced, thus resulting
in poor internal coordination and wide variation in the performance of branches.
While ABS screens out many potential borrowers based on general credit policies
set at headquarters, the branches have not been selective enough based on
appraisals of individual projects.



- 11 -
C. Financial Situation
3.14      ABS suffers from several major financial problems; a poor record
cf collections, an uncertain net worth due to large unsettled liabilities
between ABS and various Government agencies and an unprofitable credit
business which can no longer be supported by large trading profits.
3.15      The quality and reliability of ABS records in respect of its loan
portfolio are such that it is not possible to ascertain the true value of
the por:folio. Based on information available, it appears that about 60%
of the ?ortfolio is overdue. At the end of 1979, ABS had unsettled claims
valued it LSd 2.4 million for 1,500 borrowers, against which there was a
provision for bad debts of LSd 1.1 million.
$'.16     There are old unsettled accounts between ABS and Government and its
ELgencie'3. At December 31, 1979, assets involved total about LSd 7.8 million
<and lia'ailities 8.6 million, including 2.9 million accrued interest on
capital (Annex 2). The continued incorporation of these items within the
balance sheet is misleading and is likely to affect ABS net worth.
3.17      At the end of 1979, a significant part of ABS total liabilities
of LSd 20 million were in foreign supplier credits (LSd 6.8 million),
on which ABS was taking the foreign exchange risk. Due to the devaluation of
the Sudanese Pound in 1978 and 1979, additional liabilities in local currency
have been incurred by ABS on its debt service payments. In addition, ABS
authorized BOS to charge its account for debt service payments, but due to
foreign currency shortages, BOS was unable to meet certain payments on due
(late and has, therefore, caused ABS to incur interest penalties.
3.18      Until 1977, the contribution from trading commissions enabled ABS
to remain in profit. Since then a lower volume of trading activity has been
recorded, due to lack of foreign exchange to purchase the agricultural
machinery and a loss was recorded for the first time in 1978.  Although the
1979 results record a small profit, this has been achieved by a misleading
presentation of the results of the banking business and by an understatement
of the provision for doubtful debts. The situation will continue to worsen
as the full effect of the 1979 pay award to the banking sector (averaging
45%), has yet to be shown against the reduced income.
3.19      ABS cannot continue to rely on intermittent non-banking transactions
It-o support its banking business. In order to have a profitable base, it is
necessary for ABS to improve its loan collection performance, on-lend at
competitive market rates, exercise stricter control over its administrative
expenditure and increase its volume and quality of lending.



12 -
IV. TIHE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The Project would provide a supervised package of credit and comple-
mentary services to private farmers in three areas: Umm Ruaba rainfed area
(240,000 feddans), Abu Hamed irrigated area (16,800 feddans) and Dongola
irrigated area (34,000 feddans) and Institutional support for ABS. The
Project would provide needed imported inputs and would help improve the level
of productivity of crops grown, introduce supervised credit as an alternative
to the presently widespread sheil system of credit and thus raise the farmer's
and sharecropper's incomes. It would accomplish these objectives by
strengthening ABS' overall operations, both at headquarters and at the
branches, thus giving ABS the means to provide private farmers with agricul-
tural credit and those complementary services which would remove the present
constraints on production. The Project is seen as the first phase of a series
of similar supervised packages for other parts of Sudan.
4.02      Specifically, the Project would provide (as appropriate on
credit):
(a)  Pumpsets and spare parts to ensure adequate water supply
to crops in the Abu Hamed and Dongola areas and tubewells
and spare parts in the Dongola area;
(b)  Agricultural machinery and equipment for use in the
Abu Hamed area;
(c)  Incremental annual farm inputs, cash advances and other farm
operational costs in Umm Ruaba, Abu Hamed and Dongola;
(d)  Motor vehicles for ABS headquarters and the branch offices
to improve timely services to farmers;
(e)  Required additional ABS buildings for offices, stores and
staff housing to increase efficiency and to facilitate supply
distribution and marketing channels;
(f) Technical assistance and training;
B. Detailed Features
Irrigation Equipment (US$5.4 million)
4.03      In order to ensure an adequate water supply to crops in the Abu
Hamed and Dongola areas, the Project would provide funds to rehabilitate and,
where necessary, replace pumps, engines and tubewells as required by farmers.



- 13 -
The totaL replacement required in Abu Hamed, based on the existing number of
1,900 pumps and diesel engines and a 10-year economic life for engines and 20
for pump.,, is estimated to be 780 engines (4-16 HP) and 390 pumps (2-8 in.)
and would be procured over three years.  The number to be procured each year
would deDend on farmers' requests and is estimated to be 380 for the first
year and 200 each for the second and third. In Dongola estimated requirements
are 680 engines and 340 pumps, with 50% in the first year and the balance over
the second and third years, and 250 tubewells with 20% the first year and the
balance in the second and third years.
Agricultural Machinery and Equipment (US$0.6 Million)
4.04      To meet the need for farm tractors and implements by farmers who
own or lease larger areas of cultivated land in Abu Hamed, the Project
would provide 30 tractors (30-50 HP) and 30 wide-level discs to be used
fcr land preparation and levelling. In addition, the Project would provide
400 knapsack sprayers in Abu Hamed, 250 in Umm Ruaba and 50 platform scales
for the cooperatives.
Mctor Vehicles (US$1.5 Million)
4.05      The Project would provide 8 motor vehicles, 3 four-wheel drive
station wagons and 35 four-wheel drive pickups. These purchases would ensure
adequate mobility for ABS staff operating at both headquarters and all branches
and strengthen arrangements for timely services to farmers.
4.06      The Project would also provide for 12 five-ton trucks (6 each for
Abu Hamed and Umm Ruaba) to selected farmers' cooperatives in Umm Ruaba
and to individual farmers in Abu Hamed for transport of farm inputs and
produce.
Buildings and Equipment for Offices, Stores and Staff Housing (US$4.4 Million)
4.07      The Project would provide one office building, one store and one
unit of staff housing and equipment for each of ABS branch offices at
Umm Ruaba and Abu Hamed.  The office building and staf5 housing would be of
ABS standard types having total areas of 280 and 300 m , res ectively.  The
store at Umm R2aba would have a greater storage area (4,000 m ) than at Abu
Hamed (1,000 m ) since it would cater to a larger cultivated area.  In addi-
tion, construction of standard offices ang staff housing at Dema5ine, Dongola
and Kassala and storage at Dilling (200 m ) and Kassala (1,000 m ) would be
provided. All offices, housing and storage would be constructed from standard
structural designs and most of the sites are already secured.
4.08      The Project would provide additional headquarters office space
constructed on a site now owned by ABS and alterations to the existing head-
quarters office building in Khartoum. This is not planned until the third
year of the Project as initially staff would move from Khartoum to the branches



- 14 -
to start up the activities at the new branch offices and thus relieve some of
the present demand on office space at headquarters, also, building specifica-
tions can be drawn up only after the consultant's report on the study to be
carried out on ABS staffing levels is received. ABS would niot proceed with
the construction until after the Association has considered the consul'tant's
report and approved the building plins.  It is estimated that the miniMum
additional area required is 1,100 m  and this is provided for in the Project.
Technical Assistance and Trainin  (US$2.4 Million'
4.09      The Project would finance one technical assistance post of advisor
to the Managing Director. He would also be responsible for coordinating the
work of the consultants, identifying and examining new business opportunities
for ABS, ad-vising and guiding the work of the Monitoring and Evaluation
Department . The total man-months required would be 48, at a cost of about
US$0.5 million. The average man-month cost (based on the individual's fees,
international travel and local allowances) is expected to be about US$10,000
per man-month. The timely employment of this specialist, on terms and conditions
and with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association was
agreed at negotiations.
4.10      The Project would finance 72 man-months of consultant's services
for an in-depth review, redesign and implementation of management and account-
ing information systems of ABS, and provide complementary staff training and
the services of a financial advisor for a period of 48 man-months.  The
consultant's services would also include provision for the establishment and
implementation of new procurement procedures which would combine a system of
farmers choice and !CB (paras. 4.19 and 4.20). A review of existing credit
policies and procedures, the statement of policy and a mid-term review of the
geographical scope of lending within resources available would also be made.
Terms of reference are shown in Annex 3. The total man-months required would
be 120 at a cost of about US$1.3 million. The average man-month cost (based
on the individual fees, international travel, local allowances and overheads)
is expected to be about US$12,000. The total estimated cost also includes
provision for the cost of local travel and some other minor items. The
employment of these specialists, on terms and conditions and with qualifi-
cations and experience satisfactory to the Association, has been effected.
4.11      In addition, funds would be made available for in-service and
overseas training. Most of the training needs of the Project cannot be
formulated until the review and design work of the consultants have been
carried out.  In-service training would be for all levels of staff and would
be closely coordinated with the working of the consultants and the introduction
of new procedures and reporting systems. Overseas training would provide
selected staff with advanced study courses for their future operational needs
to cover the fields of agricultural credit, accounting, banking and management.
Annual Farm Inputs, Cash Advances and Other Farm Operations Costs (US$10.5 Million)
4.12      The Project would finance incremental annual farm inputs such as
seeds, sacks, fertilizers, insecticides and hand farm tools. Provision would



- 15 -
be made for operational costs of trucks and equipment. The items of signifi-
cant expenditure would be insecticides (US$1.0 million), seeds (US$0.7 million),
sacks (US$0.6 million), fertilizers (US$0.6 million), operation of trucks
(US$0.5 million), operation of irrigation equipment (US$1.6 million) and
spare parts for pumpsets, engines and tractors (U'S$2.7 million). Provision
has also been made for short-term cash advances from ABS to farmers in the
Umm Ruaba subproject area to induce timely and adequate labor inputs (US$2.5
million).
Incremental Headquarters and Branch Operating Costs (US$2.4 Million)
4.13      The Project would provide support for incremental costs, such as
salaries, vehicle expenses and building maintenance, of the Headquarters and
Branches resulting from the reorganization and strengthening of the operations
of ABS.
C. Project Costs
4.14      Total project cost is estimated at US$35.6 million inclusive of
import duties and other taxes. The foreign exchange component of US$18.0
million (51%) and import duties and other taxes are US$3.4 million (10%).
Estimated costs are summarized in Table 1. A further breakdown by credit
(61%) and institutional costs (39%) is shown in Annex 1, Table 1.
Table 1
LSd Million              US$ Million
Local  Foreign             Local  Foreign            % Foreign
Project Component          Costs  Exchange  Total   Costs  Exchange  Total  Exchange
Irrigation Equipment        1.3       3.0     4.3      1.6       3.8      5.4       70
Agricultural Machinery
and Equipment            0.1      O.4      0.5      0.1       0.5      0.6      83
4otor Vehicles              0.4       0.8      1.2     0.5       1.0      1.5       67
3uildings and Equipment   1.8         1.8      3.6     2.2       2.2      4.4       50
Technical Assistance
and Training             0.4       1.5     1.9      0.5       1.9      2.4      79
Farm Inputs and Farm
Operational Costs        4.7       3.7     8.4      5.9       4.6    10.5       44
Incremental ABS
Operating Costs          1.5      0.4      1.9      1.9       0.5      2.4      21
Total Baseline Costs       10.2      11.6    21.8    12.7       14.5    27.2        53
Physical Contingencies    0.3         0.3      0.6     0.4       0.4      0.8
Total Baseline Costs and
Physical Contingencies   10.5        11.9    22.4    13.1       14.9    28.0
.rice Contingencies         3.6       2.5      6.1     4.5       3.1      7.6
Total
Project Costs              14.1      14.4    28.5    17.6       18.0    35.6



- 16 -
4.15      Cost estimates are based on January 1981 prices.  A 10% physical
contingency has been provided on all institutional support expenditures but
not for subproject credit to farmers, staff costs and consultancy. Price
contingencies have been separately calculated for the foreign exchange and
the local currency components. Price contingencies used are summarized in
Table 2.
Table 2
1981   1982    1983   1984   1985
Foreign exchange component           9.0    8.5       7.5    7.5    7.5
Local currency component            22.5   17.5    12.5    8.5    7.0
Local labor and staff                8.0    8.0       7.5    7.0    5.0
4.16      A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$600,000 has been approved
to cover the estimated foreign exchange costs of (a) technical assistance and
training, US$450,000; (b) motor vehicles, US$80,000; (c) office equipment,
US$50,000; and (d) groundnut seeds for Abu Hamed, US$20,000.
D. Proposed Financing
4.17      Project costs would be shared as shown in Table 3.  The IDA Credit
of US$18 million would be used to finance the total foreign exchange cost.
The farmers' contribution of project costs represents farmers' deposits for
items bought on credit and those inputs purchased directly from ABS for
cash.
Table 3
Local   Foreign                % of
Cost    Exchange  Total   Total Cost 1/
------ US$ Million-----
ABS - Equity from GOS (IDA Credit)        -       3.8       3.8        11
- Grant from GOS (IDA Credit)        -        2.9       2.9        8
- Loan from GOS (IDA Credit)         -       11.3     11.3        32
- Equity from BOS                   8.7        -        8.7       24
- Internal Resources                5.1        -        5.1       14
Farmers' Contribution                   3.8        -        3.8        11
Total Project Cost                     17.6      18.0      35.6       100
1/   Including contingencies.
4.18      The proposed IDA Credit would be on standard terms to Government.
Government would make available to ABS out of the proceeds of the Credit
US$3.8 million as paid-up capital to meet the development of ABS' fixed
assets; US$2.9 million as a grant for technical assistance and US$11.3



- 17 -
million at an interest rate of 9.6% per annum which would be used for the
purchase of seasonal and capitai inputs for on-lending to the farmers.
The amounts on lent by Government to ABS would be repayable over 20 years
including a grace period of seven years. The execution of a subsidiary loan
agreement between Government and ABS, satisfactory to the Association, would
be a condition of credit effectiveness.
E. Procurement
4.19      Through the three branches, Umm Ruaba, Abu Hamed and Dongola, a
start has been made on the establishment of a reliable system for the supply
of seasonal and capital inputs. The system of procurement is based on
farmers choice. ABS would prepare tender documents and award contracts on
behalf of the farmers, while private dealers would import and distribute all
inputs, and service the equipment and machinery. Initially, the system would
be limited to pumpsets and tractors.
4.20      ABS would invite tenders through ICB based on minimum order quanti-
ties acceptable to suppliers. Assurances would be sought from suppliers on
servicing facilities within the Project areas. A3S would evaluate the ICB and
present the acceptable choices to the farmers for final selection. Farmers
would then be required to indicate their first and second choices in order to
aggregate orders to meet minimum order requiremenls of suppliers.  Suppliers
would be responsible, through their local agents, for importing, storing and
distributing the equipment, spare parts and field services. Contracts for
irrigation equipment would total US$5.4 million and agricultural machinery and
equipment US$0.6 million.
4.21      Contracts for supply of vehicles and office equipment exceeding
US$100,000 would be subject to ICB in accordance wgith World Bank guidelines.
The items would be aggregated in order to attract major contractors and
suppliers. Contracts less than US$100,000 and in aggregate totalling no more
than US$1,000,000 would be procured through local competitive bidding (LCB) in
accordance with the standard Government of Sudan procedures, which were
reviewed at appraisal and found acceptable to IDA. For contracts under
US$10,000, up to a total of US$200,000, comparative shopping or purchasing off
the shelf would be used. Local manufacturers wou:Ld qualify for 15% domestic
preference under ICB procurement.  Fertilizers, insecticides, sacks and
certified seed would be procured over the Project period of four years, using
normal existing procedures of the Government, which were reviewed at appraisal
and found acceptable to IDA, or other appropriate procedures, in consultation
with IDA. Only incremental quantities would be financed by IDA; these items
are purchased in bulk by Government.
4.22      Spare parts and fuel for existing pumps,, engines and tubewells
(US$4.3 million) and vehicles (US$1.4 million) wouild be purchased by quota-
tions from the manufacturers of the equipment, other reliable parts manufac-
turers and dealers, as appropriate.
4.23      Civil works would involve the erection of additional office space
and staff housing at Abu Hamed, Demazine, Dongola, Kassala and Umm Ruaba,
and additional office space at headquarters in Khartoum.  Stores would



- 18 -
also be built at Abu Hamed, Dilling, Kassala and Umm Ruaba.  Because of the
size and the dispersed nature of the works (US$4.0 million), all contracts
would be let under LCB, with the exception of the headquarters which would be
subject to ICB. Such works would qualify for a 7 1/2% domestic preference
under ICB. About 50% of the IDA Credit would be utilized through ICB.
4.24      The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of internationally recruited experts and consultants (US$2.4 million)
would be satisfactory to IDA.
F. Disbursement
4.25      The proceeds of the Credit to be disbursed over five years are
described in Table 4.
Table 4
Category                                Amount of Credit         % of Expenditure
Number        Goods or Services    Allocated (US$ Million)  to be Financed
1.      Agricultural Machinery                5.0             100% of foreign
and Irrigation Equipment                             expenditures
2.      Civil Works                           2.0             50% of total
expenditures
3.      Office and Stores Equipment           0.4             60% of total
expenditures
4.      Motor Vehicles                        1.1             100% of foreign
expenditures
5.      Technical Assistance                  2.0             100% of foreign
and Training                                         expenditures
6.      Incremental Annual Farm Inputs        5.0             50% of total
expenditures
7.      ABS Incremental Operating Costs    0.4                50% to 30% of
total expendi-
tures
8.      Refund of Project Preparation         0.6             100% of principal
Advance                                              amount and charges
outstanding at
Effectiveness date.
9.      Unallocated                           1.5
18.0



- 19 -
4.26      Disbursements would be fully documented.  Disbursements for incre-
mental annual farm inputs under category 6 would be based on the quantity
increase over the previous years  actual supplies by ABS in each subproject
area. Disbursements in Category 7 for incremental headquarters and branch
operating costs would be made against statements of expenditures. Supporting
documents would not be submitted for review but retained at ABS for inspection
by IDA supervision missions. These documents would be audited separately and
the audit report in English submitted to the Association within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. The Institution has adequate staff and controls
for the preparation of such statements of expenditure. A schedule of estimated
disbursements is shown in Annex 1 Table 2.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.27      The lack of timely, consistent, accurate, and complete accounting
information is a major problem for ABS. There is no standardization of
records or reports between the branches and headquarters. Consultants to be
employed, initially under the PPF, would investigate current procedures,
design and implement revised systems and provide oII the job staff training.
The audit of ABS is presently carried out by a private auditing firm appointed
by the Auditor General, but the standard of the auclit has been inadequate and
none of the major deficiencies have been highlighted in the report.
4.28      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that ABS would produce
consolidated accounts in English for all its assets and liabilities, together
with separate schedules to identify the transactions under the Project and
furnish them to the Association within four months of the end of the financial
year.
4.29      Because of the past deficiencies in the audit agreement was reached
at negotiations on the scope of the audit; assurances were also obtained that
ABS would appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Audited
accounts would be furnished, together with the auditors report, both in
English, to the Association within nine months of the end of the financial
year.
H. Environmental Effect
Crop Protection
4.30      All chemicals currently used on crops in Sudan, are tested for
compliance with prescribed specifications by residue analysis. All chemicals
are also subject to field tests and, if found acceptable, are registered by
the Pesticide Committee of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural
Resources (MAFNR), which controls the importation and use of pesticides.
4.31      Application would be done by manual spraying by farmers under direc-
tion and close observation of the ABS supervision team in collaboration with
the extension service, so that the risk of people being directly contaminated
is expected to be minimal. However, the extensive iuse of pesticides will



- 20 -
continue to pose long-term risks until safer alternative chemicals become
available at suitable costs. Meanwhile, it would not be profitable to
produce those cash crops without chemical pest control.
Health
4.32      Bilharzia is a problem in the irrigated subproject areas and, to
a lesser extent in the rainfed area. Malaria is found in all the subproject
areas. However, the project is not expected to exacerbate these diseases.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Agricultural Bank of Sudan
5.01      As described in Chapter III, ABS has hitherto relied on its non-
banking transactions to support its banking business. However, these non-
banking activities are no longer assured, partly due to the decline of foreign
supplier credits and with its small portfolio, ABS no longer has the turnover
to support its recently increased overhead. More importantly, to carry out
its primary objective of providing credit to small and medium cultivators,
ABS needs to expand its capability to reach more of the private farmers in
the rainfed and irrigated areas. ABS has in the past been able to profit
from available business opportunities, and with the increasing emphasis on
the private sector and contemplated transfer to ABS of a number of activities
from the parastatals, ABS should be strengthened and expanded into a finan-
cially viable institution. With this restructuring, ABS would be in a posi-
tion, by the end of the Project, to expand its catalytic role in promoting and
implementing subproject packages and other agricultural services, such as are
provided for in this Project, together with a capacity to undertake an increas-
ing volume of credit operations. It is important that the changes made to
achieve these goals be well thought out and planned. In order that this is
achieved in an orderly manner, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that ABS would consult with the Association before making any material revisions
to its "Credit Regulations - 1974" (para. 3.03) and its Establishing Act -
1957 (para. 3.04).
5.02      ABS has, over the years, built up a large multi-disciplined staff.
However, in order to achieve the restructuring of the Institution, it needs
the help of consultancy services to assist in the review, design and implemen-
tation of improved accounting and management information systems and other
specific studies.  The consultants would provide a team of five persons with
disciplines in accounting and management (including two who would be for
specific short-term assignments in procurement and farmer credit policies and
procedures). The consultancy would be for a period of two years and provide
72 man-months of assistance. The work plan for the consultancy would be based
on an initial three month period for identification; a three to six month
period for formulation of recommendations; and nine to fifteen month period
for assistance in implementing the agreed recommendations (Annex 3).



- 21 -
5.03      During the initial review period, the consultants would examine the
present headquarters and branch accounting procedures to identify current
deficiencies in accounts presentation and reporting procedures. The review
process would also examine the loan portfolio and prepare a realistic plan for
management action to recover outstanding debts. Based on these design recom-
mendations, ABS would subsequently submit to IDA proposals covering revisions
to the existing accounting systems and management reporting. During negotia-
tions, it was agreed that these proposals would be submitted to the
Association for review not later than September 30, 1982, and that the agreed
recommendations would thereafter be implemented, so as to be effective,
not later than September 30, 1983. The design of accounting and management
report systems would cover the entire pyramid of information flow with appro-
priate manuals of instruction for staff. Simplified budgetary control proce-
dures would be developed to address the deteriorating ratio of staff and
general expenses to the average loan portfolio. The design would provide for
the identification of the separate results for the various trading, non-banking
and banking activities so that policy decisions could be made in the future
concerning the emphasis and direction of ABS' business opportunities and
desired goals.
5.04      ABS would be the implementing agency for the subprojects and these
would be under the direct supervision of its Deputy Managing Director. A
reorganization has been proposed and work is already well advanced on changing
and improving staff functions. Branch operations would be strengthened by
staff transferred from Headquarters. Managerial span of control would be
reduced and responsibilities for branch supervision and support would be
defined (Annex 1, Chart 2). Further changes may be required as a result of
the review and design work of the consultancy. A reallocation of functions
between ABS Headquarters and its branches would shift the responsibility for
appraisal, supervision and collection of repetitive loans to the branches.
The allocation of functions is shown in Annex 4. This division of responsi-
bilities would, thereby, enable Headquarters to concentrate an overall lending
policy and procedure formulation, planning and allocation of credit to meet
national objectives, quality control, monitoring and evaluation and appraisal
of special loans. Most of the training needs of the Project cannot be formu-
lated until the review and design work of the consultants have been carried
out. However, it is envisaged that training would be concentrated on imple-
mentation of new procedures and, therefore, require considerable emphasis to
be given to on-the-job training. The Project provides limited assistance for
overseas training and would provide selected staff with advanced study
courses for specific related fields in agriculture, credit and banking
management.
5.05      It has not been possible to precisely determine the net worth of ABS
due to a number of potential liabilities and other financial and organizational
arrangements being outstanding. These issues were discussed and agreements
reached at negotiations and have subsequently been formalized. Other items
requiring more time have been agreed upon as conditions of effectiveness of
the Credit (para 5.09 and 5.10). Acceptable representations to the Association
have been made on the following matters:--



- 22 -
(a) During the last three years, ABS has incurred increased
foreign exchange liabilities on foreign supplier credits due
to devaluations of the Sudanese pound. Additionally, because
of foreign exchange shortages, BOS has delayed payments and
thus incurred interest payment liabilities for ABS.
In oder to relieve ABS from this liability BOS has agreed
to increase the authorized paid up capital (para 5.08) by
an amount which is more than sufficient to meet the
additional liabilities. In addition, BOS has indemnified ABS
from the interest liabilities arising from BOS's failure to
make foreign suppliers payments on due dates (para. 3.17).
(b) A German supplier credit for tractors for an amount equivalent
to LSd 3.4 million, subsequently converted to a grant to
Government and currently shown as a liability in the ABS'
balance sheet, has been converted to paid-up capital in ABS.
(c) In order to encourage resource mobilization, ABS has been
exempted from the ruling of the Central Bank prohibiting it
from having interest-bearing accounts in commercial banks or
in the Central Bank. Government has indicated that ABS would
be permitted to earn interest at least to the level of its
deposits from the public (para. 3.05).
(d) Under the Establishing Act, ABS is required to pay interest
at a rate of 3% on its paid-up capital. As at December 31,
1980, LSd 3,252,000 had been accrued but not paid. Cash flow
projections indicate that ABS would be unable to pay this
interest. Accordingly, ABS has been relieved of this liability
during the Project life and the outstanding amount accrued
would be transferred to capital reserve. In addition, ABS
would be relieved of any obligation to charge interest on its
paid-up capital during the Project life.
(e) Institutional developments in Umm Ruaba would include
establishment of additional cooperatives to increase the
numbers from 15 to 30 (averaging 200 farmers per cooperative).
ABS would take a leading role in ensuring that these
cooperatives are established and operated on sound, bankable
lines. Elected committees would assess creditworthiness and
certify the extent of areas cultivated. These committees would
require instruction in cooperative procedures, record keeping
and accounting. In order to assist the appraisal and
supervision teams at the Umm Ruaba Branch, two cooperative
officers have been employed by ABS.
5.06      The Credit Regulations - 1974 provide a comprehensive statement
of the terms, conditions and procedures for ABS lending. They specify in
considerable detail matters relating, for example, to security, eligibility,
interest rates, loan maturities (up to 15 months for seasonal credit and up to
five years for medium-term loans). Whilst these Regulations may merit further



- 23 -
review and revision, they provide adequate and acceptable rules and regulations
which would be applied to on-lending, particularly as Project funds are
designated for specific investments in three subproject areas, each of which
has been the subject of detailed appraisal. As already noted in para. 5.01.,
it would be agreed that the Credit Regulations would be changee only in
consultation with IDA.
5.07      With regard to overdues, ABS has insufficzient analysis  of the
ageing and understanding of the reasons for the arrears. Management report
forms oil loan portfolio and collections were designed at appraisal and are
now being introduced.  These would replace the current monthly reporting by
branches on collections and provide for a more detailed standardized quarterly
report. In addition to their other obligations, the consultants would review
the outstanding portfolio and make recommendations. During negotiations it
was agreed that not later than September 30, 1982, a plan of action for
the collection of outstanding debts (including a schedule for collection of
such dues) would be furnished to the Association for approval.
5.08      In the context of the amount of resources likely to be made avail-
able to ABS and the consequent level of turnover, ABS is forecast to have a
limited capacity to service debt during the next few years and at the same
time continue a moderate level of credit operations outside the subproject.
It is, therefore, necessary that the funds made available to ABS should
comprise an element of equity (against which dividiend payments can be made as
profits increase), grant capital as well as loan funds. Moreover, it is
appropriate that, in view of the institution building objectives of the
Project, US$3.8 million equivalent for the development of ABS fixed assets
should be represented by paid-up capital, and that US$2.9 million equivalent
for teclnical assistance be made as a grant.  The balance of US$11.3 million
equivalent for subproject lending would take the form of a 20-year loan,
including a seven-year grace period on capital repayments, bearing interest at
9.6% annually. These terms and conditions were agreed at negotiations and
would be incorporated in a subsidiary loan agreemenat between Government and
ABS, the execution of which would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(para. 4.18). It was further agreed at negotiatioins that Government would
ensure that ABS increase its authorized share capital to LSd 25 million by
December 31, 1982, and that BOS would subscribe LSd 7 million to paid-up
capital, half in 1982 and the balance during 1983.
5.09      Long outstanding unsettled accounts between ABS and Government
and its agencies cause considerable uncertainty to the true financial position
of ABS.  In March 1977 the Deputy Minister of Finance appointed a committee to
adjudicate on the claims of ABS concerning the old outstanding assets and
liabilities of the Institution. Although agreement was reached, the indebted
units did not meet their obligations. Due to delays, the figures would have
to be re-examined and an agreed basis of settlement satisfactory to the
Association, would be finalized by the revised amoants being paid over. The
resolution of these outstanding liabilities would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 3.16).



- 24 -
5.10      Although most of ABS  non-banking business has proved profitable,
losses are being incurred on the Government's silo operations (LSd 1.6 million
to December 31, 1979).  Whilst past obligations have been unclear, Government
decided that ABS responsibility should be limited to its management of the
silos. Accordingly an agreement, acceptable to the Association, governing ABS
management of the two silos at Gedaref and Port Sudan would be executed as a
condition of credit effectiveness (para 3.09).
5.11      Interest rates currently charged on loans to its borrowers have
been in the range of 7% to 9% per annum. With the rate of inflation in Sudan
being 20% per annum and estimated to decline to 10% over the next four years,
the current commercial rates are in the range of 12% to 16.5% and ABS poor
profitability prospects, it would be necessary for ABS to increase its rate
of interest for on-lending to its borrowers. It would be a condition of
credit effectiveness that ABS would raise its rate of interest (inclusive of
supervision and commitment fees), to no less than 14% per annum on all new
loans (paras. 3.03 and 3.19). At this level, ABS interest rates would
effectively conform with commercial bank rates and, while the rate would not
at current levels of inflation be positive, the increase represent a sub-
stantial move in this direction. Moreover, the proposed lending rate would
provide the Institution with a satisfactory margin over borrowing rate provid-
ing the projected debt/equity ratio was sustained at the envisaged level of
turnover (see para. 7.13). In addition, assurances were obtained that future
adjustments to interest rates would be made only after prior consultation and
agreement with the Association.
5.12      Ir s .mmary, as discussed in the preceding paragraphs, ABS is an
institution in the process of transition, in part brought about by the
economic difficulties which generally afflict the Sudan, imposing limits on
the scale of its activities and severely curtailing those for certain opera-
tions (e.g. tractor lending). In the past, ABS has been a limited provider
of credit and an important agent of Government in undertaking certain tasks:
in the future its credit operations, particularly for the small and medium
farmer, an important aspect of its mandate, should expand, either through
direct lending to farmers or on a subproject basis such as those the Project
would support. In either case the complementary services which ABS can
provide enhance its potential as an institution at least until such services,
either public or private can otherwise be effectively established. Apart
from the lending activities, the institutional aspects of the Project should
be successful in helping reshape ABS to meet these opportunities in the future,
by re-establishing its financial viability, restructuring its organization and
staffing and by building on its other services without which agriculture
credit in the Sudan cannot be successfully provided. Accordingly, a state-
ment of policy defining. ABS- future role was agreed at negotiations. In addi-
tion, an assurance was obtained that ABS would consult with the Association
whenever it proposes to amend its statement of policy in a manner that would
materially affect its objectives, operations or financial condition.
B. Subprojects
5.13      In the subproject areas, three new ABS branch offices would be built
and operations strengthened at Abu aiamed, Dongola and Umm Ruaba. Reporting



- 25 -
to the Branch Manager there would be three senior officers - an agricultur-
alist, an agricultural economist and a senior financial officer. In each of
the three branch offices, separate appraisal, supervision and collection
teams ccnsisting of an agriculturalist and an accotnts officer would report
to these senior officers.
5.14      In carrying out the Project, it would be necessary for certain
Government agencies to provide services without which lending operations
would be prejudiced. ABS would have overall responsibility for ensuring that
these services are provided by the concerned agencies on a timely basis:--
(a)  At Abu Hamed, the reintroduction of confectionery groundnuts
is the principal objective. New stocks of certified confec-
tionery groundnut seed would be imported. Research and field
trials on this crop have been carried out in recent years
but it is necessary that these be further developed in the
subproject area. The Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC)
has agreed to undertake field trials in ithe area and, with
selected farmers, the controlled multiplication of seed. During
negotiations an assurance was obtained to this effect;
(b)  At Dongola, there is a need to extend NWA's services to farmers
to improve technology for water extraction and provide ABS with
technical standards and specifications for tubewells (para.
2.15). During negotiations an assurance was obtained to this
effect; and
(c)  Also at Dongola, in the Selaim Basin the registration of land
titles remains to be completed. During negotiations cn assur-
ance was obtained that land registration would be completed by
December 31, 1983.
5.15      ABS would be responsible for procurement arrangements for irrigation
and agricultural equipment, taking into account farmer's preference; these
have been initiated. In addition, ABS would be responsible for distribu-
tion to cooperatives in the Umm Ruaba subproject area and to distributors in
Abu Hamed and Dongola. Adequate outlets exist and ABS has considerable expe-
rience of working with them. At Abu Hamed and Dongola, irrigation equipment
would be installed by local artisans who have considerable experience of this
work.
5.16      All crops to be grown under the subprojects, with the exception of
confectionery groundnuts in Abu Hamed, are now covered by marketing systems.
At Umm Ruaba, responsibility for both marketing and storage would rest with
the cooperatives whose capability would be extended by Project investments and
initially, would operate under the overall guidance of ABS. At Abu Hamed and
Dongola) crops other than confectionery groundnuts would continue to be
marketed through local traders. Storage facilities would be expanded under
the Project. As to confectionery groundnuts, inspection and marketing would
initially be arranged by ABS in conjunction with European agents and local
traders. The SOC marketing monopoly has now been withdrawn and the short sea
route to Europe, previously considered a constraint, is once again open.



- 26 -
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.17      The ABS Monitoring and Planning Section would be upgraded to a
Department and given the additional responsibility for preparation of new
projects. The Advisor to the Managing Director, provided under technical
assistance, would oversee the Department. In addition, the Department would
establish and maintain management information systems involving standardized
reporting for all branches. All the base statistical information on lending
operations by region, branch, crop and type of borrowers would be collated so
as to assist in planning for future lending in line with national and institu-
tional policies.
5.18      ABS would submit quarterly reports to IDA which would be designed
to measure rate and impact of implementation of the Project and these would
be submitted to the Association no later than two months after the completion
of the quarter. ABS would also prepare a Project completion report no later
than six months after the completion of the Project. Assurances were obtained
that these reporting procedures would be followed.
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production
Umm Ruaba
6.01      As a result of the increased availability of improved agricultural
inputs, provision of credit for inputs, farm labor and improved marketing
services, yields and production of the major crops in the Umm Ruaba sub-
project area are expected to change, by the end of year five (full develop-
ment), as shown in Table 5. Sesame and groundnuts would account for 90% of
the increased benefits of the subproject. Consistent data relating to the
subproject area is difficult to obtain and estimates of the without project
situation are based on data from the Umm Ruaba MAFNR office, modified by ABS
and farmers experience. Increases in yields and areas are based on the
judgement of the agricultural staff of MAFNR and ABS in the field and as
modified by the appraisal mission. The increases in area are supported by
the preliminary report of the ABS 1979 field survey of the ABS work in the
area commenced during the 1977/78 season.



- 27 -
Table 5
Cropped Areas, Yields and Production
Without Project   With Project   Incremental
Sesame
Area (fd)                           52,500              63,000         10,500
Yields (mt/fd)                       0.120              0.145           0.025
Production (mt)                      6,300              9,135           2,835
Mi:Llet
Area (fd)                           31,500             21,000         (10,500)
Yields (mt/fd)                       0.100              0.200           0.100
Production (mt)                      3,150              4,200          1,050
Sorghum
Area (fd)                           21,000             21,000             -
Yields (mt/fd)                       0.200              0.250          0.050
Production (mt)                      4,200              5,250          1,050
Groundnuts
Area (fd)                           10,500             21,000         10,500
Yields (mt/fd)                       0.260              0.390          0.130
Production (mt)                      2,730              8,190          5,460
Abu Hamed
6.02      As a result of the reintroduction of the production of confectionery
groundnuts as a cash crop, availability of irrigation equipment, improved
agricultural inputs, provision of credit and improved marketing services,
yields and production of the major crops in the subproject area are expected
to change, by the end of year five (full development), as shown in Table 6.
Confectionery groundnuts would account for over 80% of the increased benefits
of the subproject. Yields are based on levels achieved when confectionery
groundnuts were previously grown in the area.



- 28 -
Table 6
Cropped Areas, Yields and Production
Without Project  With Project    Incremental
Broad Beans
Area (fd)                          5,600             5,600
Yield (mt/fd)                      0.4              0.6               0.2
Production (mt)                    2,240             3,360            1,120
Wheat
Area (fd)                          2,800             2,800
Yield (mt/fd)                      0.4               0.8              0.4
Production (mt)                    1,120             2,240            1,120
Vegetables
Area (fd)                            700             1,400              700
Yield (mt/fd)                      1.5               2.0              0.5
Production (mt)                    1,050            2,800             1,750
Watermelon
Area (fd)                            700             1,400              700
Yield (mt/fd)                      1.5               1.8              0.3
Production (mt)                    1,050            2,520             1,470
Confectionery Groundnuts (In-Shell)
Area (fd)                            -               7,000            7,000
Yield (mt/fd)                                       1.5               1.5
Production (mt)                                    10,500           10,500
Dongola
6.03      As a result of the increased availability of irrigation equipment,
improved agricultural inputs and provision of credit, yields and production
of the major crops in the subproject area are expected to change, by the
end of Year five (full development), as shown in Table 7.  About two-thirds of
the benefits would accrue from beans and wheat as a result of increased yields
and area planted.  Over the last ten years agricultural production records
show a fluctuating yield performance and are influenced by fertilizer and
water availability and in the Selaim Basin by the flood level of the Nile and
degree of silt precipitation. Estimates of the without project situation are
based on an ABS field survey of November 1979, the records of the MAFNR and
ABS offices in Dongola. Increased yields and area are based on the judgement
of the agricultural staff of ABS and MAFNR as modified by the appraisal
mission.



- 29 -
Table 7
Cropped Areas, Yields and Production
Without Project  With Project    Incremental
Broad Beans
Area (fd)                          2,700            4,050             1,350
Yield (mt/fd)                      0.800             1.100            0.300
Production (mt)                    2,160            4,455             2,295
Wheat
Area (fd)                          2,400            3,600             1.200
Yield (mt/fd)                      0.800             1.100            0.300
Production (mt)                    1,920            3,960             2,040
Fennel
Area (fd)                            450              750               300
Yield (mt/fd)                      0.600            0.900             0.300
Production (mt)                      270              675               405
Vegetables
Area (fd)                            750              900               150
Yield (mtlfd)                      2.000            3.000             1.000
Production (mt)                    1,500            2,700             1,200
6.04      Between project inception and full development, a gradual build
up of yields and production has been assumed. This reflects the availability
of improved agricultural inputs and farmer participation in the subproject
areas. Currently farmers neglect their crops by seeking off farm work in
order to earn cash for daily living necessities. Since the Project would
provide short term cash advances for farm labor in Umm Ruaba, the farmers
would gradually be able to devote more time to farming and thus improve
production and yields through proper care of the crops. In Abu Hamed, the
increased production reflects provision of new and replacement irrigation
equipment, agricultural machinery, fertilizer and improved seed, as well as
reintroduction of confectionery groundnuts which will considerably change
cropping patterns. In Dongola increased production reflects provision of new
and replacement irrigation equipment and improved agricultural inputs.
B. Marketing
6.05      All crops are currently marketed through private traders, and in the
Umm Ruaba subproject area farmers are completely tied to the traders because
of the sheil credit system. The provision of storages and credit will release
their dependence on the current system and give the farmer more choice as to
time of sale, although the traders would still continaue to be the marketing
channel for the farmers output.



- 30 -
C. Prices
6.06      Groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic are important sources of foreign
exchange for Sudan and in total contribute about 25% of all exports.
The reintroduction of confectionery groundnuts would provide an additional
source of foreign exchange. Incremental wheat production would reduce imports.
The prices used in the financial projections for these crops have been derived
on an export or import parity basis using World Bank projected prices and,
where these are not available, they have been taken on quoted world market or
local prices for like produce.
6.07      Other crops, fruits and vegetables would be used almost exclusively
for home consumption. 1980 local market prices have been used.
6.08      A summary of prices used is given in Annex 1, Table 3.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The Project would increase production, for export and domestic
consumption of grains, groundnuts, gum arabic, sesame, fruit and vegetables
(paras 6.01-6.03). Based on projected export and import parity prices,
this incremental production would result in gross foreign earnings or gross
savings in respect of import substitution of about US$14 million per year at
full development. Allowing for the foreign exchange component of operating
costs, net foreign exchange earnings would be about US$12 million a year.
7.02      In Umm Ruaba average farm returns, after repaying loans extended
by ABS but before valuing the farm family labor, would increase from LSd 607
to LSd 960 or about US$171 per capita at full development (Annex 1, Table 4).
The major beneficiaries would be about 6,000 farm families grouped into 30
cooperatives.
7.03      In Dongola average farm returns, after repaying loans extended by
ABS but before valuing the farm family labor, would increase from LSd 814
to LSd 1,863 or about US$233 per capita at full development (Annex 1,
Table 4). The major beneficiaries would be 1,500 farm families.
7.04      The major beneficiaries in the Abu Hamed area would be about 1,000
pumpowners/landholders and 6,000 sharecroppers. Reintroduction of confec-
tionery groundnuts would have a significant effect on the farm household
income as well as on the income of sharecroppers, rising from LSd 34 to LSd
184 or US$230 per capita at full development for the sharecroppers and from
LSd 122 to LSd 272 or US$340 per capita for the farm families (Annex 1, Table
4). Farm family per capita income is higher than that of sharecroppers
because they receive the benefits of date palm cultivation which do not accrue
to the sharecroppers.



- 31 -
7.05      The absolute poverty level of income in Sudan is US$80 per capita,
whilst the relative poverty level is US$100. The employment impact in Umm
Ruaba would be an increase of farm family labor of about 0.9 million man-days,
in Abu Hamed 0.9 million man-days and in Dongola 0.3 million man-days. Addi-
tional unquantifiable off-farm employment would be created to handle distribu-
tion of inputs and incremental production.
7.06      The Project would provide the institutional strengthening of ABS
this placing it in a position to develop its future lending through all of its
branches on a basis which would be governed by effective banking policies
and procedures (see paras. 7.13 and 7.14).
Economic Rates of Return
7.07      The economic rate of return for the Project is estimated to be 33%.
Individual economic rates of return for the subprojects arC estimated to be -
Abu Hamed 38%, Dongola 17% and Umm Ruaba 42%.
7.08      The main assumptions used in the economic analysis were:
(a) Project Life. The economic life of the project is assumed to
be ten years from time of farmer participation.
(b) Rate of Exchange. The parallel rate of exchange (US$1 = LSd 0.8)
was used for all conversions.
(c)  Prices.  Border prices for traded items were derived on an export
or import parity using World Bank projected prices and where not
available, on quoted world market or local prices. Non-traded
items were converted to border prices expressed in local currency
by applying a standard conversion factor of 0.7, reflecting a
shadow rate of exchange of US$1 = LSd 1.15.
(d) Farm Labor. The going market wage rate of LSd 1 per day was
applied to all hired and farm family labor.
(e) Farmer Participation Rates. The participation rates for the three
subprojects reflect the fact that in Umm Ruaba several cooperatives
are already formed and are borrowing from ABS. The cumulative
participation rates used are shown in Table 8:



- 32 -
Table 8
Cumulative Farmer Participation Rates
Years                Umm Ruaba       Abu Hamed and Dongola
1                     25%                 10%
2                     50%                 40%
3                     75%                  70%
4-10                   100%                 100%
Sensitivity Analysis and Risk
7.09      In order to determine which variables would be most crucial to
the Project's success, sensitivity analysis was carried out using crossover
values, at a discount rate of 10%. The results are presented in Annex 1,
Table 5, which shows that the project rate of return is moderately resistant
to adverse movements on the variables. It is, however, more sensitive to
reduced benefits than increased costs.
7.10      In Umm Ruaba, an across the board reduction of 26% in total benefits
would have to take place before the rate of return would drop below the
discount rate of 10%, and a 53% reduction in sesame benefits would be needed
before this would occur on a single crop basis. Sesame accounts for half the
benefits in this subproject. The Umm Ruaba subproject implementation does not
call for signif4sant technological improvements and, therefore, a large
reduction in benefits is unlikely.
7.11      In Abu Hamed, the majority of the benefits of the subproject are
achieved by reintroduction of the cash crop of confectionery groundnuts. The
subproject is, therefore, sensitive to area planted, yield, price and delay
in benefits. A 39% reduction in benefits resulting from a combination of area
planted, yield and price would be needed to take the return below the discount
rate of 10%.
7.12      In Dongola a movement in total benefits (13%) and costs (15%) is
required to reduce the rate of return below the discount rate of 10%. However,
benefits are derived from several crops and therefore the subproject is
resistant to single crop fluctuations. Broad beans would require a 38% drop
in benefits and wheat 40%.
ABS Financial Forecasts
7.13      Forecast Balance Sheet, Income Statements and Cash Flows are given
in Annex 1, Tables 6 to 8 and their underlying assumptions, incorporating the
recommendations outlined in Chapter V, are detailed in Annex 5. ABS staff and
general expenses are currently 17% of its average loan portfolio and bad debt
losses may exceed another 8%. By contrast, ABS presently has a spread of
only 5% on its loans, average interest rate of 8% less 3% interest cost
on capital. Trading profits from inventoried farm machinery and brokerage



- 33 -
dealings on grains enabled ABS to avoid a large loss in 1979. However, with
inventories now depleted and prospects of other trading patchy, losses of
about LSd 1 million per annum are forecast in 1980 through 1982. On the basis
of the assumptions concerning interest rates, subproject implementation, loan
repayments and other trading income, income from loan interest should more
than triple and ABS return to profitability by 1984/1985.  By that year income
from ABS lending would constitute about 75% of its total compared with about
45% at the present time. By 1984/1985 the 4.4% margin between ABS borrowings
(9.6%) and its lending rate (14%) would be sufficient to provide the Institu-
tion with a modest level of profitability providing the projected debt/equity
ratio (0.4/1) and the level of expenditures were rmaintained. However, these
ratios and net income levels are based on a conservative estimate of ABS'
trading income and non-project activities which could well increase and which
would improve the Institution's overall financial position.  Failure to
restructure ABS will lead to a period of increasing losses, unless it is able
Mo raise additional income fron non-banking business.
7.14      The subscribing of the outstanding authorized share capital in 1982
and 1983 will provide the additional funds necessary to maintain the present
non-project lending and at the same time allow for sufficient local currency
funds for the implementation of the subprojects. By 1985, the Institution
wiould have achieved a much stronger financial base and be in a position to
assume a larger level of business.
VIII.  RECOMIMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from ABS that:
(a) ABS would employ an internationally recruited Advisor to the
Managing Director with qualifications and experience and
on terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association not later than January 31, 1982 (para 4.09);
(b) ABS would produce consolidated accounts in English for all
its assets and liabilities, together wit'h separate schedules
to identify the transactions under the Project and furnish
them to the Association within four monthis of the end of the
financial year (para 4.28);
(c) ABS would appoint independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and the audited accounts wou:Ld be furnished,
together with the auditor's report, both in English, to the
Association within nine months of the end of the financial
year (para 4.29);
(d) ABS would inform the Association whenever it proposes to
make any material revisions to its Credil: Regulations -
1974 sufficiently in advance to give the Association
the opportunity to comment thereon (para 5.01);



- 34 -
(e)  ABS would furnish to the Association its proposals for
implementation of the recommendations made by the consultants
not later than September 30, 1982, and thereafter implement
the agreed recommendations in consultation with the Association,
so as to be effective, not later than Septebmer 30, 1983
(para 5.03);
(f)  ABS would furnish for approval of the Association not later
than September 30, 1982, a plan of action for collection of
outstanding debts (including a schedule for collection of
such dues)(para 5.07);
(g)  ABS would make adjustments to interest rates on to its
borrowers only after prior consultation and with approval of
the Association (para 5.11);
(h)  ABS would consult with the Association whenever it proposes
to amend its statement of policy in a manner that would
materially affect its objectives, operations or financial
condition (para 5.12); and
(i)  ABS would furnish, during the project implementation period,
a quarterly progress report, not later than two months after
the expiry of each quarter, and a Project Completion Report
within six months after completion of the Project (para 5.18).
8.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a)  Government would consult with the Association whenever it
proposes to make any material amendment to the ABS Establishing
Act of 1957 (para 5.01);
(b)  Government would relieve ABS of any obligation to pay interest
on its paid-up capital during the project life (para 5.05(d));
(c)  Government would make available to ABS out of the proceeds of
the Credit, US$3.8 million equivalent as paid-up capital to
meet the develoment of ABS fixed assets; US$2.9 million equivalent
to ABS as a grant for technical assistance and US$11.3 million
equivalent as a 20-year loan, including a seven-year grace period
at an interest rate of 9.6% per annum (para 5.08);
(d)  Government would ensure that ABS increases its authorized share
capital to LSd 25 million by December 31, 1982 (para 5.08);
(e)  BOS would subscribe LSd 7.0 million of the authorized share
capital, LSd 3.5 million by December 31, 1982, and the
remaining balance of LSd 3.5 million by December 31, 1983
(para 5.08);



- 35 -
(f) ARC would undertake field trials on confectionery groundnut
seed in the Abu Hamed area and, together with selected farmers,
the controlled multiplication of seed (para 5.14 (a));
(g) NWA would extend facilities and services to farmers in the
Dongola area for improved technology for water extraction and
provide ABS with technical standards and specifications for
tubewells (para 5.14 (b)); and
(h) Registration of land titles for tenants in the Selaim Basin
would be completed not later than December 31, 1983 (para 5.14 (c)).
8.03      Conditions of Credit effectivenss are:
(a)  Subsidiary loan agreement between Government and ABS, satisfactory
to the Association, had been ratified (para 4.18);
(b) ABS, Government and its agencies would resolve in a manner
satisfactory to the Association long outstanding unsettled
accounts on the basis of the March 1977 agreement. The
figures would be re-examined and the revised amounts paid
over (para 5.09);
(c) Government would conclude a Management Agreement with ABS,
acceptable to the Association, for the operation of the two
silos at Gedaref and Port Sudan respectively (para 5.10); and
(d) ABS had increased the sum of its interest charges, supervision
and commitment fees to not less than 14% per annum on all new
loans (para 5.11);
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed Project is
suitable for an IDA Credit on standard terms of US$18.0 million. The Borrower
would be the Government of Sudan.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Chart 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN
Existing Organization Chart
(With Staff Numbers as of December 31, 1979)
Board of  riectors (10) 
Internal Audit (15)
MMairman an,      Manag  rector
Deputy Managing Dirtetor                    S
L sManager
Purchases  Per l  1  tPlanning and
_   Follow-up
**Section                (13)                     (15)Branche
Manager,                 Manager,                 Manager,                 2 Manager,cl                                           DrteaorL s
Credit ~~~Financial                    Administration    l      ranches and Silos       L        e       g       a       l      sAd
Department               Department               Department               Department                 Sec
(10)~~~~~~~
Services                                       and MethhFinancial
Loan-                                                2         l                      i                                            Advisor
_                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Manager,
M nManaging
Collections         _    Accounts           __     Internal           _      omril|_                                            Director's
l(19)             _          (46)                 Management                                     |                                     rnhs|Office
Serice   Buand      l                                     1 Training  2                                         Of2Silos lc
Storage                    (3)     I         I              I
(7)
|   |   |                                                                    4   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secretariat |
Engineering
Services
(2)
Board           |
Secretary        |
Unit                                         Employees
Staff               Laborers            Total
Head Office                 213                     78                291
Branches                    232                   196                 428
Silos                        49                   245                 294
TOTAL                       494                   519               1,013
World Bank - 22240



SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN
Proposed Organization Chart
Boad of Dirrctors 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
rher  SoutDeputy
. Manging Directo,
|Assist. Managmng Di-etor                                        Mo |  " Asis  Managin                                               Manet  g D|eco            T/AF, -
nod OEpastt d C a                                                    Pnd Pllnn ang    nn            A dpptra Se-iain al                                            Ad giar
FAuditing             eeiosi.giii                                                                     edEcaluatinro           natsnDprmn                              Departent            De atmt                  Leagimn
Dntarrnt             eatmn                eprmnt             Departme nt                               Department           D     rP-n                                                           -"               ep" n
Section               Sction              Setonilo
l                            ~~~~~~~~~~Gedariff
Dep6ty        ~Dongola             Khartoum              Dillin                                      ng                                       S ervic             Marketing             Budget                 ept
eputy                Proch              Krartournch           Branch                                                                               SeMtion                                   Section
Gedarif              Sennar                                                                                               I raining SecPinP    Sudan                  CDn l
_   Kosdmi                                                                                                     _              Silos S
Section
Abu Hamed             Medani               Nyala                              P|oll  -p          || Organi-ution
l j   l   l  Section               j   eand Method                                Commercial
Atbara               Wau               Umm Ruba
I I   I     Evalu ation            j      Inteal
Shendi'              Jaba               Zuigei                                     Section                               lDepartment
K.-I.                                                                      Pulbl,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- a
K a s s a l  |   R e l a t i o n is                     Po B    n    2
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Haf



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Credit and Institutional Costs
(US$ Million) 1/
Total Cost       Foreign Exchange
Amount      %      Amount      %
On Farm Costs
Abu Hamed                               9.6      27        6.2       34
Umm Ruaba                               5.7      16        1.2        7
Dongola                                 6.4      18        3.9       22
21.7      61       11.3       63
Institutional Support
ABS Headquarters                        4.9      14        3.2       18
Subproject Branch Offices:
Abu Hamed                         1.5        4        0.5        3
Umm Ruaba                         2.5        7        0.9        5
Dongola                           0.6        2        0.3        1
Other Branch  ftHices                   4.4      12        1.8       Il
35.6     100       18.0      10C
1/   Including contingencies.



- 39 -
Annex 1
Table 2
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA Disbursements-
-------US$ lo00       
IDA Fiscal
Year         Quarter Ended                  By End of Quarter  Cumulative
1982       March      1982                       600               600
June      1982                        100              700
1983       September 1982                        100               800
December  1982                       400             1,200
March     1983                       800             2,000
June      1983                     l,OO              3,000
1984       September 1983                      1,000             4,000
December  1983                     1,200             5,200
March     1984                     1,5,00            6,700
June      1984                     1,3,00            8,000
1985       September 1984                      1,100             9,100
December  1984                     1,200            10,300
March     1985                     1,400            11,700
June      1985                     1,200            12,900
1986       September 1985                      1,200           14,100
December  1985                     1,200            15,300
l4arcn    1986                     1,200            16,500
June      1986                       800            17,300
1987       September 1986                        700            18,000
1/   Expected date of signing         -  December 1981
Expected date of effectiveness  -  March    1982
Expected completion date         -  September 1985
Expected closing date            -  September 1986



SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Farmgate Crop Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analyses
(LSd/ton - 1980 Constant Prices)
1980                    1982                  1990-92
Financial   Economic   Financial   Economic   Financial   Economic
Umm Ruaba
Sorghum                            82         137          86          147          96          154
Groundnut (for oil)               120         203         180          288         158          258
Sesame 2/                         386         582         same as for 1980 1/    same as for 1980 1/
Millet                            133           93           "      "   "I           to  f  "   o
Karkadeh 2/                       600         420           "  "   "   "             "           if
Gum Arabic 2/                     244         171           "  "   "   "             "  "   "   "
Goats/Sheep (LSd/head)-            14          10           "  "   "   "             "  "   "   "
Cattle (LSd/head)                 150         105           t  "   "   "             "  "   "   "I
Abu Hamed
Wheat                             195          179        222          204         239          220  3/
Beans                             300         210         same as for 1980 1/    same as for 1980 1/
Vegetable                         250         175           It of  o f               "       It " t
Groundnutnut (confectionery)    254           376       '        i   i   it       .. ..
Date Palm                         250         175            "  t   it  of "   "     "           i
Watermelon                        120          84           "  "   "   if
Dongola
Wheat                             195         179         222          204         239          220  3/
Beans                             300         210         same as for 1980 1/    same as for 1980 1/
Fennel                            900         630           "I i   i   If f" if "            t  if
Onions                            200         140             it "   "               "  "   "   "
Fenugreek                         300         210           "  "   "   "i "   "                  of
Goats/Sheep (LSd/head)             20          14           "  "   "   "I "   " t
Cattle (LSd/head)                 150         105            "  "   "   "            "  "   "   "
*  Measured in border prices.
1/ Forecast prices not available; therefore, it is assumed
that these prices will vary according to international                                                            LO
inflation rates.
2/ Sesame, Karkadeh and Gum Arabic prices increased by 5%
with project to reflect holding of crops in store for
better market prices.
3/ Applicable 1985 through 1992.



- 41 -
Annex 1
Table 4
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Farm Incomes 1/
Umm Ruaba
Without Full Dev-
Project  elopment   Incremental
---------- LSd ------------
Returns
Gross Returns LSd/farm                        796      1,280          484
Production Costs LSd/farm                      44        240          196
Before Financing LSd/farm                     752      1,040          288
Debt Service LSd/farm                         145         80          (65)
Income before Labor                           607        960          353
Labor
Input  Md/farm                                690        842          152
Average Returns LSd/md                          0.88       1.14         2.32
Income (excluding labor) LSd/farm             607        960         353
Average Numbers - household                     7          7            7
Per Capita Income - LSd                        87        137           50
- US$                      109       171           62
1/   Summarized from Farm Cash Flow Projections
(Annex 11,Appendix 3 Tables 1 to 3 of
the Implementation Volume).



- 42 -
Annex 1
Table 4
Page 2
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Farm Incomes 1/
2/
Abu Hamed-/
Without Full Dev-
Project  elopment Incremental
----------- LSd -----------
Returns
Gross Returns LSd/farm                       1,561      4,348     2,787
Production Costs LSd/farm                      550      1,471       921
Before Financing LSd/farm                    1,011      2,877     1,866
Debt Service LSd/farm                           74        139        65
Income before Labor                            937      2,738     1,801
Labor
Input Md/farm                                  525      1,180       655
Average Returns LSd/md                        1.78       2.32      2.75
Income (excluding labor) LSd/farm              937     2,738      1,801
Less:  Date Palm                               525        525       -
Subtotal                                  412     2,213      1,801
Sharecroppers' Share (50% of total)            206      1,106       900
Average No. Sharecroppers per farm               6          6         6
Sharecropper per Capita Income - LSd            34        184       150
- US$          43        230        187
Farmers' Share                                 206      1,106       901
Add back Date Palm                             525        525        -
Subtotal                                  731     1,631        901
Average No. per household                        6          6         6
Farm Family per Capita - LSd                   122        272       150
- US$                  152       340        188
- of which date
palm is              109       109         -
1/   Summarized from Farm Cash Flow Projections
(Annex l, Appendix 3 Tables 1 to 3 of the Implementation Volume).
2/   Date Palm is deducted from total income because benefits accrue only
to farm families and not to sharecroppers.



- 43 -
Annex 1
Table 4
Page 3
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Farm Incomes 1/
Dongola-/
Without Full Dev-
Project  elopment Incremental
------ LSd -------------
Returns
Gross Returns LSd/farm                       1,255     2,503      1,248
Production Costs LSd/farm                      382       578        196
Before Financing LSd/farm                      873     1,925      1,052
Debt Service LSd/farm                           519       62          3
Income before Labor                            814     1,863      1,049
Labor
Input Md/farm                                  557       735        178
Average Returns LSd/md                           1.46       2.53      5.89
Income (excluding labor) LSd/farm              814     1,863      1,049
Average Numbers - household                     10         10        10
Per Capita Income - LSd                         81        186       105
- US$                       1C02       233       131
1/   Summarized from Farm Cash Flow Projections
(Annex 11, Appendix 3 Tables 1 to 3 of
the Implementation Volume).
2/   Based on a 10 feddan unit of allotment.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Table 5
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Variable                         Appraisal Value   Crossover Value-/ % Change
-----------LSd Millions----------
Costs
Umm Ruaba                            12.2               16.4           +34
Abu Hamed                            14.8               21.5           +45
Dongola                               5.5                6.3           +15
Benefits
Umm Ruaba                            16.4               12.2           -26
Abu Hamed                            21.5               14.8           -31
Dongola                               6.3                5.5           -13
Benefits - Main Crzps
Umm Ruaba - Sesame                    7.9               3.7            -53
- Groundnuts               6.4                2.2            -66
Abu Hamed - Confectionery
Groundnuts              17.4               10.7            -39
Dongola   - Broad Beans               2.1                1.3           -38
- Wheat                    2.0                1.2            -40
1/   Value of variable for which net present value is zero at discount
rate of 10%.



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Table 6
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN
Forecast Balance Sheets (1980-85) 1/
(LSd '000)
Actual    Actual
1978      1979       1980      1981       1982       1983      1984       1985
ASSETS
Cash                         3,098      2,269      3,945     5,792      4,831     3,792      1,794        367
Inventories                  4,067      8,641 2/  2,000      1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000
Private debtors                798        515        800       800        800        800       800        800
Public debtors               7,860      7,922      8,000     1,000      1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000
Active loan portfolio       12,241    11,666    10,966       9,066    13,400    19,130    24,773    29,835
Less:  Provision           ( 1,000)  ( 1,103)  ( 1,206)  (   636)  ( 1,256)  ( 1,916)  ( 2,486)  ( 2,986)
Net fixed assets             1,525      1,620      1,700     1,700      3,544     6,298      5,910      5,837
Total Assets             28,589    31,530    26,205    18,722    23,319    30,104    32,791    35L853
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Accounts payable                227       182        200       200        200        200       200        200
Unconsolidated branches         880       350        350       350        350        350       350        350
Liabilities to public
sector                    6,298      5,818     6,000      1,000      1,000     1,000      1,000     1,000
Interest on capital          2,712      2,982      3,252       -          -          -         -          -
Foreign supplier credits    7,340       6,802      2,549     1,699        849        -         -          -
Borrowings (IDA Funds)          -         -          -          -       1,661     4,532      6,900      9,059
Mortgage on grain stocks        -       4,062        -          -         -          -         -          -
Total Liabilities        17,457    20,196    12,351       3,249      4,060     6,082      8,450    10,609
Paid-up capital 3/           9,000      9,000    12,403    12,403    17,203    22,010    22,154    22,451
Capital Reserve                 -         -          -       3,252      3,252      3,252     3,252      3,252
Reserves; retained
earnings                  2,132      2,334      1,451   (   182)  ( 1,196)  ( 1,240)  ( 1,065)  (   459)
Total Equity             11,132    11,334    13,854    15,473    19,259    24,022    24,341    25,244
Total Liabilities and
Equity                28,589    31,530    26,205    18,722    23,319    30,104    32,791    35,853
Term debt/equity:            0.7/1      1.0/1      0.2/1     0.1/1      0.2/1      0,211     0.3/1      0.411
1/  Excluding silos and commercial branches.
2/ Includes LSd 6,013,000 of grain stocks held for export.
3/ In 1980 LSd 3.4 million from conversion of a German supplier
credit into paid-up capital. Other conversions to paid-up
capital are IDA funds for development of fixed assets.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Table 7
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN
Forecast Income Statements (1980-1985) 1/
(LSd '000)
Actual    Actual
1978      1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984   1985
INCOME
Trading commissions              453        828     400      450      610     840      760    790
Interest on loans                857      1,141     900      942   1,463   2,251   3,073  3,823
Other (storage, etc.)            395        575     550      380      418     460      505    555
Total Income                1,705     2,544   1,850   1,772   2,491   3,551   4,338  5,168
EXPENSES
Staff costs                    1,031      1,614   1,500   2,007   2,185   2,207   2,123  2,064
General expenses                 251        406     447      491      540     594      654    720
Less:  Grant for foreign
operating expenses       -          -        -    (  432) (  581) (  608) (  442) ( 230)
Interest on capital              270        270     270      -        -       -        -      -
Interest on borrowings            40        -       223      159      176     329      549    766
Depreciation                      62        163     170      180      195     393      689    722
Other expenses                     3         45       20      20       20      20       20      20
Bad debt provision                97        103     103      630      620     660      570    500
Total Expenses              1,754     2,601   2,733   3,055   3,155   3,595   4,163  4,562
Profit (loss) before
extraordinary items         (   49)   (   57) (  883) (1,283) (  664) (   44)    175    606
Extraordinary gain (loss) 2|(  200)         259     -    (  350) (  350)       -         -     -
NET PROFIT (LOSS)              ( 249)       202  (  883) (1,633) (1,014) (   44)    175    606
Staff and general expenses
as % of average loan
portfolio
- including grant-
financed expenses            11        17       17       25      24       17      13      10
- excluding grant-
financed expenses            11        17       17      21       19       13      11       9
1/   Excluding silos and commercial branches.
2/   A LSd 200,000 provision for losses on silos in 1979 and LSd 259,000
accumulated profits on Dongola Banking branch since it commenced business.
No similar figures are available for Zalingei which is understood
to be making small losses. Exchange losses of LSd 350,000 are included
for 1981 and 1982.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Table 8
SUDAN-
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN
Forecast Cash Flows (1980-1985) 1/
(LSd '000)
Actual   Actual
1978     1979      1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Sources of Funds
Net profit (loss)             (  249)       202   (  883) (1,633) (1,014) (   44)    175         606
Bad debt provision                 97       103      103      6:30     620      660      570     500
Depreciation                       62       163      170      18B0     195      393      689     722
Loan collections                6,188    6,834    7,000   7,000   4,835   6,465   8,148  10,623
Conversion to paid-up
Capital 2/                     -         -       3,403      -      1,300   1,307      144      297
Borrowings (IDA Funds)            -        -         -        -      1,661   2,871   2,368   2,159
Mortgage on grain stocks          -      4,062                         -        -        -       -
Payment of capital               -           -       -        -      3,500   3,500      -
Increase in current
liabilities                 2,118   (  785)       470  (5,000)    -         -        -
Total Sources               8,216   10,579   10,263   1,177  11,097  15,152  12,094  14,907
Uses of Funds
Capital expenditures              202      258       250      180   2,039   3,147       301      649
Loan disbursements             6,804    6,259    6,300   6,300   9,169  12,195  13,791  15,685
Repayment to suppliers           -         538    4,253       850      850      849     -        -
Repayment of grain mortgage    -           -       4,062      -        -        -       -
Increase in other
non-cash assets             1,611    4,353  ( 6,278) (8,000)    -           -        -
Increase in cash              (  401)    (829)   1,676   1,847  (  961) (1,039) (1,998) (1,427)
Total Uses                  8,216   10,579   10,263   1,177  11,097  15,152  12,094  14,907
1/   Excluding silos and commercial branches.
2/   LSd 3.4 million in 1980 represents conversion of a German supplier credit
into paid-up capital. Other conversions to paid-up capital are IDA funds for development
of fixed assets.



SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Total Project:  Forecast Economic Costs and Benefits
Constant Prices
(LSd '000)
1         2          3          4          5          6          7         8           9         10         11         12         13
Incremental Benefits
Abu 'damed                                 -          482      1,839     3,398      4,861      4,861      4,861      4,861      4,861    4,865       4,395      2,928      1,468
Dongola                                    -          132       550        968      1,395      1,395      1,395      1,395      1,395    1,441       1,360        937        426
Uam Ruaba                                  -          898     1.797      2.695      3.594      3.594      3.594      3.594      3.594    3.594       2.695      1.797        899
-       1.512      4.186      7.061      9.850     9.850      9.850      9.850      9.850    9.900       8,450      5.662       2.793
Incremental Costs
(including Branch and Percentage
of Headquarters Costs)
Abu Hamed                                1,057      2,281     2,340      2,808      2,298      2,298      2,298      2,298      2,298    2,298       2,082      1,435        787
Dongola                                    587     1,320      1,016        987        667        667        667        667        667       667        608        432        256
Umm Ruaba                                  999     1.697      1.604      2,075      2,065      2.065      2.065      2,065      2,065    2.065       1.589      1,113        636
2,643     5.298      4.960      5.870      5.030      5,030      5,030      5.030      5.030    5,030       4.279      2.980      1,679
NET BENEFITS (Costs)                       (2,643)   (3,786)   ( 774)    1,191         4,820      4,820      4,820      4,820      4,820    4,870       4,171      2,682      1,114
Economic Rate of Return - 33%.
e -



- 49 -
ANNEX 2
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
ABS - Unsettled Assets and Liabilities
December 31, 1979
ABS Asset Accounts                                                 LSd -000
(i) Loans granted by the Ministry of Financet before
1959 and transferred to ABS with a government
guarantee as part of Government's contribution
to ABS's capital: LSd 773,000 less LSd 539,000
provision against accrued interest.                         234
(ii)  Loans disbursed by ABS before 1968 to private
cotton schemes then nationalized. LSd 4.8 mil-
lion less LSd 1.3 million interest provision.             3,468
(iii)  Accounts receivable from various government
Ministries and agencies, some dating back
more than a decade.                                       4,101
TOTAL                             7,803
ABS Liability Accounts
(i)  Interest on capital due to the Bank of Sudan              2,982
(ii) Accounts payable to various government Ministries
and agencies, some of which may be offset against
accounts receivable.                                      5,632
TOTAL                             8,614
Potential Liabilities Not Appearing in ABS Accounts
(i) Accumulated losses on silos of LSd 1.6 million
due to large non-cash charges for deprecia-
tion (LSd 2.2 million) and accrued interest
not yet paid on the Russian loan (LSd 0.8 mil-
lion).  Unclear whether Government or ABS is
responsible for silo ownership, and for the
Russian loan liability.  Less LSd 200,000
provision for loss in ABS account.                        1,377
(ii)  Amounts potentially due to Ministry of Finance   (Amounts not avail-
for Business Profits Tax.  ABS claims it is not   able to IDA mission,
subject to this tax.                                 but likely to be
small in relation
to other accounts
listed above.)



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - TERMS OF REFERENCE
A. Advisor to Managing Director
Responsible to:      Managing Director.
Duration:            48 months.
Qualifications:      University degree in economics.  Related experience in
agriculture or banking, with direct involvement in
monitoring and evaluation duties.
Duties and Responsibilities:
-    Identification of potential areas for development and to advise
the Managing Director on new projects to be developed with special
consideration to the traditional sector.
-    Advise on the internal management of ABS.
-    Coordinate the work of the proposed consultant team.
-    Study and advise on opening new branches or getting involved in new
activities.
-    Participate in projects identification, preparation and appraisal.
-    Training counterparts and senior staff in planning and evaluation
department.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
B. Accounting, Procurement, Management,
Information and Agricultural Credit
Consultancy Services
Duration:                 2 years  -  72 man-months.
Personnel Requirement:   5 members (2 of whom are for short-term assignments).
Team must include a written Arabic capability.
Working Plan:             3 months for identification;
3-6 months for preparing the final recommendations;
9-15 months for implementation and training.
Scope of Work:        -   Review present procedures to assess present stage of
accounting and management reporting procedures at
headquarter and in branches.
-   Design, in conjunction with ABS staff, revisions
to present system and additional management reporting
not presently available for agreement.
-   Implementation and on-the-job training.
-   Procurement study (short term).
-   Credit Regulations review (short term).
-   Review, after implementiorL of revised systems,
of geographical scope of lending within resources
available.
-   Review Statement of Policy.
Summary of Specific Terms of Reference:
-    Review in-depth present headquarters and branch accounting
procedures.
-    Study present deficiencies in accounts presentation and lack of
standard reporting.
-    Study of loan portfolio and presentation of information for manage-
ment action.



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Design of accounting and management reports system must cover
the entire pyramid of information flow with appropriate manuals of
instruction.
Simplified budgetary control procedures.
Separate accounting to identify results of various trading, non-
banking and banking activities.
Implementation and on-the-job training.
Related study on staffing levels required.
Study to evaluate the need for further mechanization of accounting
or other information processing.
Establish and implement new procurement procedures.
Review the 1974 Credit Regulations with particular reference
to credit policies and procedures.
At mid term of Project review spread of portfolio in relation
to resources available.
Review the Statement of Policy.
Reports would be required:
a.   after design and before implementation for each of the three
main studies on accounting and information, procurement and
credit procedures;
b.   at the conclusion of the implementation.



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
C. Financial Advisor
Responsible to:                -   Assistant Managing Director, Support
Services.
Duration:                      -   Initial Period 24 months, with possible
extension for a further 24 months. Provided
by the firm of consultants.
Qualification:                 -   Certified Public Accountant or equivalent
and have at least 10 years experience in
financial management.
Duties and Reponsibilities:   -   Liaise with consultants on revised accounting
and management information systems.
-   Work with finance department on imple-
mentation of systems and assist in training.
-   Ensure accurate and timely preparation
of the Banks Accounts.
-   Advise on cash flow, funding and invest-
ment requirements.
-   Assist in financi;al evaluation of any
new projects.
-   Advise on improvements for debt recovery.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Allocation of Functions between ABS Headquarters and Its Branches
1.        Headquarters would concentrate on development of policies and
procedures, on quality control, on technical, financial and managerial
supervision of the branches and on providing support to the branches whenever
needed. This includes:
(a) Establishing credit policies and appraisal and supervision
standards and norms;
(b) Appraisal and approval of special (non-repetitive) loans such
as loans for agricultural processing, improving workshops,
potable water supply, irrigation development, agricultural
services through private and co-operative efforts, land and
water development for irrigation;
(c) Supervision of branches, including internal auditing of
branches and in-depth inspection to determine such factors
as the state of deposits, advances, profitability, operationaiL
irregularities (accounting, appraisal, collection, sticky
accounts, proper use of branch equipment, proper staff-
management relations);
(d) Control the quality of branch forecast work and review the
methodology used through inspection of a sample of branches;
(e) Establish guidelines for loan disbursement;
(f) Approval of rescheduling of loans beyond the branch three-
month limit;
(g) Monitoring and evaluation of all Bank activities;
(h)  Planning and programming Bank work;
(i) Establishing reporting procedures for branches;
(j) Liaise with other development, technical and financial
Institutions;
(k) Personnel management and provision of support services to
the branches.



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
2.        Branches would be given full responsibility for appraisal, super-
vision and collection work for normal, repetitive leanding. Moreover, branches
would be given responsibility for mobilizing deposits in the areas they serve.
Branch functions would in particular include:
(a) Mobilizing deposits from their clients;
(b)  Appraising the demand for credit and servLces in the
branch area for submission to Headquarters;
(c)  Loan appraisal, approval and supervision based on policies
and norms established by Headquarters.  This would cover
all regular and repetitive loans, including crop produc-
tion loans, pumping sets, tractors and imlplements, spraying
equipment, marketing and storage, private transport, etc.;
(d) Reporting on branch performance to Headquarters, including
detailed accounts and state of loans according to proce-
dures established by Headquarters;
(e) Preparing crop budgets to serve as a basis for forecasting
branch credit requirements and cash flow, forecasting crop
areas and input requirements and forecast:Lng medium term
credit;
(f) Marketing Bank services to the public;
(g) Approving proposal for rescheduling loans up to a three-
month limit with a 2% interest penalty;
(h) Working with local authorities and financial, development
and technical institutions to integrate the work of ABS
in the overall development effort;
(i)  The branch manager would report on the performance of his
staff and recommend salary increases and promotions to
Headquarters.



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL BANK OF SUDAN
Assumptions to Forecast Financial Statements
1.        Between 1982 and 1986, ABS will implement the Project.
2.        ABS would receive LSd 14.4 million (US$18 million) of foreign
financing over the project period, of which LSd 3.1 million (US$3.8 million)
would be as paid-up capital to meet the development of ABS' fixed assets;
LSd 2.3 million (US$2.9 million) as a grant for technical assistance and
LSd 9.0 million (US$11.3 million) would be on-lent by Government to ABS at
a 9.6% p.a. interest rate to cover the foreign exchange costs of ABS lending
in the subproject areas. No principal repayments would be made by ABS to
Government during the project period. It is assumed BOS would pay in the
balance of the authorized share capital as follows: LSd 3.5 million in 1982
and LSd 3.5 million in 1983.
3.        ABS interest rates on new loans (project and non-project) would be
increased to 14%.
4.        ABS trading commissions on existing operations would decline to a
constant annual level of LSd 400,000 by 1981. In addition, it would earn a
10% commission on import of fertilizer, insecticide, sacks, trucks, tractors
and implements, irrigation equipment and spare parts under the Project.
Storage revenue is assumed to increase by 10% p.a., reflecting construction
of new warehouses under the Project. Other income in 1980 would reflect a
contribution of LSd 250,000 on grain transactions. Exchange losses on
payment of foreign supplier credits have been assumed as LSd 350,000 for each
of the years 1981 and 1982.
5.        Liabilities among ABS and other government agencies would be cleared
at book value for the December 31, 1981 Balance Sheet. ABS liability to the
Bank of Sudan for accrued interest would be transferred to capital reserve
and no further amount would be provided during the Project life. From 1981,
accounts payable between ABS and other public entities average LSd 1 million
of debits and equivalent credit balances.
6.        ABS would exert strict control on administrative and general expenses.
No increase in staff would occur; existing staff would be more effectively
employed to carry out the project objectives and other existing activities of
ABS. Staff costs would decline slightly in 1980 (due to backdated pay raises
granted in early 1979). Thereafter, staff expenses would increase only 5%
p.a., exclusive of the costs of technical assistance and consultancy services.
General expenses are expected to be held to 10% p.a. increases. IDA funds
passed on to ABS as grant and equity from government would cover: (1) On the



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
income statement - the cost of technical assistance, consultancy services,
and incremental foreign operating costs (mainly vehicle operation), and (2)
on the cash flows and balance sheets - the foreign currency portion of ABS
capital expenditures.
7.        ABS writes off some LSd 1.2 million of bad debts (and provisions
therefore) during 1981. Assumed collection rates are non-project loans 65%
when due, 10% one year late, 10% two years late and 15% bad; and for project
loans 85% when due, 10% one year late and 5% bad.
8.        ABS reduces its inventories of farm inputs to a level of LSd 1
million by 1981. Depreciation is 4% p.a. on civil works and 20% p.a. on
furniture, equipment, and vehicles.
9.        ABS non-project lending is forecast to grow by 5% per annum.
10.       The forecasts are in current (not constant) prices.



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Table of Contents of Implementation Volume
Annex I            Agricultural Bank of Sudan - Review.
Annex II            The Agricultural Bank of Sudan Act, 1957.
Annex III           The Credit Regulations, 1974.
Annex IV            Statement of Policy
Annex V             The Agricultural Bank of Sudan Bill, 1975
(Draft not Enacted).
Annex VI           Agricultural Situation - Subprojects.
Annex VII           Irrigation - Subprojects.
Annex VIII          Procurement - Farmers' Choice Option.
Annex IX            Financial and Economic Analysis of Subprojects.
Annex X            ABS - Auditing Procedures
Annex XI            Cost Estimates, Estimated Economic and Financial
Prices, Farm Models and Forecast Economic
Benefits and Costs.
J



- 59 -
ANNEX 7
SUDAN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Sudan Agricultural Sector Survey,
Document of the World Bank, Report No. 18:36a-SU,
May 18. 1979.
2.   Sudan Agricultural Rehabilitation Program Credit
Document of the World Bank, Report No. P2731-SU,
March 3, 1980.
3.   Memorandum on the Economy of Sudan,
Document of the World Bank, Report No. 2652-SU,
October 24, 1979.
4.   Preparation Report (three Volumes),
Prepared by the Agricultural Bank of Sudan,
August, 1979.
5.   The FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme Report,
Document of the FAO, Report No. 28/77 SUD.10,
August, 1977.



I



I BRD 15384
FEBRUFAY 191
SUDAN__ _ _ _ _                                             _ _
SAUDI        2y.
AGRICULTURAL SERVICE                                                               -   I                                  ARAEI 2
*  PROJECT                                      IK110miE;                                                     ' - ARABIA
vMAiF w PAOEMCUECF FiCE 
U   WUe- S3K A~SS ORCS 0-FtC  AWRS.  flssW PNd
o   OTKER ASS RRAN F OFFICES
___            A          E2 EFRiAJEJ REFVIRED AREASARAB  REPUBLIC  - GYPT
i  OTHhER ASS SERVFCEO AAEAS
*    XfSTNAE MAS F     OEFFIC .
REGIONAt ECOUAFAR B- |f
_FRUVlhCIAL 0tEWARIES S   r                                                HAlo                                        o
- rERFVATIONAL RCEIUNFARIEi                                    /   /           |     $
RAIFRoAns 
RlVERS-SEASONiAL-PERSM1AL    j                                                ,
.2  iN  O R T H E R A,                                 ,        RED
- - - - - __ -\_ -s -d _, -o - -
7N D    A                                                                                 A F            SudI
CHADb7
.7                      \  ,/ K O  R' Q                                   S8end--- ---
(r/                                                                                           NewHalf __ass_o l ))  rd
F-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
KNOR   .,   |  <*THER/N / V   E             T H l O P I
(    D    A R E/ i /1AZP              \v  Q'R T'       1  E    RN         -        t dedn
r                r'D  A                         / F    b'Oaro  EdO ue\'  I
-l Rhez                 o tc    D -      F  A   NA
E ,                   - N.. )KA t  ,.
3~~~~~~~~K E                                            EtN >              8 EAST  ER 
f   14                                  \    8laaridiOk(~~-.\ ,--'  JubcII  /    F  IU  T    R /ser 
15t)     f    R r   T  H   E                 <_ A/  ,uW                                     NIZToiO        
-          A -       F -F           ----------
/SO(IT/-/ERN\~~~~~~~~                                        l           5E     I0P   
- -      ---  -- --  -- -- -- - 
APP               MolakUAlN/EO                E HI P
Awe,~~~~~~~~~~Jb
CENTRAL   AFRICAN  "  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~orj    /~~N                       ToritNz)E 
REPUBLIC            "F>----EUBLV    OF  ZAIRE  HE      RAA
SUDA      ~          ~          ~OFj                        J     UGA       DA                            KENY
30t  ~        Toit         -



