CREDIT NUMBER 1201 SU
DOCUMENT S
Development Credit Agreement
(Agricultural Services Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                -              , 1982


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       A4e  t             , 1982, between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by The Agricultural Bank
of the Sudan with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Agricultural
Bank of Sudan the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) by a letter addressed by the Association to the Minister
of National Planning of the Borrower on November 26, 1980, the
Association granted an advance (hereinafter called the Project
Preparation Advance) to the Borrower a t tal of six hundred
thousand dollars ($600,000) for the preparation of the Project;
(D) pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Project
Preparation Advance the amount thereof is to be refunded to the
Association out of the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Agricultural Bank of Sudan;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-I
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, un less the
context otherwise requires, the several terms def4 ned in the
General Conditions have the resDective meanings therein-set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ABS" means the Agricultural Bank of Sudan, established
by the Borrower's Agricultural Bank of Sudan Act of 1957, as such
Act may be amended from time to time;
(b) "Project Agreement" means the Agreement between the
Association and' ABS of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all Agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ABS pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time, by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; and
(b) after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay
to itself the amount required to repay the amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and
to pay all charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the


﻿-3-
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall be
cancelled as of the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing July 1, 1992, and ending January 1, 2032,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 1, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Managing Director of ABS and such other
person or persons as he shall designate in writing are designated
as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit


﻿-4-
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause ABS to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable ABS to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance;
(b) the Borrower shall make part of the proceeds of the
Credit, not exceeding two million nine hundred thousand dollars
equivalent ($2,900,000), available to ABS as a grant, an amount
not exceeding three million eight hundred thousand dollars equiva-
lent ($3,800,000) as a contribution to ABS' authorized paid-in
capital, and the remainder of about eleven million three hundred
thousand dollars equivalent ($11,300,000) as a loan under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and ABS under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association; and
(c) the Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1982, cause ABS to increase its authorized share capital
to Sudanese Pounds twenty-five million (SZ25,000,000); and
(b) the Borrower shall cause the Bank of Sudan to subscribe
Sudanese Pounds seven million (Sf7,000,000) to ABS' authorized
share capital in two equal installments in 1982 and 1983.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall relieve ABS of any obli-
gation to charge and pay interest on its paid-up capital until
the Project is completed.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause its National Water
Authority to extend its facilities and services to assist the
farmers under the Project ,at Dongola in water extraction including
inter alia provisiOD Of technical standards and specifications for
tu,ewells.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause its Agricultural
Research Corporation to extend its facilities and services under
the Project at Abu Hamed in carrying out field trials and multi-
plication of confectionery groundnut seeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall complete the registration
of land titles for tenants in the Selaim Basin not later than
December 31, 1983.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ABS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan -Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that ABS will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(c) the Agricultural Bank of Sudan Act, 1957, or any other
enactment relating to ABS shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and
adversely affect the ability of ABS to carry out the obligations
set forth in the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agree
ment;
(d) AF7) shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken for ABS
or by others whereby any of its assets shall or may be distributed
among its creditors; and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of ABS or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿-6-
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shal-l occur and shall continue for a period of
six day's after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and ABS; and
(b) any event -specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of
Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specifi & as addi-
tional conditions to the Effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and ABS;
(b) ABS has increased its service charges (inclusive of
supervision and commitment fees) to not less than fourteen per
cent (14%) per annum;
(c) the Borrower and ABS shall have concluded a management
agreement, acceptable to the Association, for the operation of the
two silos at Gedaref and Port Sudan respectively; and
(d) the Borrower and ABS shall have settled all outstanding
accounts between ABS, the Borrower and its agencies, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that:
(a) the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ABS, and is legally binding upon ABS in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and ABS and is legally binding upon
the Borrower and ABS in accordance with its terms.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. The date  I7%AL<- SI         is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.04 and 3.05 of Article III of this Agreement and the provisions
of Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable address:                       Telex:
EIMAR                               324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of th'e Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Agricultural Machinery        4,350,000       100% of foreign
and Irrigation Equipment                     expenditures
(2) Civil Works                   1,750,000       50%
(3) Office and Stores               350,000       60%
Equipment
(4) Motor Vehicles                  970,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Technical Assistance          1,740,000       100% of foreignc
and Training                                 expenditures
(6) Incremental Annual            4,350,000       50%
Farm Inputs
(7) Incremental Costs on            350,000       50% up to an
Vehicles and Building                        aggregate amount
Maintenance                                  of 180,000 SDR
equivalent;
thereafter 40%
up to an aggre-
gate amount of
260,000 SDR
equivalent and
thereafter 30%
up to an aggre-
gate amount of
350,000 SDR
equivalent


﻿10-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(8) Refund of Project               530,000      100% of princi-
Preparation Advance                          pal amount and
charges out-
standing at
Effective Date
(9) Unallocated                   1,310,000
15,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c) the term "incremental" means expenditures on account of
additional farm inputs and investments over and above the aggre-
gate amount expended in the previous fisc l year.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 11 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have.,been eligible for
financing out of proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to provide
a supervised package of credit, inputs and services to private
farmers and cooperatives through the strengthening of ABS and
related institutions, and consists of the following main Parts:
Part A:   Restructuring and strengthening of ABS through:
(i) provision of vehicles;
(ii) construction of office buildings, stores, staff housing
and related equipment and furnishings;
(iii) provision of technical assistance and training; and
(iv) provision of incremental costs on vehicle expenses
and building maintenance.
Part B:   Provision of credit and supplies to private farmers
and cooperatives in Abu Hamed, Dongola and Umm Ruaba
consisting of:
(i) pumpsets (including spare parts) in Abu Hamed and
Dongola areas and tubewells (including spare parts) in
Dongola;
(ii) agricultural machinery, vehicles and equipment (includ-
ing spare parts), such as tractors, tractor implements,
trucks and sprayers in the Abu Hamed area;
(iii) vehicles and equipment, such as trucks, scales and
sprayers in the Umm Ruaba area;
(iv) incremental annual farm inputs such as fertilizer,
pesticides, fuel, seeds and sacks and operational costs,
in Abu Hamed, Dongola and Umm Ruaba; and
(v) provision of cash loans to farmers in Umm Ruaba.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    11      day of ,At      ,
198 _.
FORSECRETARY


