CREDIT NUMBER 1201 SU
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Services Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE SUDAN
Dated                              , 1982


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated    14OA& ti                   , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter
called ABS).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an -amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million seven hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 15,700,000), on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that ABS agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ABS, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to ABS on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ABS, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ABS shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
banking, financial, economic and agricultural practices, and shall


﻿-2 -
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. ABS shall employ a firm of consultants and
other experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Assocation,
(i) to assist ABS in the review and design and implementation of
management and accounting information systems; (ii) to provide
complementary staff training and the services of a financial
adviser; (iii) to assist ABS in the review of its procurement
procedures, its Credit Regulations - 1974 id its Policy State-
ment of September 19, 1981; (iv) to conduct a review of the
geographical scope of ABS' lending operations.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ABS undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by ABS to replace or repair such goods; and
(b) except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to ABS by the Borrower shall be used exclusively for the
Project until its completion.
Section 2.05. (a) ABS shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request;
(b) ABS shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including
its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the


﻿-3-
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association
at regular intervals but not later than two months after the
expiry of each quarter, all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
ditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out
of such proceeds;
(c) promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ABS and the
Association, ABS shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by ABS and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit;
(d) ABS shall, with respect to the Project, enable the
Association's representatives to examine all plants, installa-
tions, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of ABS and
any relevant records and documents; and
(e) upon the award by ABS of any contract for goods, civil
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
Section 2.06. ABS shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, ABS shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any.provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) ABS shall at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b) ABS shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress


﻿-4-
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by ABS of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ABS
Section 3.01. (a) ABS shall at all times continue to manage
its affairs, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations,
all in accordance with appropriate banking, financial, administra-
tive, economic and agricultural practices under the supervision of
experienced and competent management; and
(b) ABS shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. ABS shall, not later than May 31, 1982,
employ an advisor to its Managing Director whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association to be responsible for coordinating the
work of the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.03. ABS shall at all times take all necessary
steps to maintain its right to carry on its operations, including
the Project, and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, take all steps necessary to acquire and retain such land,
interest in land and properties, and to acquire, maintain and
renew such licenses, consents, franchises and other rights, as may
be necessary or useful for carrying out its operations.
Section 3.04. ABS shall: (i) furnish to the Association for
its approval, the proposals for implementation of the recommenda-
tions based on the reviews referred to in Section 2.02 (i), (iii)
and (iv)   of this Agreement, not later than September 30, 1982;
and (ii) thereafter implement the agreed proposals not later than
September 30, 1983.
Section 3.05. ABS shall, not later than September 30, 1982,
furnish to the Association for its approval, a plan of action for
the collection of past dues (including a schedule for the collec-
tion of such dues).


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. ABS shall consult with the Association whenever
it proposes to amend its Statement of Policy dated September 19,
1981 in a manner that would materially affect the objectives,
operations or financial condition of ABS.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ABS shall: (i) maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition; (ii)
prepare annual consolidated accounts for all its assets and
liabilities, together with a separate schedule identifying the
transactions under the Project; (iii) furnish such consoli-
dated accounts to the Association, in English, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each fiscal year; and (iv) without limitation to the
foregoing, furnish separate records reflecting all expenditures
referred to in Category 7 of Schedule 1 of the Development Credit
Agreement on account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Credit account on the basis of certificates of expenditures;
and
(b) ABS shall retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
ments) evidencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals
are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure and shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. ABS shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association in English as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of ABS and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request. The report of such auditors shall


﻿-6-
contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the
basis of certificates of expenditures have been used to make
payments for goods received, or works or services performed, and
that such goods, works and services were eligible for financing
under the Development Credit Agreement and were used in the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 4.03. ABS shall inc"cease the sum of its service
charges (inclusive of supervision and commitment fees) to not
less than fourteen per cent (14%) per annum, on all its new
loans.
Section 4.04. ABS undertakes to obtain the Association's
approval priur to making any adjustments to its service charges
on all new loans until the project is completed.
Section 4.05. ABS shall inform the Association whenever
it proposes to make any material amendments to its Credit Regula-
tions - 1974 sufficiently in advance of any such amendment to
give the Association the opportunity to comment thereon.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of ABS thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ABS of this event.


﻿-7-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force,and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ABS:
The Agricultural Bank of the Sudan
P.O. Box 1363
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable address:                      Telex:
MASRAF                              610
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under


﻿this Agreement -on behalf of ABS may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Ma,aging
Director shall designate in writing, and the Managing Director
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
THE AGRICULTURAL BANK OF THE SUDAN
&I I Q  "6 (& 
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.    For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, ABS shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. ABS shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Items shall be aggregated in order to attract major contrac-
tors and suppliers.
4. - For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 10 -
the Sudan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) ,Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Democratc Republic of the Sudan if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of
ABS and the Association that the manufacturing cost
of such goods includes a value added in the Sudan
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared w5th each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid fxiom group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
,duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (11) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 11 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category 2 of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, ABS may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domes-
tic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such inform-
ation, including details of ownership, as shall be required to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by ABS,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures:
(i) materials for building construction shall be pro-
cured in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures or other appropriate procedures in
consultation with the Association;
(ii) civil works estimated to cost less than $500,000,
but not more than the aggregate amount of


﻿- 12 -
$3,000,000 equivalent, may be carried out in
accordance with local competitive bidding proce-
dures or other appropriate procedures in consulta-
tion with the Association;
(iii) goods other than spare parts for machinery and
vehicles, estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $100,000 and more than the equivalent of
$10,000 and in the aggregate estimated to cost not
more than the equivalent of $1,000,000 shall be
procured in accordance with the existing normal
procedures of the Borrower;
(iv) goods, other than spare parts for machinery
and vehicles, estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $10,000 and in the aggregate esti-
mated to cost not more than the equivalent of
$200,000, shall be procured at reasonable prices
off the shelf or by prudent shopping;
(v) spare parts and fuel for pumps, engines, tubewells
and machinery shall be procured by quotations, from
manufacturers of such goods, other reliable parts
manufacturers and dealers as appropriate; and
(vi) incremental quantities of fertilizers, pesti-
cides, seeds and sacks referred to in Part A
of Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement
shall be procured in accordance with existing
normal procedures of the Borrower, or other appro-
priate procedures in consultation with the Associa-
tion.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, ABS shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said


﻿- 13 -
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ABS
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform ABS and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, ABS shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ABS and state the
reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, ABS shall inform the Associa-
tion of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change


﻿- 14 -
order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform ABS and state the reasons
for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof 1 have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   //   L   day of dt4,
198.,
FOR SECRETARY


