Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2448-PAM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A
TROPICAL TREE CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 2, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorimation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Balboa (B/.1)
US$1 - B/.1
Note: The issue of Balboas is restricted to coins.
The U.S. dollar (US$) is accepted as currency.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
UNITS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                 -  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2    a 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )  -  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)        -  1.1 US short ton (sh ton)
I banana box                -  1.82 kilogram (kg)
ABBREVIATIONS
asentamiento -  A collective settlement established under the
agrarian reform program
APN          -  Autoridad Portuaria Nacional (National Port Authority)
BDA          -  Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (Agricultural Development Bank)
BLADEX       -  Banco Latinoamericano de Exportaciones (Latin American Export Bank)
BNP          -  Banco Nacional de Panama (National Bank of Panama)
CBN          -  Comision Bancaria Nacional (National Banking Commission)
CFN          -  Comision Financiera Nacional (National Finance Commission)
COBAPA       -  Corporacion Bananera del Pacifico
(Banana Corporation of the Pacific)
COFINA       -  Corporacion Financiera Naiconal (National Finance Corporation)
COMUNBANA    -  Comercializadora Multinacional del Banano
(Multinational Banana Marketing Corporation)
EMBACHI      -  Empresa Bananera de Chiriqui (Chiriqui Banana Enterprise)
GDP          -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP          -  Gross National Product
IDAAN        -  Instituto de Acueductos y Alcantarillados Nacionales (National
Institute of Water and Sewerage)
IDB          -  Inter-American Development Bank
IMA          -  Instituto de Mercadeo Agropecuario
(Agricultural Marketing Institute)
IRHE         -  Instituto de Recursos Hidraulicoa y Electrificacion (Institute
of Hidraulic Resources and Electrification)
IRHO         -  Institut de Recherches pour lea Huiles at Oleagineux
(Research Institute for Oils and Oil-bearing Crops)
MIDA         -  Ninisterio de Desarrollo Agropecuario
(Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development)
MPPE         - Ministerio de Planificacion y Politica Economica
(Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy)
OPIC         -  Overseas Private Investment Corporation
UNDP         -  United Nations Development Programme
UPEB         -  Union de Paises Exportadores del Banano
(Union of Banana Exporting Countries)
USAID        -  United States Agency for International Development



PANAMA              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TROPICAL TREE CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP)
Guarantor:      Republic of Panama
Amount:         US$19 million equivalent
Terms:          Payable in 15 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 7 percent per annum.  The foreign exchange risk
will be borne by the Government.
Relending
Terms:        BNF would relend the proceeds of the loan directly for banana
and oil palm development. Funds for cocoa and coffee develop-
ment would be lent by BNP through the Banco de Desarrollo
Agropecuario (BDA), which would act as a participating bank.
The beneficiaries of the project would be a Government-owned
banana corporation (COBAPA) and land reform settlements
(banana and oil palm), and small coffee and cocoa producers.
Relending rates would be as follows:
BNP for banana and oil palm development                 12.0
BNP to BDA to lend for coffee and cocoa:
-  IBRD funds                                         7.0
-  BNP funds                                          8.5
BDA for coffee and cocoa development                    12.0
Project
Description:  The project supports the Government's objectives of
improving the productivity of agrarian reform settlements
and small farmers and increasing production of key crops.
It consists of:
(a) long-term financing for the renovation of 1,500 ha
of coffee;
(b) long-term financing for the renovation of 600 ha and the
planting of an additional 1,900 ha of cocoa;
(c) long-term financing for the planting of 1,000 ha of
bananas on land worked by three agrarian reform groups;
(d) long-term financing for the planting of 3,000 ha of oil
palm principally on land worked by agrarian reform
groups and the construction of the first stage of an
oil processing plant (10 metric tons/hr);
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(e) consulting services to assist and train local coffee,
cocoa and oil palm technicians and to assist in operating
an evaluation system to assess the impact of the cocoa
and coffee programs; and
(f) purchase of vehicles and equipment required by extension
staff.
The project faces no major risks. Although there is little
experience in oil palm production in Panama, the risk attached
to the oil palm component is reasonable, given that technical
studies have demonstrated the suitability of the Baru District
for production of oil palm, that oil palm is being produced
successfully across the border in Costa Rica, and that the
agency responsible for oil palm development will hire qualified
technical assistance for the duration of the implementation of
the oil palm component.
Estimated Cost:                                        Local   Foreign    Total
-------(US$ 'OOO)…------
Project Components
A.   On-farm Development
Cocoa                             3,070    1,530    4,600
Coffee                            3,020    1,420    4,440
Bananas                            1,570    2,920    4,490
Oil Palm
Plantation                      3,760    3,210    6,970
Oil mill                        2,210    3,790    6,000
Subtotal on
farm development             13,630   12,870   26,500
B.   Technical Assistance
Consultants and training              -    1,230    1,230
Vehicles and equipment               10        60       70
Incremental operating costs         450         -      450
Project monitoring                   20        30       50
Subtotal on
technical assistance            480    1,320    1,800
Total baseline cost              14,110   14,190   28,300
Physical contingencies              770       790    1,560
Price contingencies               4,120    4,020    8,140
Total project cost (including
US$1.3 million in taxes)       19,000   19,000   38,000
Note: Figures in this table have been rounded.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                              US$
Beneficiaries                           2.0
Participating institutions             11.7
Government                              5.3
Proposed Bank loan                     19.0
38.0
Subloans under the project would finance up to 80 percent of
the investment plans except for banana and oil palm development
carried out by agrarian reform groups which, given their low
income situation, would be financed by subloans of up to 100
percent of the investment plan. The oil palm mill would be
financed with equity capital equivalent to at least 50 percent
of the investment required. The balance would be financed
from the proceeds of the proposed loan.
Estimated
Disbursements:                            Amount by IBRD Fiscal Year
…      US$ million…-------
Annual           Cumulative
1980                    3.1                3.1
1981                    2.2                5.3
1982                    2.6                 7.9
1983                    3.9               11.8
1984                    3.7               15.5
1985                    3.5               19.0
Rate of Return:      30 percent
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2161a-PAN of February 28, 1979






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
BANCO NACIONAL DE PANAMA (BNP)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF PANAMA
FOR A TROPICAL TREE CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP) with the guarantee of the Republic
of Panama for the equivalent of US$19 million to help finance a Tropical Tree
Crop Development Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
a four-year grace period, with interest at 7 percent per annum. BNP would
relend the proceeds of the proposed loan directly or through the Banco
de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA), on terms of up to 15 years, including
up to six years' grace. Interest rates to the ultimate beneficiaries would
be no less than 12 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Panama (1066a-PAN) was distributed to
the Executive Directors on May 17, 1976. An economic mission visited the
country in June 1978. Its report, which was discussed with the Government in
February 1979, will be distributed to the Executive Directors in March 1979.
The following paragraphs incorporate the findings of that mission and its
discussions with the Government. Country data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.        Between 1955 and 1973 Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at an average
annual rate of 7 percent. The leading sectors--services, manufacturing, and
construction--were stimulated by the buoyancy of world trade, the emergence of
Panama as a regional banking center, and a strategy of industrial import substi-
tution. In contrast, the average annual rate of growth of GDP between 1973 and
1977 has been only marginally above 1 percent, implying a fall of 5.4 percent
in per capita GDP over the four-year period. Panama's open economy was seriously
affected by the sharp rise in petroleum prices after 1973 and by the recession
in world trade which followed in 1974-75. Agriculture suffered from severe
droughts in 1976 and 1977. The collapse of an urban building boom after 1973,
and the uncertainty caused by protracted Canal Treaty negotiations also retarded
growth. Finally, enforcement of a new Labor Code in 1972, which was perceived
by entrepreneurs to unduly limit their ability to manage, price controls and
direct government involvement in production were also partly responsible for
the severe retrenchment in private investment between 1973 and 1977.
4.        The Government increased public investment, both for its short-term
expansionary effect and with the longer term purpose of providing new opportuni-
ties for the private sector and to increase exports. But increased public
sector outlays unmatched by commensurate growth in revenues led to rapid growth
in public sector deficits and to a high level of external borrowing, mainly from
commercial banks. Notwithstanding the Government's efforts to stimulate the
economy, slow growth persisted and led to increased unemployment; unofficial



-2-
estimates of urban unemployment, which include workers who were not actively
searching for a job, suggest a figure of 16 percent in 1978. A temporary
US$28 million government emergency program was put into effect to provide
employment to some 20,000 people.
5.        Before 1968, the public sector's role in the economy was relatively
small. The share of total public expenditure in GDP did not exceed 17 percent;
most outlays were in the traditional areas of education, health, and security;
and public programs emphasized urban areas. The situation changed dramatically
when the Revolutionary Government assumed power in 1968. Its three main
concerns were the elimination of rural poverty, greater national control
over the economy, including the Panama Canal, and creation of new sources of
economic growth and exports. Social programs in health and education were
extended to most areas, and an agrarian reform program was initiated. Major
investments were undertaken in transportation, tourism, international commer-
cial infrastructure, water, sewerage, and power to provide support for new
private activities. Power and part of telecommunications were nationalized.
State ownership was extended into export crops such as sugar, citrus, and
bananas and into the cement and tourism industries. Self-sufficiency in basic
foodstuffs such as rice, corn, and beans was accorded high priority.
6.        While the Government's social programs had considerable success, its
production programs produced mixed results. The rural population with access
to potable water increased from 43 percent in 1970 to 63 percent in 1976.
One-third of the population was enrolled in schools of all types by 1978,
compared to less than a quarter of the population in 1968. Infant mortality
declined by 20 percent between 1968 and 1976 and fertility rates fell from
131.3 per thousand in 1971 to 114.0 per thousand in 1975. On the other hand,
production programs in agriculture have led to self-sufficiency in rice, but
have had less impact on the output of beans and beef. Similarly, the Govern-
ment's enterprises have served to increase output but in most cases have
operated unprofitably. Some of the internationally-oriented projects, such as
banking and the Free Zone, have been successful and others are still being
implemented.
7.        Since 1975, the Government has attributed increasing importance
to restoring the confidence of the private sector. During 1976/77 it empha-
sized measures to strengthen public finances. The consolidated public sector
deficit was reduced from 18.5 percent of GDP in 1976 to 13.4 percent in 1977
as a result of new taxes, a freeze of civil service salaries, and reduced
capital outlays. New taxes (including a 5 percent value added tax) raised
the Central Government's current revenues from 15.2 percent of GDP in 1976
to 17.6 percent in 1977; significant increases in utility rates were also
introduced. Unfortunately, the Government found it difficult to sustain the
1977 changes in the following year. While revenues were buoyant, the emergency
work program, higher interest costs as LIBOR rose, and a faster implementation
of capital projects than expected, raised the estimated public sector deficit
to just over 15 percent of GDP in 1978. While the Government's gross borrow-
ing accelerated, much of it was for refinancing; over two thirds of US$600
million recently borrowed from commercial banks was used for that purpose.
This has reduced service on Central Government debt from a projected 36 per-
cent of Central Government revenues to 29 percent in 1979, and has substantially



- 3 -
improved the government's debt profile. Concerned over its financial
situation, the Government has recently negotiated a second-tranche standby
with the IMF for 1979 consistent with its desire to reduce the public sector
deficit in 1979 to 10 percent of GDP.
8.        The Government has also sustained an active dialogue with businessmen
and has provided increased fiscal incentives for investment, employment, and
non-traditional exports. Special commissions of businessmen and labor leaders
have been formed to review government policies in many areas (e.g., construc-
tion, manufacturing, labor relations), and their suggestions for policy
improvements are now being received and considered by the Government. A
policy of government participation in productive enterprises was reversed in
1977. Also, the Government has established a development finance company, the
Corporacion Financiera Nacional (COFINA), which will help to finance private
industrial, tourism and commercial projects. The restoration of confidence
and the recovery of private investment will depend on the response to these
new policies as well as on the impact of the new Canal Treaty.
9.        The new Canal Treaty was signed on September 7, 1977 and instruments
of ratification were exchanged on June 16, 1978. Formal implementation begins
October 1, 1979 and ends December 31, 1999 when the Canal and all ancillary
facilities revert to Panama. The immediate financial benefits to Panama
include net fiscal receipts of about US$60 million per year. The UJnited
States has also pledged its best efforts to arrange up to US$200 million in
suppliers' credits; up to US$75 million in guarantees under a USAID housing
program; and a guarantee from the U.S. Overseas Private Investment Corporation
(OPIC) which will permit up to US$20 million in borrowings for development
finance in United States commercial markets. Assets reverting to Panama in
1979 include the three ports of Balboa, Cristobal, and Coco Solo, the railroad
from Balboa to Cristobal, two unused airfields, much valuable land, and most
service outlets of the Panama Canal Company's supply division.
10.       The outlook for recovery and future growth of the Panamanian economy
has been enhanced by these recent developments. The new Treaty, Panama's
expanded infrastructure and relatively skilled human resources will permit
Panama to both deepen and diversify economic activities that can successfully
exploit its unique geographical/transport advantages. Studies will be
made to determine how best to use Panama's locational advantage to expand
industrial and service exports by using the reverted Canal Zone area.
Efforts are being made to realize the potential for increased exports of
bananas, grass-fed beef, fresh fruit, cocoa, and coffee, and for replacing
imports of vegetable oils and dairy products by local production. In addition,
the Government is considering the exploitation of Panama's copper deposits.
Although the medium term outlook now seems more favorable, certain critical
issues such as the relative roles of the public and private sectors, the
climate for private investment, market risks in copper, and the rate of growth
of the external debt will continue to require the attention of policy makers.
11.       At the end of 1977, Panama's disbursed external public debt of
US$1,378 million was 65 percent of GDP. Loans from financial institutions and
suppliers' credits accounted for 68 percent; the remainder was almost evenly
divided between bilateral and multilateral loan sources. Debt due the World



- 4 -
Bank amounts to only 7.2 percent of the total. Despite the recent refinancing
operation (see paragraph 7) service on the public debt still absorbs a sub-
stantial proportion of Central Government revenues. To reduce its deficit,
the Government will reduce public sector capital outlays in 1979. During the
1980's it plans to further reduce these outlays, at least as a proportion of
GDP, in order to reduce the public sector deficit to at most 6 percent of GDP.
Failure to reach this goal could create financial problems for the Government.
The Government is still in the process of considering--within its financial
constraints--the composition of a future investment program that would reflect
the new opportunities presented by the Canal Treaty, and the timing and
financial structure of a US$1.6 billion copper project of which the Government
would be the major shareholder. Likewise of crucial importance, will be the
Government's ability to prevent expectations aroused by the Canal Treaty from
resulting in inflationary wage increases. Such increases would reduce public
sector savings and adversely affect private investment.
12.       To date, the Government has taken steps to cope with the problems
facing the country, especially rural poverty, recession in private investment,
and the high level of external debt. However, the Bank will continue to
monitor closely developments affecting the issues mentioned in the preceding
paragraph which are critical to the Government's efforts at strengthening
public finances and stimulating private investment. On the basis of its 1979
public sector program, of the Government's commitment to reduce the public
sector deficit, and of the more favorable outlook for growth, Panama can
be regarded as creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       The Bank has to date made seventeen loans to Panama totalling US$238.6
million.  Of these, eight loans for US$83.4 million, are fully disbursed (two
for roads totalling US$13 million; one for an airport project for US$20 million;
three for agriculture totalling US$4.4 million, and two for power for US$46
million).  Ongoing projects include two livestock credit projects; a power
transmission project and a power generation and transmission project; a fishing
port project; a water supply and sewerage project; a fisheries project; and a
highway maintenance project. The most recent loan, for a development banking
project, was approved by the Executive Directors in December 1978. Execution
of Bank-financed projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory, although
delays and cost overruns occurred particularly with respect to the Tocumen
Airport and the Second Power Projects, both of which have now been completed.
14.       IFC has made three investments in Panama.  The first was a commitment
in 1971 to acquire US$0.3 million of equity in the Corporacion de Desarrollo
Hotelero, S.A. and to lend to the Corporacion US$1.2 million to build a new
international hotel. This project was satisfactorily completed. The second
is a commitment approved by the Executive Directors in December 1977 to lend
US$2.4 million and acquire US$1.4 million in equity in Vidrios de Panama, S.A.,
the first glass container factory in Panama. The project is under construction
and should be completed in the first quarter of 1980. The third is a commit-
ment to acquire US$2.5 million in equity in the Banco Latinoamericano de



-5-
Exportaciones (BLADEX), a regional export bank proposed and promoted by the
Government of Panama. BLADEX was incorporated in Panama in January 1978 and
IFC's participation as a shareholder was approved in July 1978. Central banks
and commercial banks in Latin America, as well as many of the largest inter-
national commercial banks are shareholders of BLADEX. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of January 31, 1979
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
15.       Bank lending to Panama is designed to support the Government's
development strategy (embodied in the 1976-80 National Development Plan)
particularly as regards the further development of Panama's service industries
and the diversification of production and exports. Specifically, the Bank
assists those sectors in which it can make a special contribution in terms of
(i) developing policies and institutions; (ii) removing infrastructure bottle-
necks, and (iii) better utilizing the country's natural resources. The project
now under consideration would result in better utilization of natural resources,
strengthen agrarian reform settlements and provide employment to small farmers
and rural labor. We are currently working with the Government on the identifi-
cation of an urban project in Colon, Panama's second largest city and in the
preparation of a power distribution project. In our future lending activities
in Panama, we hope to assist the Government to address the needs which will
result from the transfer to Panama of the areas adjacent to the Canal.
16.       The principal sources of official external financing to Panama in
the past are summarized below:
Table 1:  External Assistance to Panama, 1953-78
(US$ million)
IBRD        IDB         USAID
Commitments 1953-68                              18.0 /1      37.2         72.2
Commitments 1969-78                             220.6        310.0       221.2
238.6       347.2        293.4
Total Commitments by Sector 1953-78
Power                                         118.0         98.0          -
Education and Health                             -         30.4         42.3
Agriculture, Fisheries, and Livestock          24.6         48.5        60.9
Industry                                       15.0         4.0          9.1
Water and Sewerage                             12.0         21.3        36.0
Housing                                          -          16.6        35.2
Transport                                      69.0        99.5         82.5 /2
Other                                            -         28.9         27.4
Total           238.6       347.2        293.4
/1   Excluding $0.5 million which was cancelled (Loan 86-PAN of 1953 for
agricultural machinery).
/2   Including a $60 million grant from the U.S. Government for
completion of the Darien Gap portion of the Pan-American Highway.



- 6 -
17.       Both the USAID and the IDB have lent substantial amounts for agricul-
ture and for social services (including family planning in the case of USAID).
Past lending patterns are likely to persist, at least as regards the social
services, because the Government prefers to borrow on concessionary terms for
those sectors, while utilizing assistance received on harder terms for projects
which are expected to result in more immediate economic benefits. In addition
to agriculture and social services, the IDB is financing road construction and
tourism, and participated with the Bank in the financing of the Fortuna
Hydroelectric Project.
18.       The Bank's share of Panama's publicly guaranteed external debt out-
standing and disbursed was 7.2 percent at the end of 1977 and the Bank's
share of public external debt service was 5 percent. These percentages are
expected to drop slightly in the 1980s.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
19.       Given its privileged geographic location and the scarcity of good
quality soils, Panama's comparative economic advantage has been and is likely
to remain in the development of export-oriented service industries in urban
areas. Agriculture, nevertheless, continues to receive much attention from
the authorities for three main reasons. First, there is a serious problem
of poverty in rural areas where 30 percent of the national labor force is
employed. Second, excluding the service sector, agriculture is the main
source of foreign exchange earnings. Third, with appropriate policies, the
sector could make a greater contribution to output, the balance of payments
and employment.
20.       During 1975-77, exports of agricultural or marine origin averaged
US$127 million per annum, representing 51 percent of all exports of goods and
over 66 percent of non-petroleum merchandise exports. Bananas and sugar alone
accounted for 32 percent and 17 percent of non-petroleum exports, respectively;
shrimps for 14 percent; and coffee and beef for about 2 percent each. Despite
an overall growth rate of only 2 percent per annum in the 1972-77 period, the
agricultural sector has been able to supply most of the food products required
by the domestic market. Total imports of agricultural products during the
1975-77 period averaged about US$53 million, equivalent to about 9 percent of
total imports. Performance of the sector was adversely affected in 1974-76 by
a substantial fall in banana production and exports, which resulted from
disagreements between the Government of Panama and United Brands Corporation.
Banana production subsequently increased, but it has still not regained
its 1970-72 level. In 1976-77, grain output was reduced by a severe drought.
21.       There is still scope for some import substitution, especially in
vegetable oils, but the major potential for agricultural growth lies in exports,
The Bank's ongoing Second Livestock Project is primarily financing expansion
of dairy production which can efficiently replace imports. The present
project will develop oil palm, thereby helping to replace imports of vegetable
oils. It would also stimulate Panama's exports of bananas, cocoa and coffee.



- 7 -
22.       Historically, bananas have been Panama's most important crop from
the standpoint of both its contribution to the value of production of the
sector (18 percent) and its share of foreign trade; banana exports amount to
about US$60 million per year, equivalent to 41 percent of agricultural exports
(average 1973-1976 figures). Bananas also provide work for approximately
23 percent of the labor force working in the crop subsector, and are the
source of substantial export tax revenues totalling about US$10 million per
year (3.5 percent of all taxes in 1976). After resolution of a dispute
between the Government and the United Brands Corporation on land tenure and
the level of export taxes, an agreement was signed in January 1976 whereby
United Brands sold to the Government all the land owned by the company in
Panama (43,000 ha).  The Government leased back to United Brands 15,700 ha
under banana cultivation or required for company operations. Other land
suitable for banana production is being developed principally by the Banana
Corporation of the Pacific (COBAPA), an autonomous government institution.
Support of banana development has an important institution-building feature,
since COBAPA may eventually take over responsibility for the management of a
much larger proportion of the banana lands. Banana production is concentrated
in the Provinces of Chiriqui and Bocas del Toro in western Panama.
23.       Panama is currently importing almost all its requirements of
vegetable fats and oils, some 18,000 metric tons per year, for a total value
of about US$10 million (1977 figures). There are some 1,000 ha of oil palm in
the area of Icacal, Province of Colon, and a mill capable of processing 5 tons
of fresh fruit bunches per hour, both abandoned in 1966 by a private company
because of land tenure and labor problems.  This plantation and adjacent land
was subsequently formed into a collective settlement which planted an additional
1,020 ha of oil palm that is scheduled to start commercial production in 1979.
A study carried out in 1976 by the French consultants, Research Institute for
Oils and Oil-bearing Crops (IRHO) and by the Ministry of Agriculture (MIDA),
identified four areas considered to be suitable for oil palm development on
the basis of ecological conditions, topography and available infrastructure.
First priority was given to the District of Baru in Chiriqui Province. COBAPA
planted, on an experimental basis, 26 ha of oil palm in this area in September
1976. This experimental lot was analyzed by IRHO in mid-1978 which confirmed
the suitability of the area for oil palm.
24.       Accounting for about 2 percent of total agricultural production
value, the average coffee production over the 1974-76 period has remained at
around 4,800 metric tons per year, not enough to fill Panama's indicative
export market allocations under the International Coffee Agreement. In 1977,
only about 1,360 metric tons were exported for a total value of US$4.4 million.
Coffee growing in Panama is essentially a small farm operation, following
rudimentary practices, on about 31,000 farms, with a total area of about
22,000 ha. The absence of credit and of technical support to these small
farmers and the old age of existing plantations have been the main causes for
the stagnation of the sector. Government policy for coffee is defined in the
framework of a five-year plan for coffee renovation (1976-80). The main
objectives of this plan are to improve productivity and to obtain substantial
increases in coffee production to enable Panama to meet its internal demand
and take advantage of its available share of the export market.



- 8 -
25.       In 1972-76, cocoa production averaged 620 metric tons per year and
exports about 600 metric tons. Foreign exchange earnings from cocoa exports
amounted to slightly less than US$1 million per year, but have recently doubled,
due to substantial increases in international prices. The cocoa component of
the project is located in the Province of Bocas del Toro which is one of
the least developed and most isolated regions in the country. It accounts for
85 percent of the area planted with cocoa and for all of Panama's cocoa
exports. Implementation of a six-year national cocoa program (1974-80) was
started in 1974 by the Department of Coffee and Cocoa of MIDA. In addition to
increasing production, the program aims at supporting cocoa growers, who
remain among the poorest farmers in the country. Of the one thousand existing
cocoa producers, 600 are organized in a single cooperative unit, and it is
likely that in the future more will join it. The goals for these six years
are to plant or renovate a total of 3,250 ha in the province of Bocas del
Toro.
Government Policies
26.       The Government has sought to improve the living standards of the
rural population by organizing landless peasants and small farmers into
collective settlements (asentamientos) or cooperatives, by providing them
with land, credit and technical assistance and by facilitating the marketing
of their crops. It has also invested heavily in state production enterprises
for sugar, citrus products and regional development. Budgetary allocations
were increased sharply in support of this policy and public sector outlays for
agriculture rose from less than 1 percent of GDP in 1968 to more than 3.5
percent in 1977, an annual increase of 25 percent in real terms. Initially,
these efforts were oriented mainly towards land acquisition and settlement,
peasant organization and the provision of social and economic services such
as education, health and feeder roads. Between 1969 and 1977, the Government
purchased or expropriated with compensation 502,000 ha and distributed them
to 18,260 families.  About 87,000 ha were assigned to 215 asentamientos or
collective settlements, benefitting 5,000 families and to 57 farming coopera-
tives of small holders. The balance of the land was distributed to small- and
medium-scale farmers. The tenure arrangements that will finally emerge from
the asentamientos are not yet clear since so far the members have only collec-
tive, temporary rights.
27.       Since 1974, the emphasis has shifted towards improving the produc-
tivity and management of the agrarian reform units, expansion of production
and measures to strengthen MIDA. As part of the effort to increase production,
the authorities have substantially increased support prices and expanded
marketing services. All these measures brought about increases in the produc-
tion of perishable vegetables, milk, corn and rice. The Government has also
made heavy investments in the sugar industry which resulted in the expansion
of the area under sugarcane from 24,000 ha in 1970 to 34,000 ha in 1974.
However, heavy losses are being incurred given the present low level of world
sugar prices and the relatively high cost of the Panamanian sugar industry.
28.       Sector development goals are defined in the 1976-80 National Develop-
ment Plan. General policy objectives are to (a) maximize the contribution of
the sector to the economy through import substitution and exports; (b) increase
employment, income and the general living standards of the rural population,



with emphasis on the rural poor; (c) reduce the rate of rural migration;
(d) conserve natural resources; and (e) promote a land ownership structure
which would incorporate marginal farmers into the productive system.
29.       The project would fit closely into these development objectives by
promoting banana production, the main source of foreign exchange earnings;
diversifying exports by increasing production of coffee and cocoa; and
encouraging import substitution of vegetable oils and fats. At the same
time, it would help to meet the objectives of employment generation, increased
rural incomes, and the integration of asentamientos and small farmers into
modern production systems. In support of the project objectives, the Govern-
ment has agreed to establish and maintain such policies as shall be necessary
to enable producers of the crops financed under the project to obtain a
reasonable return on their investment; and exchange views with the Bank on any
new policies or measures which may adversely affect their development before
the application of such policies (Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement).
Agricultural Credit
30.       Institutional credit to the agricultural sector is provided by a
limited number of private banks, and to a lesser extent, by the official banks,
Banco Nacional de Panama (BNP) and Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA).
Private banks have also indirectly financed the sector through medium-term
loans to BDA (US$13.1 million during the 1974-77 period). BNP and BDA are the
country's most important sources of medium- and long-term development credit
for the sector and are the only ones providing financing to small farmers and
asentamientos. Long-term agricultural credit has been supported by the Bank,
through BNP, and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), through the BDA.
The IDB's lines of credit for agriculture through BDA have been used mainly to
finance grains and, in some instances, to purchase cattle for small farmers.
31.       During the 1973-76 period, total domestic credit (excluding lending
to the public sector) increased by 22 percent, from US$1,352 million in 1973
to US$1,645 million in 1976. In the same period, total lending for crops and
livestock increased by only 16 percent, from US$118 million to US$138 million,
and the proportion of agricultural to total domestic credit decreased from 9
percent to 8 percent. Total agricultural lending by private banks rose from
US$82 million in 1973 to US$99 million in 1976, as compared with an increase
from US$36 million to only US$38 million by BNP and BDA. However, all of the
increase in lending by private banks was in the form of short-term credit for
production, processing, and marketing, generally benefitting large producers
and agroindustries.
Past Bank Assistance to Agriculture
32.       The Bank has financed two livestock projects in Panama.  The first
for US$4.7 million, which financed the expansion of milk and beef production,
was approved in FY1973. The loan is fully committed and should be fully
disbursed by mid-1980. A system to evaluate the impact of the project has
been established and the results will be available in mid-1979. Preliminary
analysis of 17 project farms indicates that investments under the project have
had a favorable impact on production and income. A second project, designed



- 10 -
to provide credit for the development of dual-purpose (beef and milk) opera-
tions to both small- and medium-scale farmers and agrarian reform settlements,
and to develop some specialized dairy operations, was approved in the last
quarter of FY1977. Recent administrative changes have delayed enactment of
revised standards for milk pricing as well as the legal establishment and
financial reorganization of the Rio Hato Corporation, a state farm which
serves as a production and training center. It is still too early to
evaluate the project's impact.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
33.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal of the Tropical Tree Crop Develop-
ment Project - Panama" (No. 2161a-PAN), dated February 28, 1979, is being
distributed separately. The main features of the loan and project are found
at the beginning of this report, and Supplementary Project Data are given in
Annex III. The project was prepared by BNP, BDA and MIDA between April 1977
and March 1978 and was appraised in February/March 1978. Negotiations were
held in Washington from February 5 to 8, 1979. The Government and BNP were
represented by a delegation composed of Mesrs. Orlando Caicedo, Chief of the
Sectoral Planning Department of the Ministry of Planning and Economic Policy;
Roberto Barragan, Director of the Agricultural Marketing Institute; Rolando
Guillen, Deputy General Manager of BDA; Alfonso Guevara, Manager of the
Development Banking Section of BNP; and Reynaldo Perez, Director of Planning
of MIDA.
Project Objective and Scope
34.       The project supports the Government's objectives of improving the
productivity of asentamientos and small farmers and increasing production of
key crops. It would finance:
(a)  renovation of 1,500 ha of coffee owned by some one thousand small
farmers, generally with an area to be developed under the project of
less than 3 ha;
(b)  renovation of 600 ha and the planting of an additional 1,900 ha
of cocoa owned by some one thousand small farmers (about 60 percent
organized in cooperatives), generally with an area to be developed
under the project of less than 5 ha;
(c)  planting of 1,000 ha of bananas on land occupied by three agrarian
reform groups (including about 410 families);
(d)  planting of 3,000 ha of oil palm on land occupied by agrarian reform
groups (including about 640 families), and the construction of the
first stage of an oil processing plant (10 metric tons/hour);



- 11 -
(e) consulting services, including (1) 245 man-months to assist and
train local coffee, cocoa and oil palm technicians; (2) five man-
months to assist in establishing and operating an evaluation system
to assess the impact of the cocoa and coffee programs;
(f) sixteen man-months for short-study tours abroad and on-the-job training
of local technicians; and
(g) purchase of vehicles and equipment required by the cocoa and coffee
extension staff.
35.       Execution of the project is expected to take six years:  subloans
are expected to be committed over a three-year period, with Bank disbursements
extending over a period of six years.
Project Organization and Administration
36.       BNP, which has competently administered the Bank-financed livestock
and fisheries projects, would be responsible for overall supervision and
coordination of project implementation. Day-to-day management of the project
would be the responsibility of the Manager of the Development Banking Section
of BNP, assisted by a full-time project coordinator with acceptable qualifi-
cations and experience who would be appointed by September 30, 1979
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Development Banking Section
of BNP would have direct responsibility to provide the supervised credit for
the banana and oil palm components. As in the past, BNP would maintain
separate project accounts and its financial statements would be independently
audited. A project monitoring and evaluation system would be implemented by
BNP, and a draft completion report would be prepared by BNP within four months
of project completion.
37.       BNP would channel the funds for coffee and cocoa development through
BDA, which would relend to farmers. BDA's Deputy General Manager would have
responsibility for the implementation through BDA and MIDA of the cocoa and coffee
components and serve as liaison between BDA and BNP. BNP would enter into a Sub-
sidiary Agreement with BDA which would specify the lending and operating arrange-
ments between the two institutions (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
BDA would enter into a,Technical Assistance Agreement with the Government
under which MIDA would make available, for the duration of the project, the
services of 16 cocoa technicians and 20 coffee technicians, as well as vehicles
and equipment, to support BDA in evaluating loan requests and providing the
required technical assistance to the participating farmers, and two field
officers to supervise the execution of on-farm investments (Section 3.04(a) of
the draft Guarantee Agreement). Four internationally-recruited experts would
assist MIDA technicians in the implementation of the coffee and cocoa programs
and short-term courses would be held for extension agents and farmers. The
terms of reference for the internationally-recruited agricultural and manage-
ment consultants who would carry out technical assistance and training would
be submitted to the Bank for approval by October 31, 1979, and the consultants
appointed by December 31, 1979. BNP would enter into a Financing Agreement
with the Government which would provide for the transfer to MIDA of funds for
these consulting services as well as those to be provided to COBAPA for



- 12 -
technical assistance to oil palm beneficiaries. The agreement also provides
for the repayment of the funds to BNP (Section 3.01(e) of the draft Loan
Agreement and Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The Subsidiary
Agreement, the Technical Assistance Agreement and the Financing Agreement as
well as the appointment of the field officers of MIDA would be conditions of
disbursement for the coffee and cocoa components of the project (Schedule 1,
para. 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
38.       BDA has introduced substantial improvements in its financial
policies, and it is expected that it will competently implement the coffee and
cocoa components of the project. In late 1978, the Government decided on the
following measures designed to strengthen BDA's operations and procedures:  to
increase lending interest rates and interest rate spreads; to assume the
repayment of US$6 million of BDA's borrowing from private banks; to introduce
improvements in the arrears collection procedures and write-off non-recoverable
debts; to make an annual contribution to BDA equity of at least US$1.3 million
during 1978 and 1979 and of US$1.5 million in 1980 and 1981; and to increase
the autonomy of local and regional field offices. These measures are expected
to bring about a rapid improvement of the institution's finances and operations.
By July 31, 1980, BDA would send to the Bank a report indicating the details
of the reforms introduced in its accounting system and the results of the
program designed to improve its financial situation and loan portfolio
(Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       Funds for the banana and oil palm development would be on-lent by BNP
to COBAPA and the asentamientos and to an entity to be established to manage
the oil palm processing plant (paras. 40, 41 and 42 below). COBAPA would act
as the technical agent for the banana and oil palm development. Its responsi-
bilities, including providing management training to farmers and others described
in the next two paragraphs, would be specified in a COBAPA Technical Assistance
Agreement, between COBAPA and BNP. Signing of this agreement would be a con-
dition of disbursement of the banana and oil palm components. Main conditions
of the COBAPA Technical Assistance Agreement relating to the field implementa-
tion of the banana and oil palm components would be reflected in each of the
farm investment plans to be signed between COBAPA and the asentamientos to
benefit from the project. COBAPA would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank (Schedule 1, para. 4(c) and Schedule 5, Section III, (B)
of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       COBAPA would assume full responsibility for the investment, manage-
ment, production, marketing and provision of technical assistance for banana
development. The banana development will take place in lands belonging to
three groups of farmers: (i) Empresa Bananera de Chiriqui (EMBACHI), a
corporation formed by two asentamientos; (ii) Asentamiento Unidad Indigena;
and (iii) Asentamiento Grupo del Oriente. The farm investment plans to be
signed between each of the groups and COBAPA would give COBAPA full rights to
develop, market, and manage the bananas produced on their respective lands
until full development of the project. In addition, EMBACHI and the
asentamientos would authorize COBAPA to pay the groups' outstanding debts
to BDA out of the revenues from the sale of bananas. EMBACHI and the
asentamientos would pay COBAPA a fee for each box of bananas of export quality
produced by the plantation to cover overhead expenses.



- 13 -
41.       The 3,000 ha oil palm plantations would be developed on land now held
by about 16 asentamientos. It is expected that some of the asentamientos would
operate under a system similar to that of the banana development: investment,
management and marketing of the oil palm would be the responsibility of an
Oil Palm Division to be created within COBAPA until full development of the
oil palm plantations. Other asentamientos would be developed under an out-
grower system, with COBAPA providing technical assistance and supervision.
Each one of the asentamientos would sign a farm investment plan with COBAPA.
The Oil Palm Division of COBAPA would include a manager, one internationally-
recruited specialist in oil palm production, and two local technicians to act
as counterpart and field supervisors. Establishment of the Oil Palm Division
and hiring of its manager, an expert in oil palm production and two agricultural
technicians would be a condition of disbursement of the oil palm component
(Schedule 1, para. 4(d) of the draft Loan Agreement). Two other internationally-
recruited specialists (plant protection, soils and oil palm fertilization) would
be hired by June 30, 1981 on a part-time basis, to inspect the plantation
periodically during the implementation period. In addition to their technical
responsibilities, these experts would train their local counterparts, laborers
and nursery workers. A selective training program for local technicians
abroad would also be implemented.
42.       The Government would prepare by June 30, 1981, in coordination with
BNP, a detailed study satisfactory to the Bank of the oil palm processing
facility. The study would include detailed engineering designs and would
describe the financial structure, management and operations of the oil palm
processing plant. Receipt of this study by the Bank would be a condition of
disbursement under the oil mill component (Section 3.07 of the draft Guarantee
Agreement and Schedule 1, para. 4(e) of the draft Loan Agreement). Financial
arrangements would be made by the Government to provide for an equity
participation of no less than 50 percent of the mill investment; the balance
would be financed out of the proceeds of the loan. Once the management,
organization and financial structure of the oil palm processing plant is
agreed upon, it would not be modified without the Bank's agreement
(Section 3.07(d) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
43.       Much of the land to be developed under the project is still owned
by the Government or not titled. The Government would grant titles to the
coffee and cocoa beneficiaries within one year of their respective subloans.
The Government would also grant rights to the use of land for a period of not
less than 30 years to the asentamientos which will benefit from the banana and
oil palm components (Section 3.05 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). Of the
project areas, only the Province of Bocas del Toro, where cocoa is produced,
has not been adequately covered by agrarian reform offices. The Government
has agreed to maintain during the execution of the project an office of the
National Directorate of Agrarian Reform in Bocas del Toro to expedite titling
(Section 3.04(a) (iii) of the draft Guarantee Agreement).



- 14 -
Cost Estimates and Financing
44.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$38 million (includ-
ing US$1.3 million in taxes). A detailed breakdown of costs is given at the
beginning of this report. The proposed loan of US$19 million would finance
the imported component. Project beneficiaries would finance US$2 million,
representing 5 percent of project costs; BNP would finance US$11.7 million or
31 percent of project costs.  The Goverment would finance US$0.6 million or
2 percent of project costs for technical assistance and up to US$4.7 million
or 12 percent of project costs for the oil plant. The US$4.7 million
represents the total equity contribution which will be required for the oil
processing plant. The actual government contribution would be reduced to the
extent that investors decide to participate in the oil plant.
45.       Costs for the coffee and cocoa subprojects would be financed up to
42 percent from the proceeds of the Bank loan, up to 38 percent by loans made
by BNP from its own resources and the remainder (no less than 20 percent) by
sub-borrowers. Costs for the banana and oil palm plantations on agrarian reform
units would be financed up to 53 percent from the Bank loan and up to 47 percent
from BNP.  The presently poor financial condition of the asentamientos --pros-
pective banana and oil palm sub-borrowers--precludes an equity contribution
from them. BNP and BDA would provide complementary short-term credit to
carry out sub-borrowers' investment plans (Sections 3.01(b) and 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Retroactive financing up to a maximum US$1.5 million
is proposed to cover the cost of planting of the first 500 ha of coffee, cocoa
and bananas during the 1978 planting season (May to October 1978) Schedule 1,
para. 4(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
46.       The estimated cost of the 250 man-months of consulting services to
be provided under the project (item (e) of para. 34) is US$1.2 million or an
average gross cost per man-month of approximately US$4,800 (excluding price
escalation and contingencies). This average cost is considered reasonable
given the type of expertise required.
Lending Arrangements
47,       The lending rate to the ultimate recipients would be no less than
12 percent per annum. This lending rate would be positive: wholesale
prices increased at 7.8 percent in 1975-76, 7.2 in 1976-77 and are expected
to increase at 7.5 percent from 1977-79, and at 7.0 percent thereafter.  It is
consistent with interest rates in Panama for long-term agricultural credit
which ranged from 8 to 10 percent for BDA and 11 to 13 percent for BNP.
Interest rates charged by private banks for agricultural lending are reported
to be 1 to 3 percent per annum higher than those currently charged by BNP.
BNP would on-lend Bank funds to BDA at the Bank rate, and the funds which BDA
is to contribute at 8.5 percent. The Government, the Bank and BNP would from
time to time, at the request of any one of them, review the lending terms and
conditions with a view to adjust them to the extent necessary to: (a) provide
adequate incentives to BDA to lend for the purposes of the project; and
(b) ensure the compatibility of the interest rates under the project with
other interest rates in Panama for lending for agricultural development,



- 15 -
provided that the interest rates under the project would remain positive in
real terms. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the Bank
loan (Section 3.08 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
48.       Subloan terms for the coffee and cocoa components would be for up
to nine years, including up to three years' grace. The Bank would review
lending conditions and procedures, subloan approval ceilings of BDA's regional
and local offices operating in the project area, and procedures for subloan
preparation and evaluation. Subloan terms for the banana component would be
for a maximum of seven years, including two years' grace. Subloan terms for
oil palm plantations would be for a maximum of 13 years, including up to six
years' grace and for the oil palm processing plant 14 years including eight
years' grace.
Demand and Market Aspects
49.       COBAPA initiated direct banana exports to Yugoslavia in 1975 under
a one-year contract, renewed annually after price and volume negotiations.
Starting in May 1978, however, COBAPA's production has been exported through
the Multinational Banana Marketing Corporation (COMUNBANA) which is the
marketing agency of the Union of Banana Exporting Countries (an inter-
Governmental consortium comprising Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras
and Panama). COMUNBANA will export the bananas to Yugoslavia under a five-year
renewable contract. Prices under the COMUNBANA-Yugoslavia contract are based
on world market prices and are reviewed annually. Under the contract with
COMUNBANA, COBAPA will receive US$2.80 FOB per box, equivalent to about
US$2.60 per box ex-packing plant, or US$0.20 more than the equivalent price
obtained by independent producers who market their output through United
Brands. The five-year contract with COMUNBANA ensures that COMUNBANA will buy
all export quality bananas produced by COBAPA during the 1978-82 period. The
contract is renewable.
50.       Oil palm production of the proposed project would substitute for
part of the imports of vegetable oils and fats, which are estimated at between
18,000 and 20,000 m tons per year. At full development (1990), total produc-
tion from the project would be about 12,700 metric tons of unrefined oil per
year (11,200 metric tons of refined oil), equivalent to about one-third the
total estimated demand. Refining facilities are adequate to process total
project incremental production at full development.
51.       Panama has traditionally given priority to satisfying its internal
demand rather than exporting coffee. It has not been able to meet its indica-
tive export entitlement allocated under the International Coffee Agreement.
Although the present price received by producers is the average of the export
market price and a much lower domestic price, present prices received by
producers (US$0.90 to US$1.00 per lb of parchment coffee) are well above the
estimated production cost of coffee (US$0.65 per lb), and the Government has
agreed to maintain policies that encourage production (para. 29 above).
52.       During the past years (1974-76), Panama has exported an average
of 600 metric tons of dry cocoa beans per year, mostly to the United States.
Almost all the exported production is handled by two buyers: the Cocoa



- 16 -
Cooperative of Bocas del Toro, which exports 60 percent of the area's cocoa
production and a private buyer for the remaining 40 percent. It is expected
that most of the incremental production would be marketed through the Coopera-
tive which offers its members substantially higher prices than the private
buyer. The project is expected to more than triple Panama's cocoa exports by
1986 which will, nevertheless, still represent a negligible share of projected
world exports (below 0.2 percent).
Procurement
53.       On-farm investment items required for cocoa, coffee, banana and oil
palm development would be procured by about 2,000 small-scale farmers, and 19
agrarian reform settlements. Inputs, small equipment and tools, valued at
US$7.7 million would be varied or limited for technological reasons and not
suitable for procurement through competitive bidding. Therefore, sub-borrowers
would purchase their requirements through local commercial channels, including
rural and farmers' cooperatives, which represent a broad spectrum of inter-
national suppliers. International comparative shopping, subject to Bank
approval, would be utilized in the procurement of the oil palm seeds
(US$0.3 million).
54.       Purchase of equipment for the banana and oil palm components
amounting to less than US$50,000 equivalent would be made directly through
local commercial channels. For equipment orders amounting to between US$50,000
and US$100,000, price quotations would be obtained from at least three local
suppliers. Orders exceeding US$100,000 would be subject to international
competitive bidding, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Civil works for
project facilities (US$3.8 million) would be carried out through force account
and/or through local competitive bidding procedures, which are acceptable to
the Bank.
55.       Foreign firms are adequately represented in Panama and there is a
good network of competitive suppliers of agricultural inputs; facilities for
maintenance of machinery and equipment are adequate. All inputs, machinery
and equipment for the proposed project are exempt from import duties and
subject only to a 5 percent sales tax if purchased locally. Furthermore,
there are no import restrictions which could affect purchases through existing
local channels.
Disbursements
56.       The loan would be disbursed over a six year period against the
import component of the project as follows:
(a) 53 percent of amounts disbursed for farm development subloans;
(b) 100 percent of the subloan for the oil palm processing plant
(equivalent to 50 percent of the total cost of the component);
(c) 100 percent of the cost of consultant services;



- 17 -
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for the training
program;
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for vehicles and equipment
related to technical assistance, or 85 percent of local expendi-
tures, if locally-procured but previously-imported; and
(f) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures, or 56 percent of local
expenditures related to monitoring and evaluation.
Economic Justification
57.       The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at
30 percent, including 33 percent for the cocoa component; 28 percent for the
coffee component; 41 percent for the banana component (each component
representing 17 percent of project costs); and 13 percent for the oil palm
component (representing 49 percent of project costs). The rate of return for
the oil palm component is in line with that for similar projects in which
revenues accrue over a long period of time, especially since very conser-
vative assumptions were made for the build-up of oil palm production. A
sensitivity analysis indicates that the economic rate of return would be 23
percent with a 10 percent decrease in benefits, and 19 percent with a 10
percent increase in costs and a 10 percent decrease in benefits. At full
development (1990), the total value added generated by the project would be
about US$23 million per annum.
58.       The direct beneficiaries would be about 2,000 small-scale farmers
for the cocoa and coffee components, with an average farm size of less than
5 ha, and 1,050 agrarian reform beneficiaries and landless laborers under the
banana and oil palm component. The present incomes of project beneficiaries
are below the Bank's relative poverty limit set at about one third of Panama's
national income average. In addition to the direct beneficiaries, the project
would require a labor force equivalent to 2,700 full-time jobs at full develop-
ment. About 25 percent of this total would be provided by family labor. At
full development, family income of beneficiaries would increase substantially
as compared to the pre-development income situation: from US$676 to US$1,200
for cocoa; from US$470 to US$1,600 for coffee; and from US$250 to about
US$1,700 for bananas and from US$250 to US$1,500 for oil palm development
(in 1978 prices).
59.       Additional benefits would be the strengthening of COBAPA and
of agrarian reform groups, and improvement of BDA and MIDA capabilities to
provide credit'and technical assistance to farmers.
Risks
60.       Farmers' acceptance of changes in cocoa and coffee varieties and
their willingness to adopt improved technology have been satisfactorily tested
through an ongoing program and there is strong demand for long-term funds for
both cocoa and coffee renovation. Assurances have been obtained that adequate
technical assistance will be provided to sub-borrowers. Panama has a long



- 18 -
tradition as a major producer of bananas. COBAPA is a well managed institution
and has entered into satisfactory marketing arrangements for the export of its
bananas. Although COBAPA has no experience in oil palm production, the risk
attached to the oil palm component is reasonable, given that technical studies
have demonstrated the suitability of the Baru District for production of oil
palm, that oil palm is being produced successfuly across the border in Costa
Rica in an area with similar ecological conditions, and that COBAPA will hire
qualified technical assistance for the duration of the implementation of the
oil palm component.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banco Nacional de
Panama, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Panama and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Special conditions of the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
have been referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the articles
of agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 2, 1979



-19 -                                          Annex I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PANAMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANAMA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                     - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL              75.7                                                      SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       17.1                                   EDST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA 1US$)                   350.0        740.0    1220.0             1066.7      1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       448.0        683.0      865.0            911.1      1525.0       2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, KID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                           1.1          1.4        1.8
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 41.5           47.6       49.6             57.9        52.2
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KME.                        14.0         19.0       24.0             25.6        27.6         55.8
PER SQ. KM0. AGRICULTURAL LAND      75.0         85.0      105.0             77.6       116.4         83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YES.                           43.4         43.7       43.4             42.0        34.8         40.0
15-64 YRS.                           53.0         52.3       52.9             52.2        56.0         55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.6          3.5        3.7              3.7         5.7          3.8
POFULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.9          3.1        3.1              2.7         1.6          2.9
URBAN                                4.3          4.6        3.9              4.3         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       41.0         39.8       36.2             35.8        27.0         31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       10.9           8.7       7.1              9.1         9.9          7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.8          2.8       2.5              2.6          1.9         1.6
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..           ..       15.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..         ..             15.1        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)               82.3        100.0       97.4            102.1       103.8        114.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    102.0        116.0      98.0             103.9       110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            59.0         61.0       61.0             60.3        77.7         89.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         29.0         31.0      30.0              26.7        22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        9.6          7.5        5.8              8.7         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    60.9           64.9       66.5             62.6        63.0        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             58.0         41.0       33.0             56.9       38.2         22.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ,,         70.4      82.0             60.7        67.7         83.0
URBAN                                 ..        100.0     100.0             78.0        83.5        100.0
RURAL                                 ..         43.0      63.0             34.9        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         79.7      87.8             61.1        70.3         57.8
URBAN                                 ''         92.5      97.1             80.3        90.7         99.3
RURAL                                 ..        68.2       78.0             25.4        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            2700.0       1550.0    1230.0           1899.3      1310.8        976.9
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       3460.0 /f   1420.0    1360.0            1220.1       849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              250.0        288.0     266.0            422.3       275.4       325.8
URBAN                                 ..        170.0     149.0            258.2       129.9       250.0
RURAL                                 *-       1530.0    1240.0           2281.6       965.9       770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         26.0      21.0             25.6        18.9        18.7
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                4.7          4.9        ..              5.2        3.9
URBAN                                4.4           ..        ..
RLRAL                                4.9          ..         ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.4         2.2         ..              2.0        0.9
URBAN                                2.1         1.8         ..              2.1        0.8
RURAL                                2.6         2.5         ..              2.7        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               44.0        52.0         ..             51.2       59.2
URBAN                               82.7        90.4         ..             7 7 . 3    78.0
RURAL                               11.0        16.0         ..            12.8        12.5



- 20 -                                         Annex I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PANAMA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PANAMA                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
/a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 96.0       103.0     105.0            103.5       97.6       104.1
FEMALE               94.0       100.0     103.0            102.9       87.4       120.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 29.0        40.0      66.1            37.2        47.8        44.7
FEMALE               32.0        42.0      69.2            37.9        42.6        46.0
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 28.0        32.0      30.0             14.7       22.7        18.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           29.0        29.0      26.0             32.8       25.4        30.6
SECONDARY                         23.0        21.0      23.0            17.8        24.9        16.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       78.3 /R     82.2 /g    ..              74.9       96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        15.0        32.0      39.0            26.9        32.3        53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       159.0       157.0     159.0            173.5      201.9       195.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        10.0       107.0     112.0            69.4        97.7       108.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..        92.0      92.0            72.8        70.9       108.0
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         4.8        ..             4.3         4.4
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      330.0       430.0    490.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  21.2        26.8      28.3            21.4        17.4        26.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             46.1        36.5      30.3            37.8        38.4        25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                13.7        16.9      17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               33.1        29.6      29.4            30.8        33.7        40.1
MALE                                51.1        42.3      41.3             47.2       50.8        55.8
FEMALE                              14.3        16.2      17.0             13.2       12.6        24.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.5       1.4              1.7        1.4         1.6
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   31.1 /h     22.2 /h   22.2 /h         28.9        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  55.3 Th     49.3 /h   47.4 /h         57.7        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.0 7h      4.1 /h    4.6 /h          3A2         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.4 /h     13.8 1h   15.2 /h          10.7       13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..            251.9
RURAL                               ..          ..     266.0            200.6      157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    381.0            403.1       448.8
RURAL                               ..          ..    272.0             258.0      313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      17.0             24.8       23.2
RURAL                               ..          ..      50.0             65.2       54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    Latin America & Caribbean;  /d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /e High Income
(over $2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1963;  /e  Aged 10 years and over;  /h  Income recipients.
September, 1978



-21 -                                                          Annex I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS Of SOCIAL INDICATORS
e The ad4ssred group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the oxtrcme valoen of rhe iodicator ,nd thc cost
populated counety in eaoh group.  Coverage of  -uoatrien among the indicatora depends on uvailability of data cod is not uoifror     Due to lack af data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Efportern and indicators of accesn to water and excreta disponal, huouing, income diboribot-oo cod poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the eaciusion of etrene values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kb)                                                             Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Popolatior (tta
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                        urban, and rural) divided by their renpectivoe nober of honpytal bode
Agrioultural - Most roaent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                 available in public and private general and specialized hoostoi and ee-
or permanently fon crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                   habilitation oceters.   ospitals are ostablsh.ento   ponna..otl  tlffed by
iie fallow.                                                                            at leant one physician.   Establishments providng principallyv ct,od,al
core are not included. Ruu-l hopitals, however, ioclode health and red,-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$5 - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices.,                 cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a cedicol as-
calculated by same conversion method as World bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);              sistent, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                             provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of adnisniao- to or diohaurgos
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of cosaercial energy                    from hospitals divided by the number cf bed.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                   HOUSING
Average aela of iaurehold (peroons per housolald) - otaclHurban, at_d total-
POPULATION AND VITAL SITATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a groop of individuals who share l           .i... .a..tern
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                   and ther main meals.  A boarder or lodger may or mar nor he iloluded in
a                     average of t-o end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                           the household for statistical purpo-e.  Statistical definitiono of hoone-
Urb-n population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                  Average number of persons per room - total, Irbas, and coral - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                               ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural ocoupied  onventionul
Population density                                                                       dwellings, respectively  DSellings e-clude non-per-anent utru-tures and
Per  s. kb. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectaren)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                       Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. k. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                   Conventional dwellings with electoiclty in living quarters an percentage
only                                                                                   of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-aSe
(15-hi years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population                                                                     Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - c. sund annual                   Primary school - total, and female - Total and female enrollment of all ages
growth ratrs of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                      an the primary level as percentages of respectively primary  -chool-age
1960-7l, and 1970-75.                                                                  populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 yours but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thpusand of                     different lengths of primary educution; for  -contries with u..versal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                   cation enrollment may exreed 100 percent since none pupilo are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for east recent estiate,                     above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                   Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as abooe; nocondary edaca-
year popuaition; ten-year arithretic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  ties requires at least four years of approved primary ins truction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                         oiden general vocational, or teacher training instructions Eor pupils
Gross reprodaction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                  usually of 12 ta 17 years of age; correspondence coarsen are generally
in her ma-al -epruductiva period if she epri.fencee present age-                      ecluded.
epecific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocatio-al institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                        clods technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independentlo
F_ily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                        or *a  departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program,                                                                      primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married wusen) - Percentage of                       spending leveln.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in name age group.                                        a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                    CONSUMPTION
Todes of foed production per capita (1970-111) - Index number of per                  Passenger oars (per thousand population) - Passenger cors comprise moto  cars
capita annual production of all food ceimeoditiess                                   seating lens than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requireents) - Computed from                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita              Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Av-ilable supplie  comprise domestic production, imports leas              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; enoludes unlicensed
esporte, and changea in stock.  Net suppliea emclude animal feed, seeds,             receivers in countries and in yearn when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losIs.   in distribution.  Re-               effect; data for recent yearn mey cot be comparable sinre  -ost -cuntrion
quirome-t  waere estimated by PAO based on physiological needs fur nor-              abolished licensing.
mel activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                 TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers fur broadcast to genera
weights, age and sea distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                     tries  and t  years when registratpon of TV sets was in  ffect.
Per capita suppIy of protein (germ  per day) - Protein content of per                 Newspaper circulation (pee nhousand populatien) - Shows rth  average circula-
c-pIta net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined an a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to r-cording general news   It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                  be "daily" if it appears at lust four t..es a week.
of animal and pplse protein, of which 10 gramas should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Bsed on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                  sold during the year, including udmissions to drive-in cinesas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                    units.
FAO in the Third World Pood Survey.
Per capita protin supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food              EIMPLOYM1ENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                   Total labor force (thousands) - icoconically activ- persons, including armed
Child  (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-               forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, studndts, etc   Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tions in various co-tries ure not comparable.
Pemale loarcent) - Female labor fPece us per-ctrage of total lhbor force
HEALTH                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, foresrny, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                       as percentage of total labor force
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                Industry (percent) - Labor force in eining, -contructico, manafacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water amd gas as percentage of total labor fo-c.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Participation rate (oercent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                              female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access tC  safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                These are TLO'u addjstd participation rates reflecting age-sec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasenable access to                   str-ct-re of the papopultia   aind  cong tine  rred.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                 Econo=ic dependency colic - Ratio of population coder 15 cod 65 and aver t
uncontaminated water such as that from  protected boreholes, springs,                  the labor force in age group or 15-64 yers.
and sanitary wells) as perentageas of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountin or standpust located not more                    INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meter  from a house may be considered as being within rea-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
aecable accese of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percect, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                    of houe hold.
spend a disproportionata part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROlPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                Estimated absolate poverty income level (USS per capita) - urban and rare.
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by encreta                      Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a rnonta.'
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential con-food reqairem.e.n  .n rt
disposal amy include the collection and disposal, with or without                      nffordable.
treatment, of human eicreta and waste-water by water-borhd  systems                EItimated relative poveecy income level (US5 per capsta) - urban and rural
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level le- thus  ooe-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                     par oapita personal income of the contry.
physicians qualified from a medic-l school at university level.                     Estiated population below poverty income level (perceit) -    ai aol rural -
Population per nursing persn - POpulatioc divided by somber of                            Percent of population (urban and rura)  .t onre e-tl-o, "or>.lore i° -"  -
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, sod                       "celative poor" whichever is greater.
usuistant nurse.
E-on-rl  aod  Docl    alotion-
Icon-cc Anal1-in and PI,o-ocic- lieport-c



-2 2
Annex I
Page 4 of 5
PANAMA - COUNTRY DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 (Prel.)                                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ tbUn.       'I.                               1963-68            1968-73         1974-77
GNP at Market Prices              2,231.4        100.0                                  7.0               7.2             1.3
Gross Domestic Investment            6cl.l        26.9                                 10.5              11.1            -7.0
Gross National Saving                350.9        15.7                                 14.3               7.1             0
Current Account Balance            -2C0.2       -11.2
Exports of Goods,  NFS               927.1        41.5                                  8.2               4.5            -2.7
Imports of Goods,  NFS            1,093.7         49.0                                  6.5               7.5            -5.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added                     Labor Force-/                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       ¾                   Thou.                             US $             %
Agriculture                          330.4        17.1                 158.7        31.0                2082.0           55.1
Industry                            474.0         24.5                 83.5         16.3                5677.0         150.3
Services                            1129.8        58.4                261.1         51.0                4327.0         114.5
Unallocated                                                              8.7         1.7                   -              -
Total/Average                  .           .
1934.2      100.0                 512.0       100.0                 3778.0         100.0
G,OVERNMENT FINANCE                                                2/3
General Government -/                               Central Government -
(B/. Mln.)           % of GDP                       (B/. Mln.)            7. of GDP
1978                         1976-77                                 1978        1976-77
Current Receipts                                           -               -                  117.5           18.0            16.4
Current Expenditures                        -              -               -                  45(.4           14.8           16.5
Current Surplus                           -19.7           -0.9            0.1                 -41.9           -1.8           -0.1
Capital Expenditures        4/            339.5           14.7           16.5                 141.7            6.1            6-1
External Assistance (net) -               456.1           19.7           14.5                 277.6           12.0            4.9
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1972         1973          1974          1975          1976          1977
(Million B/. outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                         440.4        506.4         596.4         622.1         732.3         791.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   16.3          6.1          71.4         219.0         313.0         315.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 703.5        965.1        1229.3        1279.2        1301.8        1369.7
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP              33.9         34.4          32.5          32.2          36.5          37,1
General Price Index (1963 = 100)              128.1        141.6         1 4.4         210.3         226.7         243.0
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (xwholesale)                8.5         10.5          30.2          14.0           7.8           7.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   -4.0        -63.0        1070.0         207.0          42.9           0.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                  33.1         37.2          27.4           4.1           1.8           5.2
Note: In early 1979, the Government revised downwards slightly its estimates of GDP in current prices. While the ratios on
this page reflect the new GDP estimates, the real increases used stem from the old services, which has not yet been
revised.
I/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly of
unemployed workers seeking their first job.  Excludes collective settlements and indigenous population.
2/ Excludes financial intermediaries.  Includes Government owned enterprises.
3/ Cash basis.
4/ The net eyternal borrowing for 1978 is about B/10C milliont higher than that used for deficit financing in 1978; it will
be used during 1979. The public sector deficit was 15.4 percent of GDF in 1978.
5/ Demand, time and savings depcsits only. The amount of US dollars in circulation is unknown. Balbca issues are limited
to coins.



-23-
Annex I
Page 5 of 5
PANAMA - COUNTRY DATA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                         MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
1974      1975       1976      1977                                           US $ Mln.      %
-M i llion US$)
Bananas                            61.3     24.4
Exports of Goods, NFS -/        751.5      851.5     804.2      844.5           Refined petroleum -                58.6      23.3
Imports of Goods, NFS          -918.4    -992.1    -961.0    -998.2             Shrimp                             27.2     10.8
Resource Gap (Deficit= -)    -166.9    -140.6    -156.8    -153.7               Sugar                              31.9     12.7
Coffee                              3.5      1.4
Interest Payments (net)         -55.0      -20.8     -33.3    - 39.0            All other commodities              68.7     27.3
Workers' Remittances              -          -          -         -
Other Factor Payments (net)       -          -         -          -
Net Transfers                    -4.2       -5.0      -4.5       -6.6
Balance on Current Account    -226.1    -166.4    -194.6    -199.3                 Total                          251.2    100.0
Balance
Direct Foreign Investment        35.4       10.2        7.3       8.0        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1977
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                196.7      206.9     309.7      358.4                                                     US $ Mln.
Amortization                 -93.1      -31.1     -74.2      -89.7
Subtotal                     103.6      175.8     235.5      268.7           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed             1,378.4
Capital Grants                    9.9        6.0       6.5        5.0           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)      2/    -194.8    -155.5    -101.0    -104.9             Total outstanding & Disbursed             1,378.4
Increase in Reserves (-)-       272.0      129.9      46.3       22.4                                     I/
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977 -
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports                      277.4      330.7     265.0      254.2           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              19.9
of which:  Petroleum      271.1     324.2      258.4      247.6          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Exports                      227.5      263.1     187.3      178.5           Total outstanding & Disbursed              19.9
of which:  Petroleum      227.5     263.1      187.3      178.5
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (12/31/1977) (Million US$)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                   IBRD
Through - 1978                                                                  Outstanding & Disbursed            99.1
US $ 1.00 = B/. 1.00                                                            Undisbursed                        92.9
B/.  1.00 = US$ 1.00                                                           Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   192.0
1/  Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods    Non-Factor Services plus workers' remittances.
2/ Net foreign transactions of the banking system.
3/ Excludes sale of bunker oil.
4/ Includes earnings of Panamanians who work in the Canal Zone.
not evailable
not applicalbe
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PANAMA
A.   STATEMENT OF LOANS (as of January 31, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan                                                             (less cancellations)
Number       Year         Borrower               Purpose          Amount   Undisbursed
8 loans    (1953-72)      Fully disbursed                          83.4
901-PAN      1973        BNP                Livestock Credit       4.7           .7
948-PAN      1974        IRHE               Power                 30.0         2.3
1114-PAN      1975        APN                Fishing Port          24.0        10.4
1280-PAN      1976        IDAAN              Water Supply
and Sewerage       12.0         10.5
1397-PAN      1977        BNP                Livestock Credit       8.0          7.9
1398-PAN      1977        BNP                Fisheries Credit       7.5         7.5
1470-PAN      1977        IRHE               Power                42.0         41.7
1565-PAN      1978        Republic           Highway
of Panama          Maintenance        12.0         12.0
1641-PAN      1978        COFINA             Industrial Credit   15.0          15.0
Total (less cancellations)                         238.6        108.0
of which has been repaid                          24.2
Total now outstanding                              214.4
Amount Sold                         9.2
of which has been repaid          4.6              4.6
Total now held by Bank                             209.8
Total undisbursed                                              108.0
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1979)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                      Loan    Equity   Total
1971        Corporacion de Desarrollo Hotelero              1.2     0.3       1.5
1978        Vidrios Panamenos, S.A.                         2.4     1.4       3.8
1979        Banco Latinoamericano de
Exportaciones, S.A.                             -      2.5      2.5
Total gross commitments                        3.6      4.2      7.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, and sales                        0.2     0.0       0.2
Total commitments now held by IFC              3.4      4.2      7.6
Total undisbursed                              1.0      0.9      1.9



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 901:      Livestock Development Project; US$4.7 Million Loan of
June 8, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project finances cattle enterprises, including land reform
settlements involved in dairying, beef breeding and fattening, and technical
services. A study, financed under the loan, of the livestock potential in the
Atlantic Coast region has been completed. Commitments lagged behind appraisal
estimates, due mainly to initial delays in organizing the project unit. The
loan has now been fully committed and the project is expected to be completed
by mid-1980. Preliminary analysis of 17 project farms indicates a favorable
impact on technical coefficients of production and income.
Loan 948:      Third Power Project; US$30 Million Loan of December 4, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is designed to integrate three of the four isolated
major regional electricity systems into a national grid. Main project
items -- the 28 MW diesels, 230 kV lines and substations have been completed.
The only pending items -- some of the subtransmission lines and substations --
are expected to be completed in 1979, about 12 months behind the original
schedule, largely because of initial delays in engineering, bidding and procure-
ment. Project costs are currently estimated at 26 percent above appraisal
estimates in large part due to inflation. The project still yields a satis-
factory economic rate of return.
Loan 1114:      Fishing Port Project; US$24 Million Loan of May 27, 1975;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
The project consists of construction of a new fishing port at Punta
Vacamonte on the Pacific. Marine works were essentially completed in December
1978 and land works are expected to be completed by the end of the second
quarter of 1979. The port is expected to begin operations in August 1979.
Project costs are estimated at 20 percent above appraisal estimates, but the
project still yields a satisfactory economic rate of return.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress cf projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1280:       Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$12 Million Loan of
June 9, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project finances improvements to water supply systems in Panama
City, Colon, Chorrera and Arraijan and a water supply system for the new
fishing port of Vacamonte. It also finances the purchase of water meters.
Funds are included in the loan to improve the organization of the water supply
company and to install new commercial and accounting systems. Project execution
has been slower than estimated at appraisal due in part to a change in manage-
ment of the institution shortly after the loan was approved. Engineering
design is well advanced, but about one year behind schedule because of under-
estimation of design time and the Borrower's initial reluctance to hire
consultants. Physical work on subprojects has now begun. Delivery of a
purchase of 30,000 water meters was received in 1978 and installation should
be completed this year. The institutional reforms contemplated in the project
have been started and the installation of new accounting procedures is now
scheduled to begin in mid-1979.
Loan 1397:       Second Livestock Project; US$8 million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: August 31, 1982.
The project includes financing for small and medium scale milk
producers; for a state-owned livestock breeding farm, and technical assistance.
The project started slowly due in part to changes required in milk legislation
and staff changes in the project unit. The Bank was informed in mid-January
that the Government has decided to change the organization of the breeding
farm, and that it will submit to the Bank a proposal relating to this component
of the project. Loan commitments for the small and medium scale milk producers,
the most important component of the project, have accelerated.
Loan 1398:       Second Fisheries Project; US$7.5 million Loan of April 25, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project includes the construction of ten new purse seiners, the
replacement of five obsolete shrimp trawlers by five new boats, the rehabilita-
tion of ten wooden shrimp trawlers; the relocation of six shrimp processing
plants to the new fishing port at Punta Vacamonte; the development of fresh
water fish and oyster farms, and technical assistance. The contract for the
purchase of the purse seiners has been awarded and they are under construction.
Operational agreements required to disburse for the fresh water fish and
oyster farming components were signed in 1978. The project is proceeding on
schedule.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1470:       Fourth Power (Fortuna Hydroelectric) Project:  US$42 million
of July 1, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project, cofinanced by the IDB and suppliers, consists of the
construction of the 255 MW Fortuna Hydroelectric Project, and associated
transmission as well as technical assistance for organizational improvement
and a training program for the Borrower. The project is expected to be
completed on schedule. The contract for the main generating equipment, which
is being financed with credits from suppliers, has been awarded and procurement
for the dam and diversion works, which will be financed by the Bank has begun.
The organization and training programs, being financed by the Bank are
proceeding on schedule.
Loan 1565:       Highway Maintenance Project:  US$12 million loan of June 30,
1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project finances equipment, spare parts and technical assistance
required to implement a four-year maintenance program which would strengthen
the maintenance capability of the Ministry of Public Works. The project is
about six months behind schedule due mainly to the changes in the Ministry of
Public Works which took place in October 1978. The process of selection of
consultants has begun.
Loan 1641:       Development Banking Project:  US$15 million loan of
January 23, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project would help finance the estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent of subloans and equity investments for the acquisition of fixed assets
and permanent working capital by productive private and public sector enter-
prises in the manufacturing, service and tourism sectors. The loan is not
yet effective.



- 28 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation - Preappraisal
(1) Initial request for Bank financing: April 1977
(2) First Bank mission to consider project: June 1977
(b) Appraisal Mission Departure: February 1978
(c) Negotiations Completed: February 8, 1979
(d) Loan Effectiveness Planned: July 1979
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None contemplated.
III. Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained that:
1.   a qualified professional acceptable to the Bank would be appointed
by BNP as project coordinator (para. 36);
2.   MIDA would make available the services of about 20 coffee technicians
and about 16 cocoa technicians as well as their vehicles and equip-
ment to evaluate loan requests and provide the necessary technical
assistance, and two field officers to supervise the execution of
on-farm investments (para. 37);
3.   COBAPA would act as technical agent for the banana and oil palm
development (paras. 39, 40 and 41);
4.   the Government, in coordination with BNP and the Bank, would
undertake a detailed study describing the corporate organization,
management, financial structure, construction and operations of the
the oil palm processing plant by June 30, 1981; implement recommen-
dations to be agreed upon with BNP and the Bank, and ensure that
such recommendations, including the management, ownership and
financial structure, are not be altered without the Bank's approval
(para. 42);



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
5.   The Government will issue titles to the farmers benefitting from
the coffee and cocoa components, and will grant rights to the
land used by the asentamientos benefitting from the oil palm and
banana components, and maintain an office of MIDA's National
Directorate of Agrarian Reform in Bocas del Toro (para. 43);
6.   MIDA and BDA would prepare by October 31, 1979 terms of reference
for coffee and cocoa consultants and a schedule for their hiring.
The consultants would be appointed by December 31, 1979 (para. 37);
7.   BNP and BDA would provide complementary short-term credit to
carry out the investment plans. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk for the loan (paras. 45 and 47);
8.   BDA would submit reports on the reforms introduced in its
accounting system and on its financial situation not later than
July 31, 1980 (para. 38);
9.   The Government would establish and maintain such policies as shall
be necessary to enable producers of the crops financed under the
project to obtain a reasonable return on their investment; and
would exchange views with the Bank on any new policies or measures
which may adversely affect their development before the applica-
tion of such policies (para. 29); and
10.   It would be a condition of disbursement:
(a) for coffee and cocoa subloans, that (i) a Technical Assistance
agreement for the implementation of the cocoa and coffee
components has been signed between the Government and BDA;
(ii) field officers have been appointed by MIDA; (iii) a
Subsidiary Agreement has been signed between BNP and BDA
for the implementation of the cocoa and coffee component;
(iv) a Financing Agreement has been entered into by MIDA
and BNP for the transfer to MIDA of the funds for technical
assistance and training to be utilized in cocoa and coffee
development (para. 37);
(b) for banana development, that the COBAPA Technical Assistance
Agreement has been signed between BNP and COBAPA (para. 39);
(c) for oil palm development, that (i) the COBAPA Technical
Assistance Agreement has been signed between BNP and COBAPA;
(ii) COBAPA has established an Oil Palm Division; and
(iii) COBAPA has employed on a full-time basis a manager for
the Oil Palm Division and expert technicians to assist in the
implementation of the project (paras. 39 and 41); and



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
(d) for the oil palm processing plant, that the Bank has received
a satisfactory study of the oil palm processing plant, including
detailed engineering and a detailed description of the legal and
financial structure and management of the entity to be respon-
sible for the operation of the processing plant (para. 42).



I BR D 13675
PAINAMAWk                                                                                             ' A' e                 o    7'
TROPCAITEE CROP DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
011,,                                             -PLA~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 00 ROUITE. INCo   RI WNa.w-                            Fre    oeI    -,-anig  
Al                                                                                                                      P.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    RaIO  NNAP NA                    AN                                                 MOoI
~~~CO~~~~   Concepci6n  Gualoco ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~       ~      ~       ~     ~     ~      CO ON..                                                                    CpR.
3  00      LATbL Mea          so1100h--SOIM   i
0'11                        ~11,,iPNM
Is   a . O .   ~ a,o ,a o O 7   0 "   ~   0 1 1.4 II'I   la. 0 a.   S   ND 1
~~.  LOS  SANTOS      a           *      SANSFIGIRCIYIoIE ~ 'AFFS  P500RLA   4 ICoC5U
-                                                                              0      COENEIBS                                          (I)                                                  C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CCS
84                                                           R0,0N   Rs                                          Fri



