                          Document of
                       The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 31020

           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-21708 TF-24845 TF-24846 TF-24847 TF-24851 TF-22359 IDA-26500)

                              ON A

                            CREDIT

      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR$28.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                             TO THE

                     REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA

                            FOR AN

                 EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT




                            01/26/2005

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective December 28, 2004)

                                  Currency Unit = Bolivianos
                                          100 Bs = US$ 12.43

                                        US$ 1.00 = 8.041

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1 to    December 31

                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

SNE       National Education System (Sistema Nacional de Educación)
UNICEF    United Nations Children´s Fund
GTZ       German Agency for Technical Co-operation (Gesellschaft für Technichel
               Zusammenarbeit)
INS       Superior Normal Institutes (Intitutos Normales Superiores)
KfW       German Kreditanstalt Wiederaufbau
IDA       International Development Agency
SIDA      Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
ETARE     Technical Support Team of the Education Reform
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SWAp      Sector Wide Approach
LLECE     Latin American Education Quality Assessment Laboratory (Laboratorio
           Latinoamericano de Evaluación de la Calidad de la Educación)
RDA       Educational and Administrative Personnel Registry (Registro del
               Personal Docente y Administrativo )
CEPOs.      Indigenous Peoples Educational Councils (Consejos Educativos
              de Pueblos Originarios)
SIE       Integrated System of Educatiional Information (Sistema Integrado de
               Información Educativa)
PINS-EIB  Project for Intercultural Bilingual Education Superior Normal Institutes
               (Proyecto de Institutos Normales Superiores de Educación Intercultural Bilingüe)
SIMECAL   Education Quality Measurement and Evaluation System (Sistema de
           Medición y Evaluación de la Calidad de la Educación)



                                Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                   Country Manager/Director:         Marcelo Guigale
                     Sector Manager/Director:        Ana-Maria Arriagada
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Patricia Alvarez

                                           BOLIVIA
                             EDUCATION REFORM PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments (Original)                                          25

Project ID: P006181                                                  Project Name: BO- EDUCATION REFORM
Team Leader: Patricia Alvarez                                        TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 26, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: BO- EDUCATION REFORM                                     L/C/TF Number: TF-21708; TF-24845;
                                                                                                     TF-24846; TF-24847;
                                                                                                     TF-24851; TF-22359;
                                                                                                     IDA-26500
   Country/Department: BOLIVIA                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (29%); Secondary education (28%); Tertiary
                            education (23%); Central government administration (20%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P);
                            Participation and civic engagement (P); Access to urban services for
                            the poor (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 07/20/1990                                     Effective: 08/15/1994                04/18/1995
     Appraisal: 06/28/1993                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/05/1994                                      Closing: 01/31/2002                 07/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOV OF BOLIVIA/MPC/MEC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid S. Husain
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:                 Eduardo Velez Bustillo                         Jacques van der Gaag
Team Leader at ICR:             Patricia Alvarez                               Constance Corbett
ICR Primary Author:             Sergei Soares


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The Education Reform Project's original objective was a broad one: to support the first phase of an
Education Reform Program designed to improve the quality and equity of primary education, strengthen
the ability of the National Education System (SNE) to set policies and guidelines for the education sector,
and strengthen the capacity of the public education system to deliver education services effectively and
efficiently.

The Educational Reform Program, to which this Project provided the core financing for a decade,
amounted to nothing less than an effort to reform almost every aspect of the Bolivian educational
system. After spending most of the 1980s grappling with hyperinflation and the costs of economic
stabilization, the Bolivia of the early 1990s remained a poor, landlocked country with limited natural
resources. This meant, and still means, that there are few alternatives to developing the human capital of
its population. On the other hand, Bolivia's educational system at the time of preparation had been able
to deliver an average of only 4.0 years of schooling to each adult and a full 20 percent had no education
at all.

The need for Educational Reform was clearly recognized by the Bolivian authorities at the time and the
Educational Reform Program was conceived and prepared during the two years preceding the Project
with almost total Bolivian ownership, albeit with considerable donor technical and financial support. It was
preceded by an agreement in 1992 by all major political parties that educational reform would be a State
Policy. The results of the preparation were the Education Reform Law, which laid out the long-run outline
of Bolivia's new education system, and this Education Reform Project, which provided the initial
operational means to achieve it.

The need for Educational Reform was equally recognized by the donor community which provided
considerable support. In addition to the IDA Credit, the Project was also financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank, Swedish SIDA, the Dutch Government, UNICEF, and German Kreditanstalt
Wiederaufbau (KfW). IDA, SIDA, and Dutch funds were pooled and the other funds provided parallel
financing for the Project. UNICEF, UNDP, UNESCO, and USAID, while not involved in Project financing,
was also active in supporting the Reform Program.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Despite an amendment to the Development Credit Agreement and various amendments to the Swedish
and Dutch Grant Agreements, no revisions were made to the above objectives.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of $159.5 million in baseline funds supporting three components. Physical and
price contingencies brought the Project total to $178.9 million, of which IDA Credit 2650, approved on
August 5th of 1994 , financed $40.0 million (SDR 28.8). The remaining $137.9 million were financed as
follows: $52.5 by the IDB, $14.0 by SIDA, $8.5 by KfW, $7.5 by the Netherlands, $12.9 from various
other sources, and $43.5 by the Government itself. The pool formed by IDA, SIDA, and Dutch funds
amounted to $57 million and used World Bank procurement and financial management procedures. The
three Project components were:

System Transformation and Strengthening. This component directly addressed the need for
strengthened governance of the education sector on the part of the National Education Secretariat and
was responsible for 16.0% of base costs. The objectives were to rationalize, reorganize, and decentralize
educational management. It's subcomponents were: (i) registration of teaching and non-teaching
personnel; (ii) rationalization of staffing; (iii) provision of training and technical assistance for technical
and administrative personnel; (iv) social communication for the provision of information and technical




                                                        - 2 -

assistance to community organizations; (vi) design and implementation of an administrative system; (vii)
design and implementation of a system for personnel managing; and (viii) repair and reconditioning of
office space at both central and departmental levels.

Pedagogical Quality Improvement. This component addressed the problem of outdated curriculum and
low educational quality. Special attention was focused on the primary level and the component was
responsible for 71.2% of base costs. It's subcomponents were: (i) transition measures in bilingual and
multi-grade education; (ii) conceptual curricular development; (iii) development, production, and
distribution of school equipment, textbooks, materials and teacher's guides designed around the new
core conceptual curriculum; (iv) provision of school equipment, instructional materials, and materials for
pedagogical support; (v) in-service training and pedagogical advice for teachers; (vi) reform of initial
teacher training; (vii) educational research and pilot programs; and (viii) development and
implementation of a national learning assessment system.

Project Support and Monitoring. This component would address the need to establish technical teams
to coordinate, monitor, and provide technical support for the reform process and was responsible for
12.1% of base costs. This would be done through support for: (i) a Technical Services Division; (ii) a
Management Information Technical Division; (iii) a special Monitoring and Support Unit; and (iv) social
communications and public relations.

3.4 Revised Components:

In 1997 a midterm evaluation of the project was carried out. A workshop using the logframe methodology
was used to make a more precise strategy for obtaining project objectives without changing them, and
make adjustments in components and subcomponents. No components were changed but funds were
reprogrammed in accordance with changing needs.

                        Categories              Original Programming  New Programming      Difference

      Books, materials, and goods                       14,861,111,11      24,049,775.80       9,188,664.69
      Civil works                                        1,305,555.56         410,821.17       -894,734.39
      Consultancy                                        5,500,000.00       6,291,585.04         791,585.04
      Training                                           8,444,444.44       2,314,712.46      -6,129,731.98
      Ministry of Education Salaries                       625,000.00       2,093,192.92       1,468,192.92
      Operating Costs                                    2,569,444.44       1,638,918.79       -930,525.65
      Public Relations                                   2,875,000.00       2,742,114.75       -132,885.25
      PPF                                                  950,000.00         962,031.79          12,031.79
      Other Expenses                                     2,869,444.44               0.00      -2,869,444.44

      Total                                             40,000,000.00      40,503,152.72         503,152.72
      Fuente: Dirección de Administración de
      Proyectos ­ M E


The Table above shows that the most important changes in the uses of the IDA Credit were a reduction
in training with a concurrent and significant increase in books, materials, and goods. The additional
503,152.72 were due to changes in exchange rate expectations between SDR and Dollars.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Satisfactory.
The Project components and subcomponents were prepared by the Technical Support Team of the
Education Reform (ETARE), established in the Planning Ministry to prepare a long term vision for
education in Bolivia and an operational strategy for getting there. Although there was considerable
technical and financial support by the donor community, this was a Project to support a Program
prepared by Bolivians for Bolivians. This means that country ownership of the Project ran deep. It is also
important to look retrospectively at the almost total absence of analytical and planning capacity of the
National Education System at the time of preparation. In this light, the achievements of the ETARE
become even more significant.




                                                           - 3 -

From the Bank point of view, the project was consistent both with the Country Assistance Strategy
discussed by the Board on February 8, 1994 and the existing analytical work undertaken by the Bank
present in the Bolivia Education Sector Strategy: A Proposed Strategy for Sector Development and
International Assistance of November 8, 1993. The Project predates the existence of formal Quality at
Entry Criteria.

A thorough reading of the SAR and the analytical work that preceded it both by the Bank and the ETARE
shows that this Project had a profound grasp of the many shortcomings of the Bolivian educational
system and an intelligent plan for remedying them based upon the best educational international
practices available at the time. If judged by its analytic and academic quality, the Project would be rated
as highly satisfactory at entry.

The Project, however, had two major and two minor shortcomings. The first was that it did not recognize
the limits to complexity and organization, particularly in a country whose institutional capacity was as
limited as the Bolivia of 1994. The Project takes on at once almost all important aspects of education
from a total institutional transformation of the Education Secretariat to a complete reform of the
curriculum. As a mitigation for the excessive complexity, it must be stated that the eight years foreseen
for the Project's execution were an exercise in realism, but the delays and management difficulties that
occurred show that nonetheless the Project was too complex.

The second shortcoming is that insufficient attention was given to the difficult relations with the different
educational actors, especially teachers and their unions. Given the strength and belligerence of teachers
unions in Bolivia, this was an lapse which was to haunt the Project throughout its existence.

A smaller problem was the third component, whose existence as a separate component is not fully
justified. It could have been merged into the first. Equally, insufficient provision was made in the third
component for training education staff in Bank procedures in the areas of financial management and
procurement and problems in these two areas continued throughout the Project lifetime.

The Project could have had better provisions for evaluation of results. The SAR contains no economic
analysis. There are no provisions for ex-post evaluation of Project impacts other than the admittedly
important benchmarks to be attained. The Project defined indicators and benchmarks but established no
strategy to estimate whether they had been met because of the Project. While some of this is explained
by the innovative nature of the interventions and the low technical capacity present at the time in the
Ministry, a good economic analysis or an evaluation strategy would have improved Project design. In all
fairness, though, at the time such issues were not given the importance they are given today.

A final comment that should be made is that the 1994 Education Reform Project, if prepared today,
would be called a project following a Sector Wide Approach. It contained most of the elements of a
SWAp: various donor agencies coordinated to finance a Program through parallel and co-financing with
joint supervision missions and technical assistance. The only major element usually associated with a
SWAp lacking was harmonization of financial management and procurement with country systems
(although IDA, SIDA, and Dutch cooperation pooled resources), as at the time the Bank did not accept
this approach.




                                                    - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory

Annex 1 shows that the Project surpassed or met many of its output monitoring benchmarks. More
importantly, the two outcome benchmarks " gross completion rates" were surpassed by wide margin.
Furthermore, in the ten years during which the Project was active, Bolivian educational indicators not
only showed considerable improvement, but did so more than most of its wealthier neighbors and in the
face of considerable demographic and economic difficulties. Primary and secondary coverage, average
years of schooling, and other key educational indicators in Bolivia are today on par with those of Brazil or
Peru, and considerably above those of other countries in the region with similar income per capita, such
as Honduras or Guatemala. For example, Bolivia has a primary net enrolment rate of 97%, equivalent to
that of Brazil and superior to those of Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia. In the comparative achievement
evaluation undertaken by the Laboratorio Latinoamericano de Evaluación de la Calidad de la Educación
(LLECE) in mathematics, Bolivia ties with Colombia for fifth place out of eleven participating countries.

During project duration, school enrolments grew at an average rate of 4.2% per annum, against 2.4% of
the school-age population. Basic (initial, primary, and secondary) gross enrolment increased from 75.5%
in 1992 to 88.4% ten years later. Fifth grade completion rates, which are the Project's most important
outcome indicator, increased from 72% in 1994 to 95% in 2002 in urban areas and from 28% to 72% in
rural ones. While Project benchmarks for fifth-grade completion were 87% and 50% to be achieved by
1998, the actual rates achieved by that year were 92% and 58%. Primary (eighth grade) completion rates
increased from 55.4% in 1992 to 71.5% in 2001.

Education has also become much more equitable. Female enrolment has grown 24.7% more than school
age female population. The male-female gap has all but vanished and remains significant only in a few
rural municipalities.

The white-indigenous gap in enrolment, while much more stubborn, has also been reduced, particularly
with regards to Aymara speakers. Intercultural bilingual education has been among the most successful
components of the Project and in 2001 there were 2,372 and by 2002 almost three thousand bilingual
schools in Bolivia, which catered to close to half of rural non-castellano speaking students.

How much of this educational success can be assigned to the Project is difficult to quantify but, given
that the Project provided the core financing for the Educational Reform Program which was the
centerpiece of all educational policy during most of the period, it is difficult to argue that it did not have a
central role. Nevertheless, other factors may have had an impact. Among these were: (i) the passing of
the Education Reform Law, which contained many self-applicable provisions needing no or little
financing and, although a result of the Program, not assignable to the Project; (ii) the relatively good
economic performance during the first part of the Project period (from 1995 to 1998, during which GDP
grew at an average of 4.76%); and (iii) the large increases in recurrent educational expenditures,
particularly on teachers, whose real average pay grew by 25%, and in municipal educational
expenditures.

Performance in terms of institutional changes is more difficult to quantify, but all evidence points to a
complete transformation of the Ministry of Education. In 1994, the Education Secretariat of the Human
Development Ministry (the Secretariat only became a Ministry in 1997) did not have an information
system worthy of the name, did not know in which school a given teacher taught (this gave rise to a
serious problem of ghost teachers), and had nothing even remotely resembling a learning evaluation
system. The Education Secretariat had been captured by the two teacher unions and individuals who had
not been trained as teachers were not allowed to hold positions there. Today, the Education Ministry
counts on a technical cadre of competent professionals in many areas such as curriculum, information
systems, statistics, data analysis, and education planning. There are information systems which keep
track of enrolments at the school level, teacher training and assignment, as well as other aspects of the
education system. A state of the art learning evaluation system has been set in place. However, the



                                                     - 5 -

transformation at the departmental (sub-national) level has been less complete and many are still
dominated by political appointees and have weak technical capacity.

In spite of the evident success in educational outcomes and institutional transformation, the Project had
some areas in which its approach could have been improved.

The first area was teacher training, in which the Project took two approaches: (i) the reform of initial
teacher training and (ii) the pedagogical advisors, which were trained to provide on the job training and
advice to teachers and school directors. While the first, in spite of many difficulties, achieved its
objectives, the second was not entirely successful. The pedagogical advisors were a response to an
inefficient supervision system but also a way to take the Reform into the classrooms. A full 1,578
advisors (approximately one per nucleus) were trained and sent out to transform the Bolivian schools.
Unfortunately, there was strong, although far from universal, resistance to the advisors on the part of
teachers, their unions, and particularly directors. In the end, the pedagogical advisors were discontinued,
although this was completely political decision as no evaluation of their effects had been carried out.

Second, the Project suffered considerable problems in the areas of financial management and
procurement. Almost all supervision reports mention problems in procurement, financial management, or
both and lack of adequate reconciliation led to a suspension of disbursements for the IDA Credit and the
Dutch and SIDA Grants from November of 2000 to May 2001. More details are provided in the Major
Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes section of this ICR.


4.2 Outputs by components:
System Transformation and Strengthening
Highly satisfactory

This component achieved or surpassed all its objectives with no major drawbacks. As will be seen in the
Institutional Development Impact Section, the Education Reform Project transformed the Ministry of
Education from an institution at the service of corporatist interests incapable of providing leadership to
the education system into an efficient and competent institution with efficient management and effective
information systems. In addition, a multileveled network of social participation forums was created that
may perhaps be one of the long lasting positive legacies of the Project.

In registration of teaching and non-teaching personnel the following actions were carried out:
systematization of processes for registration of teaching and non-teaching staff, creation of the planilla
de haberes effectively eliminating ghost teachers from the payroll and its operational decentralization to
the district level, implementation of the Registro del Personal Docente y Administrativo (RDA), and also
inclusion of the school codes used by the SIE allowing for matching (with certain difficulty) with
enrolment data for purposes of teacher optimization.

In rationalization of staffing, the needs at the departmental and district directorates were redefined and
administrative personnel at these levels were reduced from 700 to 400.

In provision of training and technical assistance for technical and administrative personnel, 3,097 and
4,381 school directors were trained in 2000 and 2001, respectively. All district directors were trained as
were most of department level staff. The quality of the training, however, is not clear and there has been
insufficient follow-up. This subcomponent was not as effective as it could have been given the absence
of adequate norms for civil service training.

In social communication for the provision of information and technical assistance to community
organizations is where the Project has some of its best results. Previous to the Reform, there was little
parent participation in school decisions and most of what existed was limited to helping in small repairs.
With the Education Reform Law the legal framework for popular participation in education was laid out.
The Project financed training of 13,900 Juntas Escolares, 1,800 Juntas de Núcleo / Juntas de Red, 269
Juntas de Distrito, and the four Consejos Educativos de Pueblos Originarios (CEPOs). While
effectiveness of popular participation varies considerably from one Núcleo to the next, there is little




                                                     - 6 -

doubt that opening the schools to the community is one of the Project's major achievements. The
CEPOs, in particular, have become important educational actors fundamental in the sustainability of the
Project's actions. In addition, the popular participation subcomponent was coherent with other Bolivian
initiatives of the time, such as the Popular Participation and Decentralization Laws.

Design and implementation of an administrative system for the reorganized education system. The
Sistema Integrado de Información Educativa (SIE) is one of the star products of the Project. A modern,
flexible system has been developed which can be used for educational planning as well as analysis. The
SIE is a school-based information system with data on enrolments, student flow, and selected school
characteristics. One challenge that remains is better integration with other information systems, such as
the RDA.

In design and implementation of a system for personnel management, the original aim was to redesign
the teacher's pay scale "escalafón docente" as foreseen by the Law 1565. However, due to the inability
to agree with the unions on how to proceed, this was replaced by a series of incentives which were
created with the objective of rewarding desired behaviors and a competitive examination system was
developed to allow promotion from one level of the esclafón to the next. While this does not entirely
substitute a wholesale revision of the escalafón, it does achieve Project objectives of providing
incentives for teachers.

In repair and reconditioning of office space at both central and departmental levels, the office space was
reconditioned at the central level and in all but two departments in which the inexistence of adequate
buildings owned by the Ministry did not allow it.

Pedagogical Quality Improvement
Satisfactory
While the achievements of the Bolivian Educational Reform financed by the Project are remarkable and
the outcomes surpassed expectations, several subcomponents suffered from delay and other problems
and at least one was not entirely successful. In particular, implementation of the curricular transformation
was not as fast as originally planned, although it did achieve its objectives.

The Reform's achievements in bilingual education are considerable. Bolivia is the only country in Latin
America with an indigenous population superior to one-third of the population that has succeeded in
providing bilingual education to more than one third of this population in rural areas. Furthermore,
bilingual education was fully integrated into the structure of the Ministry of Education, as opposed to
other countries in which a para-Ministry was created to run bilingual schools. Bilingual curricular
development is done by the Direction of Curricular Development, bilingual teacher training is done in
some of the same normal school system that trains Spanish-only teachers (supported by PINS-EIB, half
of the 18 teacher training schools are specialized in EIB: four in Quechua, two in Aymara, two are
trilingual Quechua-Aymara-Castellano, and one Guarani and other languages of eastern region), and
bilingual testing is carried out by SIMECAL. Quantitative evaluation of the Reform is limited, but
available evidence suggests that bilingual education has a positive effect upon educational attainment of
indigenous groups.

Multigrade education, while receiving less attention and evaluation than bilingual education, was
successfully carried out. A methodology based on the proven Escuela Nueva model was developed,
materials were produced, and teachers trained.

The three subcomponents, conceptual curricular development; development, production, and distribution
of school equipment, textbooks, materials and teacher's guides; and provision of school equipment,
instructional materials, and materials for pedagogical support, are closely linked and comprise the
curricular transformation of the Education Reform. The curricular transformation began with various
studies and the identification of eight innovative experiences from which a common trunk was
elaborated. This common trunk would be amendable to regional and local needs, although
regionalization of the curriculum has been limited and carried out mainly in the framework of the
educational projects.



                                                     - 7 -

Once the content of the trunk curriculum was established, the production of student workbooks began for
grades one through three. In 1996, the first materials arrived in 350 educational nuclei. From 1996 to
1998 the curricular proposal was adjusted and in 2000 an international bidding process was begun for the
production of teacher's guides and student workbooks for grades four to six. Altogether, eight language
and eight math modules were financed in four languages and a total of 6,464,200 units were produced.
Considerable delays occurred in curricular transformation which were related to both the complex nature
of the task and to various procurement problems. An additional problem has been the rejection of the
new material by many teachers, particularly those who were older and had more union connections.
Furthermore, the production of materials was unable to keep up with the progression of cohorts through
grades so that children who studied using constructivist materials in the first three grades had to go back
to learning by repetition in grade four. This was especially serious in bilingual education in which delays
left many children stranded with vernacular language materials and no means for transitioning into
Spanish. Despite these problems, there can be little doubt that Bolivia's pedagogy by repetition has been
largely replaced by a newer and more effective constructivist approach.

Complementary to the individual teacher's guides and student workbooks, Pedagogical Resource
Centers comprised of a library, VCR, television units, furniture, and other pedagogical materials were
distributed to 1,030 educational nuclei. This fell short of the objective of supplying all 1,800 nuclei with
Pedagogical Resource Centers, but anecdotal evidence points to their good use in schools.

The provision of in-service training and pedagogical advice for teachers sub-component fell short of its
objectives. Considerable resources were spent training and paying 1,578 pedagogical advisors which
were assigned to take the Reform to the educational nuclei. The advisors were well trained and
competitively chosen and little technical fault can be found with this process. However, the pedagogical
advisors were politically mishandled. Due to strong pressure by directors and unions against the
presence of individuals telling them how to run their schools and classrooms, in April 2003 the advisors
were discontinued and integrated back into the system as teaching staff. Anecdotal evidence exists of
many schools in which the advisors were well-received but there also they were discontinued.

 The reform of initial teacher training has been a long and difficult process which nevertheless has
 produced a transformed teacher training system. The original idea was that the Normal Schools would
 produce plans for their own transformation into Superior Normal Institutes (INS) and that the teaching
 profession would be opened to university graduates. Various efforts were made at transforming the
 Normal Schools from within but none produced the desired transformation. The solution was to establish
 new rules, organization schemes, and curricula, and then hire universities for implementation,
 subordinating the Normal Schools to public and private universities. Today, ten INS are being run by
 nine universities with the remaining eight still under direct Ministry administration but nevertheless
 transformed. Also important was the establishment of bilingual teaching in nine INS. While encountering
 more difficulties than expected, there is little doubt that the Project's objectives were achieved in this
 sub-component.

 The objective of the educational research and pilot programs sub-component was to support the other
 sub-components, particularly curricular development. In this it was successful.

 A modern national learning assessment system, based on Item Response Theory and called SIMECAL
 was financed by the Project. The technical quality of the SIMECAL is highly satisfactory but its
 institutional placement is awkward. The SIMECAL was created as a semi-autonomous entity
 subordinated to the Minister of Education but removed from the structures of the Ministry. This means
 that it had neither the legitimacy of an office entirely outside nor the usefulness of being an integral part
 of the Ministry. The result is that, in spite of producing excellent learning assessments, its use in
 education policy or planning has been limited. In additional, Bolivian participation in international
 evaluations was limited to LLECE and thus Bolivians lost one of the important levers for bringing
 educational quality to the forefront of debate, which are the comparisons with other countries.




                                                      - 8 -

 In conclusion, given the successes in educational achievement and attainment for which the
 Pedagogical Quality Improvement Component was probably responsible, the tendency would be to rate
 this component as highly satisfactory. Nevertheless, there were some shortcomings. These were for the
 most part addressed throughout implementation by alternative solutions and redirection of efforts and
 did not compromise the achievement of the objectives, but the rating best suited for this component is
 satisfactory.

Project Support
Satisfactory
At the time the Project was planned, project implementation units were in vogue and this component was
thought out with this in mind. However, the Ministry and donors wisely realized that a PIU would reduce
sustainability and the PIU was abolished a few months after implementation began. Perhaps this
component should have been merged with the System Transformation and Strengthening Component,
with which most of its actions are compatible. In any case, the monitoring and technical support actions
carried out were in accordance with Project objectives.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

No NPV or ERR were calculated for the Project and it is not clear how to do so for such an ambitious and
complex Project. Furthermore, no evaluation plan exists for the Project so it is difficult to do an ex-post
ERR.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the Project was high. As explained above, the Ministry of
Education has been transformed from an institution captured by corporatist interests into an effective
educational management institution. New information systems, a technically competent professional
cadre, and also new installations and equipment have made the Ministry into a totally different institution
than the one which existed previous to 1994. Equally important, the social participation forums created
have taken root in the educational system and are exerting positive influence throughout the Bolivian
Educational System.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The most important factor outside the control of government which has had a strong negative impact
upon the execution of the Project is the economic and political crisis which hit Bolivia with the
devaluation in 1998 of the Brazilian Real and the ensuing crisis in Argentina. While from 1995 to 1998,
GDP grew at a healthy if not spectacular 4.76% per annum, from 1999 to 2003 it grew at a mere 1.88%
with GDP per capita declining by 0.57% per year on average thereafter. The first effect of this was a
deterioration of public finances: the overall budget balance, which averaged ­3.6% of GDP from 1995 to
1998, had fallen to -7.9% by 2001 and the central government debt had risen to 70% of GDP. This
placed pressure on all sectors, including education, to cut spending.

More seriously, this prolonged economic crisis led to a political crisis which culminated in the violent
overthrow of the second Sanchez de Lozada administration in October of 2003. During this crisis year,
IDA disbursements to the Project amounted to $146 thousand and were 23 times smaller than the
Project's ten year average and 91 times smaller than the $13.4 million disbursed during 1995. In
addition, the progressive eroding of governance brought on by the crisis percolated into the Ministry of
Education, although it has been partially reverted.




                                                     - 9 -

Conversely, the positive economic and political environment previous to 1998 was a positive factor in
Project implementation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The most important and recurring difficulty faced by the Education Reform and its implementation team
was the difficult relation with the educational actors, in particular with the two teacher's unions.
Sometimes the Ministry was able to face down the unions, particularly when it managed to galvanize
public opinion in its support. This was the case with popular participation in schools, which was initially
vigorously opposed by the unions. Sometimes, the Ministry was unable to stand union pressure and
backed down from its policies. This was the case with the pedagogical advisors and also with the revision
of the teacher pay scale. It is difficult to classify poor relations with a belligerent union as either within or
outside the scope of government control, but the fact that when the Ministry faced the unions with
popular opinion on its side it was generally successful and when it did not it usually failed shows that
more attention should have been paid, from the beginning, to relations with unions and other educational
actors.

A very positive factor was the continued support given to the Educational Reform by successive
administrations. The Reform was prepared during the Paz Zamora administration (1989-1993). It was
initially implemented by the first Sanchez de Lozada administration (1993-1997) and given continuity by
the Banzer (1997-2000) and Quiroga (2001-2002) administrations. In spite of changes in the ruling
coalition from one administration to the next and changes in the Minister of Education, the Reform core
staff were maintained from one to the next as were the most important policies of the Reform. This
means that the Education Reform, like economic stabilization, acquired the status of State Policy and not
the policy of one or another administration. This experience is highly unusual in Latin America, in which
educational policies rarely last longer than the term of a President, and was one of the secrets of the
Reform's success.

A final positive factor was the preparation of the Bolivia Education Quality and Equity Strengthening
Project (IDA Credit 3096) during 1998. The Education Quality Project which complemented the
Education Reform Project with actions in municipal educational development, higher education, girl's
education, and actions undertaken by the Social Investment Fund in education. The Quality Project was
a complement to the Reform Project in supporting the Program and thus was important in enhancing the
actions of the latter.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The most important positive factor, subject to implementing agency control, was the presence and
continuity of a committed and highly competent group of people who designed the Reform and played a
key role in its implementation.

The most important adverse factor subject to the control of the Ministry of Education were problems in
financial management and procurement. Among the problems that were most often reported by
supervision reports were: (i) delays in audits caused by the facts that auditors did not have all relevant
information, (ii) lack of reconciliation between financial statements, (iii) lack of coordination between
technical and operational units within the Ministry, (iv) inexistence of integrated systems in the first years
of the project, and (v) very large differences between planned expenditures in the beginning of the year
and executed expenditures at the end of the year (in 2001, 33% of expenditures and 24% of activities
were different from planned). Supervision reports, while lauding the considerable advances obtained by
the Project, almost all mention weak financial management as a problem. Disbursements were
suspended in 2001 due to problems in financial management and reconciliation of expenditures. It is
important to mention that ill intent is never mentioned in supervision reports and interviews with both
Bank and Government officials are clear that these shortcomings were the result of inexperience and
changes in personnel.




                                                       - 10 -

While in procurement the situation did not lead to a suspension in disbursements, it also remained a
weak point in Project implementation. Recurrent problems in procurement were: (i) delays in preparation
of procurement documentation, (ii) inadequate account keeping, and (iii) lack of coordination between
technical and operational units within the Ministry.

From 31 of August of 1998, procurement was outsourced to GTZ. In October 2002, procurement
responsibility was contracted out to the firm Kendall de la Rocha, which managed procurement until
2004. Decree No 27328 of 2004 prohibited contracting out of procurement services and now this work is
to be done by the Dirección de Administración de Proyectos subordinated to the Dirección General de
Asuntos Administrativos. Whatever the modality chosen, the problems cited above persisted. It should
be mentioned that audits have never found any indication of ill intent or misprocurement and that the
reasons behind these shortcomings were the same: rotation of personnel, inexperience with Bank rules,
and lack of coordination between technical and operational units.

The problems in financial management and procurement reflect both the high complexity of the Project
and a certain inattention to these details on the part of the Ministry, which was far more preoccupied with
the content of the Education Reform Project. This differential attention is reflected in the stability of the
teams over the reform years: while the technical staff in education information systems, in statistical
analysis, in curricular development, and in achievement tests has remained essentially stable, staff in
procurement, financial management, and other operational areas has faced high rotation and not been
as highly qualified as those in the technical areas.

A more positive interpretation of this difference is to say that the quality and stability of the technical staff
has had a positive impact upon Project implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Project costs as estimated at appraisal totaled $159.5 million, plus $19.4 in contingencies. Due to the
financial management limitations mentioned before, we are unable provide details of project component
financing by other donors, but it is possible to compare programmed and actual expenditures by
component for the IDA Credit, which provided 22% of financing.

Components 1 and 3 were estimated to cost $4.3 and $7.4 million, respectively. Once it was decided that
no PIU was needed, expenditure accounting for the two was merged and expenditures totaled $13.9
millions, exceeding the initial estimate by 17.6%, or $2.0 million. The difference was due for the most
part to considerable advancement in administrative and information systems that led to better outcomes
than originally planned.

Component 2 was estimated to cost $24.6 million. Actual expenditures totaled $22 million. The shortfall
was due mostly to the pedagogical advisors, which were discontinued and accounted for only 11% of the
$5.7 million foreseen. On the other hand, more was spent on curricular development.

Analyzing only information relating to IDA financing is of limited value as the Project was conceived as a
whole, integrating financing provided by bilateral and multilateral donors. However, due to financial
management limitations, it is not possible to obtain definitive data on expenditures by component as
financed by other donors.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Highly likely

Policy sustainability for the actions of the Project is almost certain because it provided the financing
cornerstone for the Reform Program which was the core of education policy in Bolivia over the last ten
years. Although the very successes of the Education Reform in educational results and in creating new
mechanisms of popular participation have created new challenges which will take the Reform in a
different direction in the future, its achievements of are strong and there is little chance of going back on



                                                     - 11 -

them. Changes in curricular approaches, in popular participation, in language of instruction for
non-Spanish speakers, in information systems, and perhaps most of all in management culture are
unlikely to change since they are now part of the day to day running of the National Education System.
The Project helped change educational power structures and this is permanent.

Another very positive aspect from the point of view of sustainability is that the Education Reform Project
had no Project Implementation Unit and all Project components and sub-components were implemented
by the Ministry itself. This means that the core actions have all been mainstreamed into the Ministry, the
key Project technical staff are Ministry staff and not PIU consultants, and the ownership of the Project by
the Ministry is very high. The operational responsibilities in financial management and procurement,
which have at one time or another been outsourced, refer to Bank-imposed restrictions that will no longer
exist once the Project no longer exists.

Financial sustainability is a different matter. The Ministry of Education has become highly dependent
upon donor support for investments in education and during the last four years the Ministry share in
investment has varied between 8% and 36%. Due to rising recurrent expenditures, particularly teacher
pay, the fiscal space for additional educational investment has become constrained. The investments
made in teaching materials, textbooks, teacher's guides, school furniture, office installations, and
libraries will gradually depreciate if not maintained by an adequate level of new investment. The
Government, however, is taking the necessary steps to ensure commitments from international
cooperation, including the Bank, which are adequate for its educational investment needs over the next
four to eight years. It must be stressed that the growth levels attained by Bolivia during the 1990s, if
recovered, are enough to open further fiscal space for educational investments in the medium term.

A final important fact is that public expenditures in non-university education increased from 3.5% of GDP
in 1995 to 4.7% in 2002. Part of this was due to increases in teacher pay that was not directly linked to
the Project. Part of this increase in expenditures, however, responded to more children attaining more
grade levels and this was a result of the Project.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Since there was no PIU and the Project was implemented as part and parcel of the regular operations of
the Ministry, the transition arrangements are automatic. Once the Project ends, little will change from
the technical or managerial points of view.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
 Satisfactory.

The 20/20 vision of hindsight shows limitations in identification and appraisal of the Project, which
resulted in the difficulties pointed out in part three of this ICR. Among these were the absence of: (i) an
economic analysis or evaluation methodology for the Project and (ii) a strategy for dealing with
resistance from the two teacher unions. However, placed in the position of a task manager faced with the
challenge of reforming an entire educational system with an inoperative Education Secretariat, few would
have done better.

The Project was consistent with previous economic and sector work and the preparation of the strategy,
although a Bolivian endeavor, was strongly supported both financially and technically by the Bank and
other donors. The Project was prepared in constant dialogue between the ETARE, the Bank, and other
donors. Coordination between donors was also an important achievement of the lending activity.

7.2 Supervision:
Satisfactory.




                                                     - 12 -

The staffing of a supervision team in the Bolivia Country Office was of crucial importance in the success
of this Project. Given its complexity, the initial lack of operational capacity of Ministry staff, and the
inherent difficulties of working within World Bank financial management and procurement guidelines, if
supervision had been left to missions coming from Washington twice a year, the operational difficulties
would have overwhelmed the implementing agency. The importance of this strategic decision cannot be
overrated and probably made the difference between the Project's potential failure and its final success.
Of course, some tasks could have been given more emphasis, such as training of Ministry staff in
procurement and financial management.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Highly Satisfactory.

The Secretariat of Education in 1992 was an institution captured by teacher unions. Individuals not
trained as teachers were not permitted to hold positions within the Secretariat. Both the capacity for and
the interest in planning an education reform were close to zero. The bold step of establishing the ETARE
within the planning Ministry and staffing it with the best and brightest educational researchers and
educational planners was the pivotal point in starting the a reform process which finally produced the
Program supported by the Project. While the Project has some limitations already discussed, there can
be little doubt that the very high quality of the ETARE and its work was the key to launching the Reform.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Satisfactory.

The Government of Bolivia provided constant political support for the Education Reform through various
administrations and maintained core technical teams in the Ministry throughout the process. While there
were problems in macroeconomic management, the political support given to the Reform alone would be
enough to guarantee a rating of satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Satisfactory.

Given the huge achievements of the Bolivian Education Reform under Project financing, rating the
performance of the Ministry of Education as merely satisfactory appears unjust. Nevertheless, there were
recurring problems in procurement and financial management, already discussed, which make the rating
satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The experience Educational Reform Project is rich in lessons learned both from what was done right and
from what could have been done better.

Political

Providing choice in innovative educational approaches is important. When disseminating a new
strategy for innovation, choice is an important instrument. Both anecdotal and quantitative evidence
exists showing that bilingual education was successful when supported by the educational community
and failed when teachers or parents opposed it. Also the pedagogical advisors should have been sent
only to those schools which wanted them. While the process of change is slower when change is chosen



                                                    - 13 -

rather than imposed, the results are almost invariably better.

Relations with teacher unions are fundamental in education reform. Whether the approach chosen
is confrontation or cooperation, a clear though flexible strategy is needed. Poor relations with unions may
haunt an educational reform project throughout its life. Furthermore, if cooperation is chosen, union
leaders must be listened to when designing educational policy. Equally, other educational actors must be
consulted when choosing future educational reforms.

Popular participation was key to the success of the Project. Bringing parents into the schools with
some kind of decision making power was fundamental for Bolivia's educational achievements. In many
cases there was conflict with teachers and in others (such as El Alto) parents usurped powers that should
not be rightfully theirs such as enrolment decisions, but the overall result was undoubtedly positive.
Equally, the other popular participation forums such as the CEPOs have acquired a life of their own
represent permanent changes in political culture of the educational sector in Bolivia.

Administrative and Operational
Not having a Project Implementation Unit was a correct decision. In spite of the difficulties in
financial management and procurement which would no doubt have been less dramatic had there been a
PIU, the fact that sustainability of policy changes supported by the Project is almost automatic more than
compensates.

Not having a competent operational team trained in procurement and financial management was
detrimental to implementation. While the Project was implemented with excellent development results
despite the operational problems in procurement and financial management, there is no doubt that the
lack of a competent team in these areas within the Ministry was a major obstacle. The curricular
transformation was particularly besieged with procurement problems which, among other problems,
delayed reception of adequate instructional materials for most children in Bolivia until almost ten years
after the approval of the Project.

The presence and continuity of high-quality technical teams was also fundamental. The high
quality technical teams that remained in place and cohesive from the planning stage in 1993 to the end
of the Project in 2003 was one of the key factors in the success of the Project. While these teams were
not, and still are not, adequately institutionalized, continuous political support at the highest levels for the
policies they developed and implemented was key to project success.

An adequate education information system is fundamental. The SIE provided the compass to guide
educational policy throughout the Reform. Elimination of ghost teachers, optimization of teacher
allocation, adequate projections of enrolments, and educational planning in general could not have been
undertaken without an adequate information system such as the SIE.

Education quality assessment can be either within or outside the Ministry structure, but not in
between. The SIMECAL is a high quality assessment system, but its impact have been modest due to its
awkward institutional placement. The SIMECAL was neither created entirely outside the Ministry so as to
ensure total impartiality nor within the Ministry decision structure so as to provide guidance for
educational policy decisions. This awkward semi-independent placement has prevented the SIMECAL
for exercising its full potential, in spite of its technical excellence. A strong recommendation is that
SIMECAL be integrated into the SIE.




                                                      - 14 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
With letter dated January 25, 2005, the Borrower provided comments and observations to the ICR. The
Borrower expressed its general agreement with the draft ICR, but manifested its disagreement with the
project's institutional development rating. (See Annex 8 for original comments).

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                   - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Indicator/Matrix                                                      Projected in Actual/Latest
                                                                         last PSR      Estimate

OUCOME INDICATORS
Systemic Efficiency
Number of students per teacher in urban areas                             25            29

Percentage of cohort completing fifth grade equivalent                                  83
    ·   Urban                                                             87            95
    ·   Rural                                                             50            72
Percentage of cohort completing 2nd cycle of new system (6th grade
equiv.)                                                                                 79
    ·   Urban                                                             89            95
    ·   Rural                                                             55            62



OUTPUT INDICATORS
System Organization
Cumulative number of nucleos organized                                1,800         1.790
Cumulative number districts organized and staffed                       300           275
Cumulative number of school plans prepared                            10,800

Number of staff trained - Central Level                                 150             nd
Number of staff trained - Departmental Level                            420             nd
Number of staff trained - District Level                              2,105             nd


Participation
Cumulative number of school councils operating                        10,800        13,858
Cumulative number of nucleo councils operating                        1,800         1,790
Cumulative number of district councils operating                        300           275


Educational Quality
Number of new pedagogical advisors trained                              900         1,083
Number of teachers trained in workshops                              386,178       227,121
Cumulative number of pedagogical resource centers established         1,800         1,788
Cumulative number of schools with books, equipment, materials         10,800        12,106




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

NA. This information is not available due to the difficulties in financial management and procurement by
the project.




                                                   - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

While no economic analysis of the project was undertaken, it is possible to calculate an ex-post internal
rate of return. The table below shows the expected income in Bolivianos of an individual with different
levels of education as well as the probabilities of attaining these levels in 1994, 2002, and a
counterfactual using 2002 transition probabilities up to the end of primary and 1994 probabilities
thereafter. In other words, it is supposed that all improvement in flow rates up to the end of primary is
attributable and none of the improvement in flow rates after the beginning of secondary is. These are
obviously ad hoc assumptions but allow an exercise to be undertaken.


                                                                 Probabilities of Completion
                                                      Expected
                       Schooling                       Income  1994     2002     Counterfactual
                       None or first year                  294   76%      96%       96%
                       End of Second Primary Cycle         513   31%      76%       76%
                       End of Primary                      563   27%      66%       66%
                       End of Secondary                    769   16%      45%       40%
                       Complete Higher                   1,307    3%      18%        7%



This exercise provides an expected income of Bs 692.82 for a cohort of children entering a hypothetical
1994 educational system, Bs 1620.12 for the same children entering a 2002 system, and 1448.43 for the
same cohort entering a system which looks like the 2002 system up to the end of first grade and the
1994 system thereafter. Cohorts of Bolivian children born went from 160 thousand strong in 1987 to 222
thousand in 2001.

The following assumptions are made: linear imrovements in educational flow rates throughout project
life, labour occupation rate of 65% for all, roughly one repetition for every three years of schooling
completed, and that children begin working at age 15 or when they finish their education, whatever is
greater. A social income stream beginning in 2002 (when the first part of the 1987 cohort leaves the
school system and enters the labor market) and continuing thereafter can be calculated and compared to
the cost stream for the project. Given these assumptions, the table below shows income streams for
project benefits and costs.


                                      Accumulated Income
                                           Streams            Accumulated Discounted Streams
                                          ($ million)                   ($ million)

                           Year          Benefits   Costs       Benefits   Costs    Difference

                          1995              0.00     14.86         0.00     14.86        -14.86

                          2000             34.41 118.00           22.68     93.26        -70.58

                          2005            286.95 206.76          150.14 143.84             6.30

                          2010            624.15 206.76          264.22 143.84          120.38

                          2015           1008.30 206.76          350.39 143.84          206.55

                          2020           1407.11 206.76          409.36 143.84          265.52


The income streams above yields a social rate of return of 24% and a Net Present Value (in 1995 at 8%
discount rate) of $255 million. Of course these good results depend on the assumptions made with
relation to student flow and project causality.




                                                         - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/06/1991                2    Task Team Leader, Consultant
              09/06/1991                1    Division Leader
              11/18/1991                2    Director, Res. Rep.
              12/04/1991                2    Economist, Consultant
              05/23/1992                2    Economist, Education Specialist
                08/10/1992              1       Economist
                10/05/1992              3      Economist, Education
                                             Specialist,
                03/29/2003              4      Consultant
                                               Economist, Education
                                             Specialist,
                                               Consultants,

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/28/1993              17     One task team leader, four
                                             education specialists (teacher
                                             training, bilingual education,
                                             curriculum development and
                                             gender), three institutional
                                             development specialist
                                             including decentralization
                                             issues, three community
                                             and/or NGO participation
                                             specialists, two financial and
                                             fiscal specialists, one
                                             costs/procurement specialist,
                                             two management
                                             information and school
                                             mapping systems specialist
                                             and one communication
                                             specialist.

              12/13/1993                     Team Leader, Education
                                             Specialist, Economist,
                                             Procurement Specialist, Fiancial
                                             Analyst, Disbursement Officer,
                                             Management Specialist,
                                             Consultant




 Supervision
              10/17/1994                2    One economist and one                S               S
                                             education specialist



                                              - 19 -

02/04/1995    2 One economist and one Pproject     S    S
                Implementation Specialist

10/5/1995     4 One project implementation
                Specialist and Task Team
                Leader, One Education
                Economist; Two Education
                Specialist; One Financial
                Management Specialist and One
                Project Implementation
                Assistant;

10/04/1996    6 One Education Assessment           S    S
                Specialist; two education
                specialist; two education
                economist; and one economist

01/24/1997    8 Team Leader, Implementation        S    S
                Specialist, Two Education
                Specialist, Education Economist,
                Operations Officer, Res. Rep.,
                Team Leader, Operations
                Officer, Procurement Specialist,
                Consultant.

11/17/1997    4 Team Leader, Operations
                Officer, Procurement Specialist,
                Consultant

10/19/1998    5 Team Leader, Operations
                Officer, Communications Officer,
                Consultants

05/17/1999    2 Education Specialist, Operations
                Officer

11/10/1999    7 Team Leader, Operations
                Officer, Rural Development
                Specialist, Sr. Financial
                Management Specialist,
                Procurement Assistant,
09/25/2000    7
                Team Leader, Operations
                Officer, Procurement Specialist,
                Sr. Financial Management
                Specialist, Consultants
11/14/2001    3
                Team Leader, Operations
                Officer, Procurement Specialist
10/16/2002    3
                Team Leader, Operations
                Officer, Procurement Specialist



                - 20 -

               12/15/2003              4
                                           Team Leader, Procurement
                                           Specialist, Fin. Management
                                           Spec.

 ICR
               08/24/2004             5     Education Specialist,
                                            Operations Officer,
                                            Procurement Specialist, Fin.
                                            Management Specialist



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                        513,306.
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                              53,000.
  Supervision                                                     596,555.04
  ICR                                                              22,759.49
  Total                                                         1,185,620.53




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Other refers to indigenous development.




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Boletín Estadístico No. 316. Banco Central de Bolivia. December 2002.

Contreras, Manuel and Talavera, Maria Luisa. The Bolivian Education Reform, 1992-2002, Mimeo. 2003.

Bolivia's preliminary proposal for EFA ­ FTI. Ministry of Education. Mimeo. 2002.

¿Cómo está la educación en Bolivia? Indicadores, cifras y resultados. Ministerio de Educación. Mimeo.
2003.

La educación en Bolivia: Indicadores, cifras y resultados. Ministerio de Educación. UNICOM. 2004.

La educación en Bolivia: La Experiencia de la Asesoría Pedagógica. Ministerio de Educación. Dirección
de Comunicación Social. 2004.

Staff Appraisal Report: Bolivia Education Reform Project. World Bank Washington, DC. 1994.

Boletín Informativo UPF. No. 3 Ministerio de Hacienda. June 2003.

Bolivia Public Expenditure Review. World Bank. 2004.

Bolivia Education Sector Briefing. World Bank Bolivia Country Office. Mimeo. 2002.

La educación en Bolivia: Estadísticas Municipales. Ministerio de Educación. Dirección de Comunicación
Social. 2004.

Contreras, Manuel and Talavera, Maria Luisa. The Bolivian Education Reform, 1992-2002, Mimeo. 2003.




                                                   - 24 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments (Original)




                                   República de Bolivia
                                  Ministerio de Educación




                                  COMENTARIOS

                      SOBRE EL INFORME FINAL DE CIERRE

      (TF-21708 / TF-24845 / TF-24846 / TF-24847 / TF-24851 / TF 22-359 / AIF-2650




                                 La Paz, enero 25 de 2004




                                         - 25 -

A. Comentarios a las calificaciones principales del desempeño

Resultado:      S/Satisfactorio. El ME está de acuerdo con esta calificación. El éxito en el
                logro de resultados de acceso, permanencia, calidad y equidad en la
                educación primaria, así como en la transformación institucional del SEN son
                evidentes. Sin embargo, el ME coincide con el informe de cierre en que los
                programas de capacitación, la asesoría pedagógica y los ajustes en el
                escalafón docente no han sido suficientes como para alcanzar los resultados
                planteados en cuanto al mejoramiento del desempeño del personal docente.

Sostenibilidad: HL/Altamente Probable. El informe de cierre elaborado por el ME en
                agosto del año 2004 señalaba que debido a la apropiación de los nuevos
                procesos de aprendizaje­enseñanza en las aulas de primaria y a la
                institucionalización de los cambios en la gestión del SEN, los resultados
                alcanzados por el proyecto se mantendrán en el largo plazo, aún si las
                intervenciones de inversión ya no se ejecutan en los próximos años, por lo
                tanto el ME está de acuerdo con esta calificación.

Impacto del desarrollo institucional: H/Satisfactorio. La calificación que dio el ME a este
                aspecto fue HS/Altamente Satisfactorio. Por los aspectos mencionados
                tanto en el informe del ME como en el del Banco Mundial se esperaría que
                la calificación sea HS (Altamente Satisfactorio), sin embargo, la
                calificación es H (Satisfactorio), con la que el ME no está de acuerdo. La
                institucionalización y continuidad de la ejecución del Programa de Reforma
                Educativa en el SEN, durante cuatro gestiones de gobierno, es la primera
                experiencia de una política de Estado en el sector social. Asimismo, con la
                contribución de este proyecto se han logrado sobrepasar los objetivos y
                metas de transformación y fortalecimiento institucional del SEN.

Cumplimiento del Banco: S/Satisfactorio. El ME coincide con esta calificación. El apoyo
                efectivo del Banco Mundial en la formulación, ejecución y supervisión del
                proyecto contribuyeron con la asignación y uso eficiente de recursos.

Desempeño del Prestatario: S/Satisfactorio. El ME está de acuerdo con esta calificación. El
                prestatario desarrolló los componentes y en algunos casos sobrepasó las
                metas establecidas en el componente de transformación y fortalecimiento del
                sistema, sin embargo, existieron retrasos en el logro de las metas
                establecidas en el componente de mejora de la calidad pedagógica debido a
                diversos factores.

Calidad al ingreso:      S/Satisfactorio. El ME está de acuerdo con esta calificación. Los
                objetivos y componentes del proyecto respondieron a los planes de



                                          - 26 -

                   desarrollo de Bolivia y al CAS. Asimismo, se generaron condiciones muy
                   favorables para el inicio de su implementación. Sin embargo, tal como señala
                   el informe del Banco Mundial i) no se realizó una programación real que
                   contemple adecuadamente la complejidad y la poca capacidad institucional
                   de los sectores público y privado para ejecutar este proyecto; ii) no se
                   consideró adecuadamente las difíciles relaciones con los diversos actores,
                   especialmente con el sindicato de maestros y; iii) no se estableció un sistema
                   de seguimiento y evaluación que establezca un marco lógico de indicadores,
                   que permita determinar el impacto y los resultados alcanzados
                   exclusivamente por este proyecto.

B. Comentarios a la evaluación del objetivo y diseño del desarrollo y de la calidad al
comienzo

0bjetivo Original:

El Programa de Reforma Educativa (PRE) no representó un esfuerzo dirigido a la reforma del
conjunto de los aspectos del Sistema Educativo Boliviano. El PRE se constituye en el mayor
esfuerzo de transformación y modernización de la gestión del SEN, tanto en el área pedagógica
curricular, como en el área institucional administrativa, dando prioridad en estos primeros años
a la transformación curricular de la educación primaria.

C. Factores más importantes que afectan la implementación y el Resultado

En términos generales el ME está de acuerdo con lo señalado en el informe de cierre
elaborado por el Banco Mundial.

D. Lecciones Aprendidas

La afirmación de que: "La transformación del plan de estudios fue particularmente asediada
con problemas de adquisiciones que, entre otros problemas, retrasó la recepción de adecuados
materiales para la enseñanza de la mayoría de los niños en Bolivia hasta casi diez años de la
aprobación del proyecto.", no es totalmente cierta, el retraso en este tema también se explica
por la falta de recursos humanos especializados en currículo y la poca capacidad de las
imprentas y empresas editoriales para producir la gran cantidad de material que requería el
Programa de Reforma Educativa.

Además de las lecciones aprendidas mencionadas en el informe elaborado por el Banco
Mundial, es necesario incluir las siguientes lecciones aprendidas mencionadas en el informe
elaborado por el ME en agosto del año pasado.

§ DebidoalimitacionesenlacapacidadinstitucionaldelSistemaEducativoNacional(SEN),
en una primera instancia se determinó transformar solamente el nivel primario. Esta
focalización ciertamente permitió concentrar todos los recursos institucionales y, de esta
manera, cumplir satisfactoriamente con el desafío de este primer objetivo. Ha sido precisamente



                                             - 27 -

la focalización en un sólo nivel educativo con sus logros de cobertura y currículo nacional, la
que ha hecho evidente la necesidad de expansión al conjunto del sistema. No únicamente
porque la transformación de primaria causa un efecto de imitación en el conjunto del sistema,
sino porque exige su propia sostenibilidad y continuidad. Sin embargo, una lógica de
transformación por etapas es incapaz, por sí misma, de solucionar esa enorme demanda
agregada generada por las expectativas abiertas al conjunto del SEN Y, complementariamente,
no puede desarrollar y articular coherentemente las potencialidades abiertas en todas las áreas y
niveles de la educación. Una primera lección aprendida, por consiguiente, es que la
transformación de un nivel educativo exige inmediatamente la transformación del conjunto.
Adicionalmente, un proyecto de transformación por etapas genera un problema colateral
irresoluble si se continuase con esa lógica: impide la transitabilidad y comparabilidad de calidad
entre todas las áreas, niveles y modalidades del Sistema Educativo Nacional. Por consiguiente,
es imprescindible sustituir un plan de reforma parcial y por etapas por una estrategia integral y
conjunta.
§ Otra lección que debe extraerse de los logros de este objetivo está referida a la equidad.
Las estadísticas educativas muestran una disminución significativa de la brecha de género y una
disminución más modesta de la distancia entre las áreas urbana y rural y entre la población no
indígena e indígena. Precisamente esto causa una expectativa y una demanda en el conjunto de
la sociedad dada la ampliación en las posibilidades de ejercicio de derechos humanos. Por
consiguiente, ya no puede intervenirse únicamente con criterios cuantitativos de crecimiento
vegetativo para la asignación de recursos o medirse con indicadores simples los efectos de la
disminución de la brecha de género. La valoración del mejoramiento de la equidad tiene que
partir del desarrollo de indicadores complejos para asignar recursos y medir sus efectos. El
Ministerio tendrá que diseñar una política referida a estos dos aspectos para la realización de
un conjunto de intervenciones específicas -según el tipo de municipio- que se establecerán de
acuerdo al índice de desarrollo educativo y al índice de desarrollo humano, es decir, de acuerdo
a índices que miden procesos y no sólo impactos.
§ El enfoque subsectorial de transformación de la educación primaria ha permitido en gran
medida unificar y compatibilizar los esfuerzos del gobierno y de las distintas agencias de
cooperación internacional, generando condiciones favorables para lograr los resultados
esperados. Este concepto de planificación ha permitido construir una cultura institucional y,
por consiguiente, recuperar iniciativa política en el Ministerio. Al mismo tiempo, sin embargo,
ha establecido nichos técnicos y feudos administrativos al interior de la institución porque los
ritmos y las agendas de trabajo no tenían coherencia en el conjunto del Ministerio dada la
parcelación de objetivos. Para expandir la cultura institucional lograda a la totalidad del
Ministerio y asegurar la sostenibilidad y profundización de sus resultados en todo el sistema, el
Ministerio de Educación está en proceso de formulación del Programa Operativo Multianual
(2004 ­2008) con un enfoque sectorial, que contempla de manera integral todos los niveles y
áreas educativas, así como las intervenciones en los ámbitos nacional, departamental y
municipal del Sistema Educativo Nacional. Porque cuando se planifica en el sector educativo
no sólo se trata de conservar la centralidad en la ejecución, sino, sobre todo, el liderazgo en el
diseño de políticas y estrategias.
§ Al iniciar la ejecución de la Reforma Educativa, el Ministerio de Educación logró un alto
grado de consenso en el sistema político haciendo del Programa de Reforma Educativa una
política de Estado. Esto permitió conseguir una mayor asignación de recursos por parte del



                                              - 28 -

gobierno y generó condiciones favorables para dar continuidad y sostenibilidad a la ejecución
de los componentes y logro de resultados. Este ciertamente fue un considerable avance al
interior de una tradición coyunturalista en la elaboración de políticas públicas en el país. Este
significativo logro, sin embargo, acarreó su propio desprestigio porque la escasa legitimidad del
sistema político contaminó la calidad de servicio y derecho público de la Reforma Educativa.
La lección aprendida no puede sino consistir en que una estrategia educativa debe ser una
política nacional y, como tal, debe contar con respaldo social y no limitarse únicamente como
política de Estado. Porque si es cierto que un Estado que se apropia de una política pública
garantiza la sostenibilidad financiera, sólo una sociedad que hace de esa estrategia un
patrimonio ciudadano, asegura la sostenibilidad política.
§ La resolución de conflictos ha sido, durante mucho tiempo, una tarea pendiente en el
sistema educativo. En este campo también se ha vivido bajo la sombra de una tradición
coyunturalista que ha impedido identificar conflictos estructurales y prevenirlos. Como el
Programa de Reforma Educativa no incorporó un componente transversal de sostenibilidad
política, se tuvo que lamentar la oposición sistemática de la lógica corporativa de administrar
intereses y no se pudo convencer a los docentes de la necesidad de compartir valores y
visiones. Por consiguiente, la estrategia educativa en actual diseño final ha incorporado como
objetivo fundamental la corresponsabilidad en el diseño de la política pública.
§ Se hubiera logrado un mayor apoyo y compromiso de los actores de la sociedad con una
estrategia de comunicación que muestre, cuando menos, los resultados del PRE. Que la
Reforma Educativa no haya dado importancia suficiente a tarea tan importante demuestra que
la concentración en la planificación subsectorial tiene efectos de aislamiento. La estrategia
educativa 2005 - 2015, por tanto, debe incorporar un componente comunicacional no sólo por
su importancia en la socialización de la estrategia misma, sino por su necesidad como
instrumento de diálogo permanente para enriquecer o corregir el proceso y sistematizar la
demanda social.
§ El aporte de la cooperación internacional ha sido fundamental para el desarrollo del PRE.
Ha posicionado a la educación como política de Estado y, por consiguiente, ha contribuido a
generar en el Estado una concepción de educación que ha ido mucho más allá de proveer un
servicio. Hoy, educación para el Estado significa institucionalizar las mejores condiciones para
el ejercicio de un derecho asegurando los recursos suficientes de gasto corriente y de inversión
para garantizar la sostenibilidad y socialización de ese derecho. El aporte no previsto de la
cooperación, por consiguiente, logró que una concepción de servicio eficiente se convierta en
una comprensión de derecho fundamental. Al mismo tiempo, sin embargo, la existencia de
diferentes fuentes de financiamiento, cada una con normas y procedimientos propios, generó
una significativa pérdida de liderazgo estatal en la administración de los recursos y en el diseño
de la política pública y demandó un esfuerzo administrativo de parte del Ministerio que no
contribuyó a su fortalecimiento institucional. Esta última lección, por tanto, no puede sino
recoger esa transformación de la educación de servicio a derecho haciendo de este resultado un
patrimonio nacional.




                                             - 29 -

- 30 -

