Page  1
April 10, 2001
His Excellency
Jose Luis Lupo
Minister of Finance
Palacio de Comunicaciones, Piso 19
Av. Mariscal Santa Cruz, esq. Calle Oruro s/n
Casilla Postal 9917
La Paz, Bolivia
Re: 
Credit No. 2650-BO - Education Reform Project
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated November 22, 1994, 
between the International Development Association (the Association) and the Republic 
of Bolivia (the Borrower), as amended. In this letter, all the terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement have the same meaning as therein set forth.
Pursuant to your request and our recent discussions on the subject, the 
Association hereby agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement so as to establish 
thresholds for statements of expenditures consistent with the procurement procedures 
introduced by the Amendment Letter dated February 9, 2001. 
Consequently, paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
modified to read as follows:
"5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for 
goods, works and consultant’s services in respect of which the procedures for Prior 
Review and Prior Review for Consultants referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
will not be required in accordance with the provisions of the table in Section V of 
such Schedule, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating this letter 
in the space provided below and returning the same to the undersigned. This amendment 
letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us. The 
provisions of this amendment letter will become effective, as of the date of this 
letter, once the Association has received one executed original of this amendment 
letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John Newmann
Equity Pillar Leader
Country Managing Unit
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
Page  2
By /s/ José Luis Lupo Flores
Minister of Finance
