Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2650 B0
Development Credit Agreement
(Education Reform Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 22, 1994
CREDIT NUMBER 2650 B0
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 22, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated July 11, 1994 from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
a reform of its education sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from 
the Association in the financing of the Project;
(C)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Government of the Netherlands 
(the Netherlands) a grant (the Dutch Grant) in an amount of fifteen million Dutch 
guilders (f.15,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions 
set forth in an agreement (the Dutch Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and the Netherlands;
(D)
the Netherlands and the Association intend to enter into an agreement 
(the Dutch Administration Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to 
process applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided 
severally by the Netherlands and the Association and regulating certain other matters 
of common interest in connection with such financing;
Page  2
(E)
the Borrower has received from the Government of the Kingdom of Sweden 
(Sweden) a grant in an amount of six million four hundred thousand Swedish kroner (SKr 
6,400,000) and a second grant (the Second Swedish Grant) in an amount of twenty five 
million Swedish kroner (SKr 2,000,000) to assist in financing preparation activities 
related to the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement entered 
into between the Borrower and Sweden on July 28, 1994 (the Second Swedish Grant 
Agreement);
(F)
the Borrower intends to further receive from Sweden a third grant (the 
Third Swedish Grant) in an amount of seventy-five million Swedish kroner (SKr 
75,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the Third Swedish Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Sweden;
(G)
Sweden and the Association intend to enter into an agreement (the Third 
Administration Agreement) making arrangements for the Association to process 
applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided severally 
by Sweden and the Association in accordance with the Third Swedish Grant Agreement and 
regulating certain other matters of common interest in connection with such financing;
(H)
the Borrower intends to receive from Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) 
a grant (the KfW Grant) in an amount of fifteen million German marks (DM 15,000,000) 
to assist in financing Parts B.3 (b) and (c), B.5 (a) and a portion of Part B.3 (a) of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the KfW Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and KfW; and
(I)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Inter-American Development Bank 
(IDB) a loan (the IDB Loan) in an amount equivalent to fifty-five million dollars 
($55,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions set forth 
in an agreement (the IDB Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and 
IDB;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"CSP" means the Borrower's civil service program established by the 
Borrower's Supreme Decree No. 23336 of November 1992;
(b)
"CSP/SNE Agreement" means the agreement, satisfactory to the Association, 
to be entered into between the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economic Development 
and SNE (as defined below) for purposes of the incorporation of SNE in the CSP;
(c)
"District" means a jurisdictional division of the Borrower's education 
system within a municipality made for purposes of providing educational services to 
Nucleos (as defined below);
(d)
"Education Reform Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 1565 published in the 
Official Gazette on July 7, 1994;
(e)
"Education Regulations" means the regulations to the Education Reform 
Law, satisfactory to the Association, to be enacted pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which commences on January 
Page  3
1, each year;
(g)
"Local School Board" means an organization composed of the 
representatives of School Boards (as defined below) within a Nucleo (as defined 
below);
(h)
"Monitoring and Support Unit" means the unit for the monitoring and 
financial administration of the Project established pursuant to the Borrower's 
Ministerial Resolution No. 007/94 of February 3, 1994 and referred to in Section 3.01 
(c) (i) (A) of this Agreement;
(i)
"NGO" means a non-governmental organization established and operating 
within the Borrower's territory;
(j)
"Nucleo" means the education board referred to in article 31 of the 
Education Reform Law;
(k)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Association, 
for the implementation of the Project to be adopted by the Borrower pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(l)
"Pedagogical Advisors" means the pedagogical advisors (asesores 
pedagogicos) referred to in article 42 of the Education Reform Law with the functions 
and responsibilities described in said article;
(m)
"Personnel Rationalization Plan" means a plan, satis- factory to the 
Association: (i) to optimize the staffing, skill mix, and pay of SNE's (as defined 
below) personnel, including any necessary reassignments or releases of its existing 
personnel; (ii) to develop the criteria and procedures for the selection of SNE's 
personnel under the CSP; and (iii) to incorporate SNE's technical and professional 
personnel in the CSP in accordance with the provisions of the CSP/SNE Agreement;
(n)
"Primary Education" means the primary level of formal education referred 
to in article 11 of the Education Reform Law;
(o)
"Primary Education School" means a school for Primary Education owned and 
operated by the Borrower or a school for Primary Education owned and/or operated by a 
religious organization or NGO and supported by the Borrower in the payment of its 
teachers' salaries;
(p)
"Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated: (i) 
August 10, 1990 and August 13, 1990; and (ii) February 26, 1992 and March 16, 1992, 
between the Borrower and the Association;
(q)
"Public Communications Unit" means the unit to be maintained pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) (i) (B) of this Agreement;
(r)
"Public School" means collectively a Primary Education School and a 
Secondary Education School;
(s)
"School Board" means the organization described in article 6 of the 
Education Reform Law, with the functions and responsibilities in article 5 of said 
Law;
(t)
"Secondary Education" means the secondary level of formal education 
referred to in article 12 of the Education Reform Law;
(u)
"Secondary Education School" means a school for Secondary Education owned 
and operated by the Borrower or a school for Secondary Education owned and/or operated 
by a religious organization or NGO and supported financially by the Borrower in the 
payment of its teachers' salaries;
(v)
"SNE" means the Borrower's Secretariat of Education within the Ministry 
of Human Development; and
(w)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  4
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million eight hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 28,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services  required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2004 and ending April 15, 2034. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2014 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent  to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
Page  5
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an  annual rate agreed with the Association 
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Human Development or the person he or she may 
designate in writing is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SNE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with: (i) the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) Project monitoring indicators set 
forth in the Annex to a letter agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower 
and the Association.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall: (i) maintain, with an organizational structure satisfactory to the 
Association: (A) a monitoring and support unit composed of a subunit each for 
monitoring and financial administration; and (B) a public communications unit; (ii) 
maintain within SNE, with an organizational structure satisfactory to the Association, 
a unit each for technical services, information systems, and resource administration; 
(iii) appoint personnel for the units referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of 
this paragraph, who shall have qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Association; and (iv) consult with the Association with respect to any changes to the 
organizational structures referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of this paragraph, 
and the replacement of personnel thereof prior to any such change or replacement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under the General Conditions 
and under Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(a)
allocate in its annual budgets for Fiscal Years 1994 through 1998, and 
each Fiscal Year thereafter during the Project implementation period, the following 
minimum amounts, as counterpart funds for the financing of the Project:
(i)
$4,200,000 equivalent for Fiscal Year 1994;
 
(ii)
$8,500,000 equivalent for Fiscal Year 1995;
 
(iii)
$6,000,000 equivalent for Fiscal Year 1996;
 
(iv)
$5,200,000 equivalent for Fiscal Year 1997; and
 
(v)
$4,100,000 equivalent for Fiscal year 1998 andeach Fiscal Year 
thereafter; and
Page  6
(b)
advance, from the amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and no later than the first day of each month, amounts sufficient to cover the 
counterpart funding requirements for the Project during such month.
Section 3.04. The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Project shall be carried out and monitored in accordance with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.05. Without limitation to its obligations under Article IX of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than February 28, May 31, August 31 and November 30 each Fiscal 
Year, furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association a report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, containing, inter alia:
(i)
the Project activities carried out during the preceding three 
months according to the requirements of the implementation plans 
referred to in paragraph (b) hereof as approved by the 
Association; and
(ii)
the expenditures made in respect of such activities and the source 
of financing thereof;
(b)
not later than August 31 each Fiscal Year, furnish or cause to be 
furnished, in addition to the report referred to in paragraph (a) hereof, to the 
Association for its approval, the implementation plans for all parts of the Project 
proposed to be carried out during the  following year including, as a part thereof, 
the corresponding budgets and any proposed modifications to the related Project 
monitoring indicators, and specifying the extent of compliance with the implementation 
plans submitted the prior year, and implemented during that year;
(c)
not later than September 30 each year, review with the Association its 
progress in the implementation of the Program and the Project;
(d)
not later than September 30 in Fiscal Year 1997, review with the 
Association, in addition to the matters referred to in paragraph (c) hereof: (i) the 
effectiveness and efficiency of the process of reorganization and decentralization of 
SNE's functions; and (ii) the progress made by Primary Education Schools in applying 
in their classrooms the new pedagogical processes supported by the Borrower's 
education reform; and
(e)
if the results of any of the reviews referred to in paragraphs (c) and 
(d) hereof are not satisfactory to the Association: (i) not later than sixty days 
after the respective review, furnish to the Association an action plan, satisfactory 
to the Association, with the actions necessary to achieve adequate progress in the 
carrying out of the Program and the Project; and (ii) take promptly all actions 
included in such action plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
Page  7
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Education Reform Law or the Education Regulations or the Operational 
Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect, in the opinion of the Association, materially and adversely the ability of SNE 
to carry out the Project.
(b)
The IDB Loan Agreement shall have failed to become effective by December 
31, 1995, or such later date as the Association may agree; provided, however, that the 
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to 
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated 
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(A)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; and
(B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
Page  8
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(c)
any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Dutch Grant 
Agreement, the Third Swedish Grant Agreement and the KfW Grant Agreement have been 
fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
(b)
the Borrower shall have adopted the Operational Manual;
 
(c)
the Borrower shall have enacted the Education Regulations; and 
 
(d)
the Borrower shall have adopted the Personnel Rationalization Plan and 
shall have commenced its implementation by signing the CSP/SNE Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the Operational Manual and the Personnel Rationalization Plan have 
been duly adopted by the Borrower; and
(b)
that the Education Regulations have been duly enacted by the Borrower.
 
Section 6.03. The date February 21, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.05 and Article IV 
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which this Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be 
the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development and the Secretary 
of Finance of the Borrower are severally designated as representatives of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Economic Development
   and/or Secretary of Finance
Ministerio de Hacienda y Desarrollo Economico
Secretaria Nacional de Hacienda
Cajon Postal-Ministerio de Finanzas
Calle Bolivar Esq. Indaburo No. 688
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANZA
2617 (FINANZA BV)
La Paz, Bolivia
Page  9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Andres Petricevic
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Credit Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                     SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Goods, books                  10,700,000        79% of foreign
    and materials                                   expenditures and
    other than for                                  of local expen-
    Part B.3 (b)                                    ditures (ex-
    and (c) of the                                  factory cost) and
    Project (including                              60% of local
    storage and                                     expenditures for
    distribution)                                   other items
                                                    procured locally
                                                    until the proceeds
                                                    of the Dutch Grant
                                                    are available for
                                                    disbursement, and
                                                    thereafter 70% of
                                                    foreign expendi-
                                                    tures and local
                                                    expenditures (ex-
Page  10
                                                    factory cost) and
                                                    60% of local
                                                    expenditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(2) Works for                       940,000         79% until the
    Part A.3 of                                     proceeds of the
    the Project                                     Dutch Grant are
                                                    available for
                                                    disbursement and
                                                    70% thereafter
(3) Consultants'                   3,960,000        79% until the
    Services                                        proceeds of the
                                                    Dutch Grant are
                                                    available for
                                                    disbursement and
                                                    70% thereafter
(4) Training (other than           6,080,000        79% until the
    for Part B.5 (a) of                             proceeds of the
    the Project)                                    Dutch Grant are
                                                    available for
                                                    disbursement and
                                                    70% thereafter
(5) SNE Salaries                     450,000        79% until with-
                                                    drawals under
                                                    this Category
                                                    have reached an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    SDR 300,000;
                                                    thereafter, 40%
                                                    until withdrawals
                                                    have reached an
                                                    aggregate amount
                                                    equivalent to
                                                    SDR 100,000; and
                                                    20% thereafter
(6) Monitoring                     1,850,000        79% until the
    and Support                                     proceeds of the
    Unit and Public                                 Dutch Grant are
    Communications                                  available for
    Unit Operating                                  disbursement and
    Costs                                           and 70% there-
                                                    after
(7) Public Communi-                2,070,000        79% until the
    cations Campaign                                proceeds of the
                                                    Dutch Grant are
                                                    available for
                                                    disbursement and
                                                    70% therafter
(8) Refunding of                     684,000        Amounts due
    Project                                         pursuant to
    Preparation                                     Section 2.02 (c)
    Advances                                        of this Agreement
(9) Unallocated                    2,066,000
        TOTAL                     28,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
Page  11
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
"SNE Salaries" means the salaries of SNE's personnel listed in the annex 
to a letter agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association;
(d)
"Monitoring and Support Unit and Public Communication Unit Operating 
Costs" means the cost of salaries of staff (other than consultants) employed by the 
Monitoring and Support Unit, office supplies for such Unit and fuel for the operation 
of vehicles assigned to the monitoring subunit of the Monitoring and Support Unit and 
salaries and office supplies for the Public Communications Unit; and
(e)
"Public Communications Campaign" means the cost of: (i) the design, 
production and dissemination of public messages of the campaign included in Part A.9 
of the Project (including radio and television time and publications); and (ii) 
conducting public meetings for the building of consensus referred to in Part A.9 of 
the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 2,880,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories (1) through (7) on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after January 1, 1994;
(b)
expenditures for equipment, textbooks and didactic materials under Part 
B.3 (a) of the Project which KfW shall have financed or agreed to finance under the 
KfW Grant Agreement; and
(c)
expenditures for Parts A.3, A.7, A.9, B.3 (c) and B.8 until the proceeds 
of the Second Swedish Grant allocated for the financing of similar expenditures have 
been disbursed or committed.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the Borrower and the 
Association hereby agree that at the time the IDB Loan Agreement becomes effective, 
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, reallocate the Credit proceeds and 
modify the disbursement percentages thereof as  shall be required to restrict the 
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit to those expenditures that will not be 
otherwise financed by the IDB Loan.
5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for goods and 
works in respect of which the procedures for prior review set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement will 
not be required in accordance with the provisions of Section I, Part D, paragraph 1 
(a) of such Schedule, and for consultants services in respect of which prior review 
will not be required pursuant to the provisions of Section II, paragraph 2 of Schedule 
3 to this Agreement, all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the quality and equity of 
Primary Education; (b) to strengthen the capacity of the Borrower's education system 
to deliver education services effectively and efficiently; and (c) to strengthen SNE's 
ability to set policies and guidelines for the Borrower's education sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Reform
 
1.
Registration of the personnel of SNE and other public agencies responsible for 
education, and of Public Schools, and analysis of the data obtained therefrom.
2.
Definition of the specific Public Schools that will be included in each Nucleo 
Page  12
and of which Nucleos will be included in each District.
3.
Repair and/or reconditioning and equipping of SNE's offices at the central, 
departmental, municipal and District levels.
4.
Carrying out of the Personnel Rationalization Plan, including the development of 
guidelines for the selection of the technical and professional staff of SNE to be 
incorporated in the CSP.
5.
Training and technical assistance to SNE's technical, professional and 
administrative personnel in offices at the central, departmental, municipal and 
District levels in the purposes, strategies and procedures of the Program, the Project 
and the Operational Manual.
6.
Dissemination of information to the public on the rights and obligations of 
School Boards and Local School Boards under the Education Reform Law and training of 
the members of selected School Boards and Local School Boards in the skills required 
to exercise such rights and discharge such obligations and, in particular, in the 
review of education budgets and the monitoring of the expenses thereof.
7.
Establishment and operation of an integrated information system required by SNE 
in the operation, management, planning and evaluation of the Borrower's education 
system including the installation of the computers and related equipment required 
therefor.
8.
Design and implementation, including the training of SNE's staff as shall be 
required therefor, of systems for the administration of the financial, physical and 
human resources of the Borrower's education sector, excluding universities.
9.
Carrying out of a communications campaign for dissemination of information on 
the Program, and building of consensus at the national, regional and community level 
for such Program.
10.
Design of activities of education reform subsequent to those included in the 
Project, and identification of investment projects related thereto.
Part B:
Pedagogical Reform
 
1.
(a)
Development of a curriculum for each age and level of Primary Education 
based on multigrade teaching techniques and, where necessary, bilingual teaching 
techniques to support the teaching of Spanish as a second language; and (b) 
application of such curriculum on a pilot basis in about 50 Nucleos.
2.
Development, design, printing and distribution of textbooks for Primary 
Education Schools, and instructional materials and teachers' guides and other 
pedagogical aids related to the curriculum to be developed under Part B.1 (a) of the 
Project.
3.
(a)
Purchase and distribution of equipment and teaching materials for Primary 
Education Schools and rural Secondary Education Schools including, inter alia, school 
library packages, maps, posters and instructional games; (b) development, production 
and distribution of teaching guides and other learning aids; and (c) production and 
distribution of newsletters for teachers providing them with information on training 
opportunities and activities, and general pedagogical information.
4.
Printing, binding and distribution of materials and teaching guides for 
bilingual and multigrade education in Primary Education Schools to be used where 
necessary during the period prior to the introduction of the curriculum to be 
developed under Part B.1 (a) of the Project.
5.
(a)
Training and provision of instructional materials to Pedagogical Advisors 
as shall be required to train principals and teachers of Primary Education Schools; 
and (b) development of new training programs for Pedagogical Advisors based on the 
results arising from the training referred
to in Part 5 (a) hereof.
6.
Training through workshops conducted by Pedagogical Advisors of teachers in 
selected educational fields, and of principals in selected educational fields and 
school administration.
7.
Production and distribution of self-instructional materials for PrimaryEducation 
teachers to strengthen their basic knowledge and pedagogic skills.
Page  13
8.
Development of a program for the reform and strengthening of the institutions 
providing pre-service training of Primary Education teachers and of the curricula to 
be used by such institutions, and implementation of the reform and strengthening 
measures needed under such program.
9.
Studies of selected subjects necessary for the development of the curriculum 
referred to in Part B.1 (a) of the Project, including the identification of the 
learning objectives and needs of the various ethnic groups, and the review of other 
relevant ethnographic data, gender-related aspects of Primary Education, the effects 
of migration in Primary Education, and problems related to quality, efficiency and 
equity of Secondary Education.
10.
Development and implementation of a nation-wide testing program to assess the 
academic achievement of Primary Education students on a periodic basis.
*      *      *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part C hereof, design and printing of textbooks, teachers' 
guides and other materials and aids under Part B.2 of the Project, equipment, 
materials and books under Part B.3 (a) of the Project, printing and binding of 
materials for bilingual and multigrade education under Part B.4 of the Project, school 
and office equipment and furniture (other than computers and related equipment) and 
the communications campaign under Part A.9 of the Project shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 
2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the 
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for 
each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the 
Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to the 
local currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods, works and services in accordance with this 
Part A and Part C.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard 
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the 
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where 
no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower 
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms 
agreed with the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for design and binding of materials under 
Part B.2 of the Project, for equipment, materials and books under Part B.3 (a) of the 
Project, for the printing and binding of materials under Part B.4 of the Project, and 
for other goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$150,000 or more. 
3.
Bidders for the purchase of materials and books under Part B.3 (a) of the 
Project, for the printing and binding of materials and for the communications campaign 
shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Bolivia may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
Page  14
1.
Computers and related equipment shall be procured under contracts awarded 
through limited international bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of bids obtained from qualified suppliers eligible under the Guidelines and 
in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines 
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.
Works, storage and distribution of textbooks and materials, and furniture and 
office equipment (except computers and related equipment) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $150,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$1,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive 
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
3.
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $500,000, and works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$150,000 or less per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible under 
the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts A.1 and C.1 hereof; and (ii) the first contract for goods and works procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 hereof the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract 
are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure 
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association  
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ 
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants' 
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $40,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
Page  15
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association; (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $40,000 equivalent or above; (e) amendments to contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $10,000 equivalent or above; 
and (f) technical or professional consultants to be employed for more than two months.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Actions to be taken                                  Date (by)
1.  Complete the analysis of
    the data obtained from the
    registration of personnel
    referred to in Part A.1 of
    the Project.                                     December 31, 1994
2.  Define a baseline figure
    for the number of teaching
    administrative, and support
    personnel necessary in each
    Primary Education School,
    at the District level,
    and in each Nucleo.                              March 31, 1995
3.  Identify the names and
    locations of all Public
    Schools comprising all
    Nucleos.                                         June 30, 1998
4.  Take all necessary action
    to ensure that School
    Boards are organized and
    in operation in respect of
    all Public Schools.                              December 31, 1998
5.  (a)   Define all Districts; and                  March 30, 1996
    (b)   define all Nucleos
          located in the
          Districts referred to
          in (a) above.                              March 30, 1998
6.  (a)   Complete the design of the
          administration systems
          included in Part A.8 of the
          Project.                                   December 31, 1995
    (b)   Complete the training of SNE's
          staff in the utilization of
          the systems referred to in
          paragraph 6 above.                         June 30, 1996
7.  Complete the design of the
    curriculum included in Part B.1 (a)
    of the Project, including the
    learning materials and teacher's
    guides, related thereto as
    follows:
    (a)   Modules and guides                         November 30, 1995
          for the first year
          (grade) level.
    (b)   Modules and guides                         March 31, 1996
          for second year
          (grade) level.
    (c)   Modules and guides                         December 31, 1996
          for third year
          (grade) level.
Page  16
    (d)   Modules and guides                         October 30, 1997
          for fourth (grade)
          level.
    (e)   Modules and guides                         July 31, 1998
          for fifth (grade)
          level.
    (f)   Modules and guides                         May 31, 1999
          for sixth (grade)
          level.
    (g)   Modules and guides                         February 28, 2000
          for seventh (grade)
          level.
    (h)   Modules and guides                         November 30, 2000
          for eighth (grade)
          level.
8.  Complete the training of Pedagogical
    Advisors in principles and
    methods of teacher training
    and pedagogical counseling,
    teaching and learning techniques
    and application of new curriculum
    and materials as follows:
    (a)   Carry out a 6-month course
          for Pedagogical Advisors
          assigned to a first
          group of 300 Nucleos.                      October 31, 1994
    (b)   Carry out a 6-month course
          for Pedagogical Advisors
          assigned to a second
          group of 500 Nucleos.                      October 31, 1995
    (c)   Carry out a 6-month course
          for Pedagogical Advisors
          assigned to a third
          group of 500 Nucleos.                      October 31, 1996
    (d)   Carry out a 6-month course
          for Pedagogical Advisors
          assigned to a fourth group
          of 500 Nucleos.                            October 31, 1997
    (e)   Carry out a one-week train-
          ing course in the application
          of the modules for second                  November 30, 1995
          and successive years of                    and each
          Primary Education.                         year thereafter
9.  Complete the design of operational
    plans, terms of reference, and
    institutional arrangements, satis-
    factory to the Association, for
    the unit in SNE which will be
    assigned responsibility for the
    development and implementation of
    the education assessment program
    under Part B.10 of the Project.                  July 31, 1995
10. Complete the design of a plan,
    satisfactory to the Association,
    for pre-service teacher train-
    ing under Part B.8 of the Project,
    based on the association of each
    of the Borrower's teacher-training
    schools with a public or private
Page  17
    university and/or the conversion
    of any such teacher training
    schools into in-service teacher
    training centers.                                June 30, 1995
11. Prepare a program, satisfactory to
    the Association, for the training
    of school principals and Nucleo
    directors under Part B.6
    of the Project.                                  June 30, 1995
12. Define an in-service teacher
    training program, satisfactory
    to the Association, with the                     December 31, 1994
    guidance of Pedagogical Advisors.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  18
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that  the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such  outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
