Page  1
November 8, 1995
His Excellency 
Fernando Candia 
Minister of Finance 
and/or 
Mr. Gonzalo Afcha 
Secretary of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Calle Bolivar esq. Indaburo, No. 688 
La Paz, Bolivia
Dear Sirs:
RE: Bolivia: Credit JVo. 26.50-BO (Education Reform Project)
Second Amendment
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of 
Bolivia (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the 
Association) on the above-mentioned Project, dated November 22, 1994, amended on 
April 17, 1995.
We are pleased to inform you that pursuant to your request in letter dated 
September 15, 1995, the Association hereby agrees to amend the Preamble of the 
Development Credit Agreement as follows:
(a)
by deleting the word "and7 at the end of Recital (H);
(b)
replacing the period at the end of Recital J) with a semicolon; and
(c)
adding a new Recital (J) to read as follows:
"(J)
the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent 
practicable,
that the proceeds of the Credit provided for under this Agreement be
disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the Project after
disbursements of the proceeds of Third Swedish Grant are made, pursuant
to the provisions of the Third Swedish Grant Agreement and the Third
Administration Agreement, as applicable."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the form 
of confirmation below and returning the same to the undersigned. The provisions of 
this amendment will become effective upon receipt of such signed form.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Director
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
CONFIRMED
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ Fernando Candia Castillo
Authorized Representative
Date:
November 30, 1995
Page  2
Cleared with and cc: W. Varela (LEGLA); Mr. Formoso (LOAEL)
CC:
Messrs/Mmes.
Crown (LA3DR); Morrow, Iwase, Fretes-Cibils, Bateman
(LA3Cl); Schweitzer, Corbett (LA313R); Collell, Varela (LEGLA);
Brinckhaus (LOAEL); Girardot-Berg (Bolivia Resident Representative); 
Alvarez (LA3HR-BO)
LACIC
LA3HR Files
