DocuLiut of
The World Banl
FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 6035 ME    Type: (PM)
Title:  HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND TRA
Author: PINILLA. L.                                   No   P6035
Ext. :38767 Room:I 8100 Dept. :LA2IE
MEKO)RANM MAND RECOMDANTION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$480 IMLLION
TO
BANCO NAcIoNAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (BANORAS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MECAN STATES
FOR A
HIGAY RFERAILITATION ANRD TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
NAY 18, 1993
This documeat has a resicted distributon snd may be used by recpiets only in the pertormance of
their official duties. Its contet may not othenwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



CUREC EQOflVALN
Curncy Unit = Mexican Pesos (Mex$)
US$1.00 = Mex$3,095 (February 23, 1993)
.SCAL YR
January I to December 31
MNITS OF WEIGHlTS AND MEASURES
Metic                            Britishm=S Eyivaln
1 kilometer (cm)    =            0.62 mfle (mi)
1 meter (m)         =            3.28 feet (ft)
1 gram (g)                       0.0022 pound (b)
I kilogramkg)       =            2.20 pounds (b)
1 ton               =            2,205 pounds
1 liter (t)         =            33.28 fluid once (fl. oz)
ABBREVATIS
BANOBRAS        National Bank of Public Works and Services (Banco Naciona de Obras y
Servicios Pdblicos)
DGP             General Corodination for Planning of SCe  (Coordinaci6n General O
Plaeaci6n)
DGCCOP           General Directorate for Maitenance of Public Works of SCr
(Direcci6n General de Construcci6n y Conservaci6n de Obras Piblicas)
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
LCB             Local Competve Bidding
SHCP             Secaetriat for Finance and Public Credit (Secretarfa de Hacienda y
Cr6dito Piblico)
SIT             Secrtaiat for Communications and Transport (Secretarfa de
Conunicaciones y Transportes)



MEXICO                        FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
I5jIWAY REABILTATION AND 21WI0    MME7Y PROJECT
LwmOAND ELm-X
Bomrwe:                  Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pdblicos, S.N.C.
(BANOBRAS)
Gziuaantor:              United Mexican States
Exene                    Seetarfa de Comunicaciones y Transportes
Agendefi and             (SCr), and the users of the federal highway system.
Bem;iaries:
US$480 million equivalent.
Teu:                     Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at
the Bank's standard variable rate.
Daft" io m :             Loan proceeds to be relent to Goverent (for SCI) on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the Governtent
bei  the foreign excange and interest rate nsks.
VFi:                                                  ,LL M      FOREIGN  TOTAL
(in MNmon of U.S. Dofars)
Governm   of Mexico                            922.71     157.17     1079.88
BRD    -                                         -        480.00      480.00
Bilatel programs (Sweden, U.K. and France)       -.         0.12        0.12
Total                                     922.71     637.29      1560.00
of RItmm.,               The ERR of most of the highway rehabilitation works, the mai
project component, will be in excess of 25%, except for a numbr
of subprojects for which the acumulated total investment does not
exceed 10% of te budget for the year in which such subprojects
are being considered; such potion of subprojects would require an
ERR of at leas 12% each.
Staff Apr     eport:   Reprt No. 11720-ME, dated May 18, 1993
k:                       IBRD No. 23709
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of ther official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TH7E EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (BANODRAS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE UNITED MEXICAN STATTES FOR A
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
I.    I submit for your approval the following maemorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan for an
equivalent of US$480 million to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pdblicos, S N.C. (BANOBRAS), with
the garantee of the United Mexican Stawes, to help finance the Government of Mexico's Highway Rehabilitation
and Traffic Saety program. The proposed loan will be repaid over 15 years, including 5 years of grace. Part 1
of the-document contains a discussion of Mexico*s economic policies and the Bank Group's asisn  stregy.
Part 2 describes the proposed loan.
PART 1
COUNTRY POUCIES AND BANK GROUP ASSIY3ANCE STRATEGY
A. HISTORICAL ER E           AND RECENT PERwFAANcE
2.    Mexico, as it ters the mid-1990s, has both (i) considerable strengths to build on, due in part to the
extensive reforms implemented since the mid-1980s, and (ii) some important chaltenges still to resolve,
particularly relating to short term economic prospects.
Historical Perspective
3.    These strengths and challenges have emerged from events that unfolded in tree disnct periods.
4.    Pre-1982. From 1940 to 1980, the country enjoyed four deades of high growth and stability, wh
GDP rising a robust 6.2% per year on average. Gradually, though, the seeds of futue difficulties took root
Steady deterioration in productivity (with total factor productivity growth failing to zero in the 1970s), large
increases in public spending in the 1970s (taking the primary deficit to 8.0% of GDP by 1981), upsurges in
inflation (climbing to 30% by 1981), overvaluation of the exchange rate, a boom in imports (which increased
fourfold between 1975 and 1981), an explosion in public debt (rising from $7 billion in 1972 to $78 billion in
1981), and an ensuing burst of capital flight - all left the country highly vulnerable.
5.    1982-1988. In 1982, foreign creditors, concened about these unsustnable policies in light of rsing
world interest rates and falling prices for oil (then Mdxco's leading export), stopped extnding new credit. By
August, international reserves were exhausted and foreign debt service had to be suspended. A stabiliztion
program and fragile recovey followed, but it soon becme clear that addressing short term stabflization issues
alone would not be enough: the underlying structural pr,blems in the economy would also have to be dealt with.
Two masor shocks - the Meico City earthquake of September 1985 and the oil price collapse of 1936 - added
to the dificulties. A new adjustment program, signalling an important dcange in diection, was iniated in
1986, emphasizing rigorous fisal discipline and liberalization of trade. A further boost came in late 1987 when
the Government, business, and labor reached agreement on the first of what became a series of accords (the
Pactos) that enabled stuctural refrms and fiscal discipline to go forward in an envikonment of cosrind
wtage and price increases. Looling back later, some observers have concluded that Mexico's successful
recovery required all three of (i) stabilization, (ii) adjustment, and (ii) the Pactos, and that any two of these
would not have been enough.



2
\ 
6.    1988-1992. In December 1988, Presideat Carlos Salinas de Gorsri took office and his adminition~~~~~~~~.
diatly sra tJ R therampoesfar  htenx  iryas   eioah darmral
tmnaround.~~~3 GDP                                                36whrbuddt  .%pryt{r1999.Io   l da  aeb  eni
Pigu er~1~cp 1, Ane1.8is1t  0aeotindi  nec7.Ps    icpln  ovre    ag  eii
closre prgrdcdTiw. o ubicetep (i s~ *o 1,115i  198 to                     2216i 92 ierd
liberdzatio tr                            nlD Mexi1       17om      a      7 hl lsdeot n fhems£ ntewrdwt
moret Go  ifeNothA medFro hd    4 r 4                 ;T)i rtfe.Pbi s4               etsrn
fh  6.4  o GP n 98 o 8.%  n 99,whdhs es tanhlf1i orrspndn fguz orth4US
an  Jpn.hnmICORlreere tripled buveen8 1988 an  199  (P. ur 3.    Sepo  a  eoc
deregultin redcton of .biie,adfmnils..         eomso e            adc  bnK .      herl  o
e Public antd Drtrate sector and a strenx comn u nrive .  led rn.h



3
Recent Performance
7.    The strengths that Mexico now has as a resut of these impressive accomplis=ments are substantial: a
stabilized, liberalized, and privatized economy, with a fiscal swplus, ample inrational reserves, good access
to inteional capital markets, diminished public debt, and low irjation. The principal objective of the
Govemment's macro program has been to reduce inion, so as to create a solid foundation for long-term
growth, and in this the administrationhas been outsanding successful. Inflation fell from 159% in 1987 to just
12% in 1992, with less than 10% likely for 1993.
8.    The challenges that remain are related to the fact that the economy has not yet responded vigorously
to the reform measures. GDP growth, only 2.6% in 1992, is still weak. So is productivity growth: total factor
productivity has been increasing at under 0.5% yearly, less than a fourth of what Chile and Indonesia have
recently had. The current account deficit is large, at $22.8 billion, or 7.1% of GDP, in 1992 (Figure 4),
largely as a consequence of declining private savings (Figures 5 and 8). Imports have grown strongly (22%
in 1991 and 26% in 1992) while exports have risen more slowly (2.6% in 1991 and 3.5% in 1992). Inerest
rates are high: nominal short term Government borrowing rates were 17 to 18% In March 1993, up from 11%
a year earlier; and real rates were close to 8%. Total investment has not grown as a share of GDP since 1989
(Figure 5).
9.    The combined presence of these trends has been noted by internaional investors. If GDP and
productivity were growing strongly as a consequence of higher investment, then a large current account deficit
would be understdable: a developing econor3y would be inesting in its fuatre with the help of foreign capital.
However, with weak GDP and productivity results, the high current account deficit has raised some concern
among investors.
10. The large capital inflows that have financed the current account deficit have been sufficient to maintain
a positive balance of payments and permit strong growth in international reserves, which are now over 6% of
GDP ($18.5 bilion at the end of 1992, and higher more recendy). However, these inflows have changed in
chracter recently. From the late 1980s, when they began, until the first half of 1992, they appear to have been
a response largely to the improved climate for investment in Mexdco, reflecting confidence in the reorm
progrm. More recenty, they have been driven more by the large differeni of lexican over intnational
interest rates (Figure 7). This diffenia rose sharply in 1992 when the Governent further tightened monetay
policy as it saw capital inflows stardng to decelerate. Given the potental volaity of capital inflows, especially
when they include considerable short term money attracted by interest rate differntias, developmes affecting
capital movements will need to be watched closely.
11.   Exchange rate policy has since 1988 been one of small daily nominal devaluations, at a pace less than
inflation, thus leading to appreciation in the real exchange rate. In October 1992, the Government moved to
an explicit band system. The ceiling of the band is now raised by 0.04 new centavos per day (about 4.6% in
a year), while the floor is kept fixed. Within the band, the actual spot exchange rate is set by market forces,
and is determined in part by monetary policy through its impact on interest rates. With the widened band, the
real exchange rate conceivably could stay about constant now (unless Mexcan inflation were to be above 10%),
instead of continuing to appreciate.
12.   The decline inprlwe saving (Figure 8) has exeeded an increase in public savings, which have nearly
tripled since 1988. The result has been a decrease in total savings, implying increased dependency on foreign
finance for new investment. Consumption booms (savings declines) are not uncommon in countries coming out
of economic crises and a stringent stabilization program, although Mexico's has been larger than most. 13.
Pflwate debt has been rising bridsy, as Madcan banks and corporations have inceased their borrowings from
abroad in the face of high interest rates at home. Aware of the questions this trend might raise about incased



4
exchange rake exposure, the central bank instituted limits in April 1992 on banks' foreign borrowing.
Meanwhile, public debt has continued its decreasing trend as a share of GDP (Figure 9).
14.   Ihe banking sector, while generally healthy, still needs extensive modernizing. Although none of the
19 commercial banks is reporting difficulties at present, it would not be unusual, given other countries'
experiences, for a few to have problems sometime in the short to medium term. Non-performing assets,
recently at 4.7% of their total portfolio, have been growing rapidly, although from a low base. Part of this
incease is a result of the banks introducing stricter standards in the renewal of credit.
15. The high interest rates have impacted private sector development. While the largest and best-off firms,
with their access to exernal markets, can often borrow at the currendy low international rates, smaller or less
profitable firms have only the local markets (where nominal rates can be 25% to 35% or more for some
borrowers), at a time when they urgently need to invest to meet the stiff foreign competition unleashed by the
removal of trade barriers.
16.   Perhaps the single most puzzling question is why GDP and productivity have not grown more. Iheir
present growvth rates are low by historical standards as well as in comparison with other counries with
successful adjustment programs. Chile and Indonesia, for example, have had better than twice the GDP growth
and four times the total factor productivity growth. Possible explanations that have been advanced for Mexico's
case include: that more time is required for the positive effects of the reform program to take hold; that a
substantia share of the exing capital stock has become economically obsolete, party as a result of the
reforms, and has to be replaced, which requires time; that the refoms have been piecemeal with some key
sectors, in particular agriculture and financial services, left until later, and that therefore productivity in these
sectors has yet to improve, thus weighing down the total; that important areas of reform, such as increasing
flexibility in labor markets, have still to be addressed; that infrastructure growth has been inadequate; that the
exchage rate appreciation has slowed the growth of the tradeable goods sectors; and that the contiued tight
macro policies (while necessary for the continued reduction in inflation) have restrained expansion. The
Government has also explored sectoral coaints (Box 1). Bank economic and sector work and economic
monitoring will focus on identifying and addressing the casues of low GDP and productivity growth.
17.   As the Goverment addresses these challenges, the strengths it now has to draw on will be a powerful
asset. Its strong fiscal position, plentiful reserves, and good externa creditwortiness wil give it space to
manoeuver. Its successes in sharply cutting public debt, slashing inflation, shrdng the size of the public
sector, tearing down trade barriers, and redirecting the role of Goverment to be more supportive of private
sector iniative wil1 mean it is free of many burdens that other countries are still struggling with. Its advances
in implementig extensive sectoral reforms will provide a strong basis for greater efficiency and increases in
productivity. The deepening of the reforms coniues at an impressive rate, even in comparison to the high
standard set in the mid and late-1980's. In the year and a half since mid-1991, the Government has: (1) enacted
fundamentally reforms to the ejido system of land tenure; (2) re-privatized the commercial bankdng system; (3)
legalized private generation of electr; and (4) assigned an increasingly important role to the private sector
in building and operating infrastructure. In short, the Government has put in place the fiiuamentals for
sustinable, private-sector-led development, and thus is strongly positioned to confront the challenges before
it.
B. THE EXERNAL ENVIRONMENT
18.   The main issues for Mexo now regarding extenal factors are: the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA); the economic prospects of its trading partners, especially the U.S.; the terms of trade,
including oil prices; and developments in international capital markets and their impact on private capital inflows
into MeXIco.



5
19.   NAITA.                    Ofl a     of
NAFTA has been a paramount goal of 
the SalinasI adin'istaton In its effots
to  consolidate  and  acceerate  the  ~
economic  moderniion  already  in ,
process. By May 1993, the prospects    .              ~      ~      d h 1j~ t1
for arval by the U.S. Congrs
seemed less assured than earlier.  A                             
successful outcome Is nonetheles still  It1&$    o9S*5tII0   y                            lto
possible, some observers feel, noting that 
all the key parties inolved have more to  g                          '          W t     1 ! 
gain by going ahed tha not, despkdite                                    AMthe-I?9IW-;?
tough rhetoric and posturing to the
contrary that would dominate th closiag                a     _ 
stages of the negodaions.  Eve4 the
critics     especially  labor  and           . 
environm ists -  would hwe an                   ...-
opportunitY to acieve mjor gains, tbey
might not get otewise, since the U.S.   |                                                  & gt._
and Mexicn negotiators' eageess to be
responsive to the these concerns might  
not be the sme i the NAFTAtalks tt d 
broke down.  In addition, NAFrA's
intrinsic strejgfths and te progress                K        *             6
achived to date (Box 1) could not be
20. If NAFTA is not implemented, 
the consequens for Mexico could be | 1
substant.  The immedate reaction  
could inlude sharp adverse effacts on  *                   w_
capita flows, invesmet and savings, 
invetorconfidence  fell  and  the 
crediility of fth Government's policies                P4               ,
was questoned.  The implications of                *'x:$lxx*~:
thee developments, together with the            .        ....
political impact of a major defeat on a
prominentpori, couldpot      ylead to sft inthe views ofhe Govnment and reconsideraion of some
policies. Abandonment of NAPTA would not, by itself, be destabilizing, given the economy's findamentl
strengths due to the  hievments of the reform progrm; but if dropping NAFIA resulted in a weaheing of
commitment, or to policy reversals, problems could arise in the short tem  While the Govemment would have
the means at its disposa to cope with whateve calnges ta might ensue if NAFrA were defeated, there
would be conflicting preeas, especially givn that 1994 is a presidendal election year.
21.   if, on the other band, NAFTA is implemented, ts impacts on Mexico would be far-reahing. Besides
th e ted gains in growth, employment, wages, and trade, NAFrA would give gre  pmanency to the
Sainas reforms, as growing integratio of North American markets backed by legaly binding intenional
~ n -  I dings would make reveras by  ture administratio  dfficult and unlikey.
22.    he effects ontheg m         sector would unfold fastest. Sectors whee Mexico has a co eparat
advantge - such as textiles and appad, glassware, food proas , bverages, and electronics - would



6
expand, as Mexico's lower labor coss come to bear. Sectors and firms that do not restructre and improve
productivity quickly enough would fall behind their northern compettors, or be absorbed in joint venues. lhe
banking, transport, and telecommunication sectors would face stiff new competition fom US and Canadian
firms, which would lead to lower costs and more efficient services for consumers.
23.   Agriculture and related sectors would expeienc both gains and losses. The basic grains would be bhit
hard by competition from more efficient U.S. producers, especially maize, where maize cumrny accounts for
over one-third of the total arable land and is grown by over two mfillion producers. The removal of ptection
on maize (domestic prices are now 70% above international prices) would shawply affect ouput, rural wages,
rural poverty, and migration to cities. Other farm products - principally fruits and vegetables, where Mexico's
climate i3 an advantage - would gain, and become a source of increased growth, exports, and jobs. However,
these benefits would accrue predominantly to the irrgated and tropical wedand parts of the country, rather than
the raifed areas where the maize losses would mainly occur. To mitigate the adverse consequences for those
negatively affected, and to safeguard the impoverished, the Govement Is preparing special programs, with
Bank support, to ease the transition to new sources of income and employment
24.   EconomicProspecfoMeico's TdingPann. DIand for Mexicaproctsabroadhasbeen
dampened in recent years by the slumping economies elsewhere, especially the U.S, which accounts for 75%
of Mexico's exports and 71% of its imports. The next few years are projected to be moderately better. Growth
n the industrial countries is expected torecover to around 2 percent per annum in the short term and then
remain at a modest level in the medium term, due to slow productivity growth and poor savings perfomance
in some major economies.1 Ihe U.S. economy has been picking up steam recently, although the recovery
remains patchy and uncert.
25.   World trade is projected to rise faster than industrial counry growth, in part becase of incased trade
bitween developing counries and in part becase of the impact of regional arrangements. The disappointing
progress of the Uruguay Round of Multilateral Trade Negotiations, and genral rise of protectionism worldwide,
are of concern. However, Mexdco's trade with the U.S. is likely to continue growing rapidly, all the more so
if NAFTA is implemented.
26.   Temus of Thrde. Mexico's terms of trade are projected to be roughly constant in the short term, with
some improvement toward the end of the decade due to higher oil prices. The Government maintains a highly
disciplined aproach to oil, stfll one of the country's largest export revenue earners (though smaller now than
before - see Figure 10). Unexpected oil price declines are guarded against by hedging in ftures markets.
Windfill neases are deposked in a specidal account used only as insurance for the fiture or to reduce debt.
Strictly isolating oil revemnes from the general budget protects against the 'Dutch disease" tendencies that upset
fwscd policy in the years leading up to the 1982 crisis.
27.   Itemnaonal Capita Maes.  Mexico now has access to the major exal capital markets,
particularly in the U.S. and Europe, after having been excluded for most of the 1980s. Both the Goverment
and major private companies are now able to issue bonds in these markets on good terms, with matuities of
up to ten years and spreads as low as 200 basis points over equivalent U.S. Treasury issues. Continmed
improvemnent of terms is likely as long as investor confidence in the economic program holds, and will favorably
affect finnig possibilities for invement, including infastructu  improvemets.
28.   The large capita inflows Mexico is now receiving, like all such private flows elsewhere, could dimii
if investors chose for any reason to put their money elsewhere. The extenal factors that have contributed to
stimulating thX inflows show signs of persisting for now, but conditions could always change, e.g., if there were
1. li metion draws an 'Global Ecnomic Prospect and the Developing Counries 1993', Interntoal Economics
Deprmn, FPebnaty 25, 1993.



7
a delay in the implementation of NAFrA or the economy failed to improve. One such factor, already noted
above, is that Mexican interest rates are significantly above U.S. rates, creating a very large interest differential.
A significant increase in U.S. rates would erode this differential, though even the most extreme projections for
U.S. rates for the next two years would still leave them far below current Mexican rates. In any event, Mexico
would always have the option of using monetary policy to raise their rates too - and have qhown in 1992 that
they are ready to do so if necessary.
C. THz BANK's COUNTRY AsswrANcE SrATEGY
29.   Ihis section is structured as follows. MYe main thusts of (1) Mexico's development objectives and (2)
the Bank's objectives are briefly summarized first. Then subsequent sr ' ,tions, elaborating on both Mexico's
and the Bank's priorities and programs, focus on (3) macroeconomic poixy, (4) poverty reduction, (5) human
resources development, (6) the environment, (7) infrastructure, (8) agriculture, and (9) institutional
strengthening. 'ne areas of spedal emphasis for Mexico are cowered partly in these discussions (e.g., poverty
reduction) and F rtly in a firther subsection (10) concentrating on issues not already highlighted.
30.   Finally, (11) the lending levels and composition of the Bank's program, (12) portfolio management, (13)
IFC and MIGA, and (14) cooperation with other multilateral institutions are discussed.
Mico's Development Objectives
31.   The Government remains strongly committed to the objectives and policies that have guided the reforms
accomplished under President Salimas.  he goal of completing within the decade the find steps that will lift
the country once and for all into the ranks of the most developed nations is widely shared, and to many seems
closer now than ever before. OECD membrsship and further trade with the U.S. are exect  to come
eventually and quicken the pace. Conthnation and further enhancement of curent strategies are seen as vital,
particularly on the core concerns of (1) the economy and (2) social issues, including poverty, human resource
development, and environment. (The distributionof Government expenditureby sector is provided in Annex 2.)
32. On the economy, the principles used successfully to stabilize, liberailize, and privatize the economy in
earlier years of the admistrtion are still very dominant. A fimdamental reshaping of the roles of the private
and public sectors, a vigorous drive to lower trade barriers, a stdct adherce to tight fisa discipline, and a
sharp reduction in regulatory and legal iapediments to economic activity - with an overriding interest in
creating a level playing field for all - are seen as crucial for promoting private sector led growth and
accelerating long term development.
33.   On social issues, President Salinas has breathed new life into long-anding goals, partcularly with
regard to reducing poverty, upgrading educafion, and attacking enviromental problems. Details are discussed
in the secdons below. Overall, the aim is to energize social policies in ways that O) sharply improve services
that govemment should provide (and leave others to the private sector), (ii) bring real change for the better to
the least advantaged, who in the past frequenty got promses but little action, (i) promote and draw on grass-
roots organizig of local people, right down to the neighborhood level, and (iv) complement the rgorous
marlet-oriented economic program with help for those it misses or affects adversely in the transition to faster
growth, but without blunting the progress of economic reforms.
The Bank's Objectives
34.   The Bank's strategy, in support of promoting equitable, sustainable development, wil focus on: (1) reducing
povert and improving human resources development; (2) protecig the emniromnent; and (3) reviving growth and



8
fa;ilitating private sector development through addressing constraints in physical infrastructure and Institutional
development. This will involve assisting the Government in deepening ongoing sectoral reform programs that are
succeeding, reorienting those that are not, and Identifying further Issues that, If not addressed, could develop into
problems in fuure. The Bank will thus remain a strong supporter of the Government's program while also helping
to bring about change where needed.
35.   To these ends, the Bank wIll be paying particular atention to the areas elaborated in the subsections that
follow.
Macroeconomic Poliy
36.   The current administration has emrAhasized that it intends to remain firmly on course with the macroeconomic
policies that have served it well since 1988. The challenges It faces (see 'Recent Performance' above) will be
addressed with the aid of the strengths it has (also described above - i.e., its substantial budget swpus, drastically
reduced public debt, plentiful reserves, sharply decreased inflation, strong eal creditworthiness, and successfully
completed restructunring of govemen's role). The next administration (with a new President, since the constitution
prohibits reelection) will start its six year term in Deoember 1994. The contenders presently considered the most
likely possibilities all appear commited to continuity, although much may yet change before the future direction is
clear.
37.   Government leaders expect a gadua recovery leading to higher growth by mid-decade. The next year or
two, they realistically project, will be sluggish. The main risks are that the economy does not improve fist enough,
or worsens before it gets better. In that event, a slower - and less smooth - path to revived growth would result.
Even in that scenario, though, Mexico would remain creditworthy and in a manageable debt posture.
38.   The experience of other countries pursuing similar stabilization/reform progams suggests that Mexico's
current challenges are not unique or in   ble.  As the Govenment has emphasized, exchange rate
management is difficut in the face of strong foreign capital inflows; an inceae in consumption is not surprising
once an economy begins to recover from such a recession as Mexico went through, as well as when pervasive import
controls are lifted; and time Is required between when reforms are announced and their effects on efficiency and
production will be seen.
39.   For these reasons, we share the Govrnment's view that the medium-term prospects for Mexico are good.
Still, short-term challenges do edist and will need to be managed. The goal now is to reverse and recover from short
term slowdown while also working toward long term development. While demanding, this dual agenda is well
within reach. The outlook for the next few years remains positive, though with more risk th  anticipated a year
ago. Even with the recent uncertities, Mexico's situation is far better than at any other time in it recent history,
and more secure than that of many other counties.
Poverty Reduction
40.   The Government's strategy for attacking poverty involves action on svera aspects of the problem
simultaneously. The Bank's assessment concurs with the Government's on what is needed now. The Bank will assist
in each of the areas listed below.2
41.   First, economic growth is vital. The economic policies now in place, if condtmed and extended, offer the
best route to restoring sustnable growth. The importance of growth for povaty reduction has been demonstaed
2. Poverty infornation (Box 3) is available in (1) the last CEM ('Mexico in Trsnsitianw Toward a New Role for tde
Public Sector', May 1991) and red papers and (2) Poverty and Income Distibudon in Lati Ameia. The S't   of
the 1980s-, December 1992.



9
clearly by international evidence, as was shown by tie World
Development Report for 1990. Even the poorest 10 percent
of a population benefits when an economy is growing, and and                         ;, ?   ::
the losses to the poor when growth is lacking can
dramatically exceed what they can gain from special pover                         t
assistance programs. Furthermore, the poor benefit more                                a year and
than proportionately from growth when other initiatives such  Nert u           th;g   b      is
as those described below are also undertaken.                              a
42.   Second, social services need to be adequately  m             .      t       .
supported and sharply improved. The Salinas admitration    f                       b       ThEE
has taken bold action in this area.  Previously, public    !    z             I         t    E  A
expenditures on social services heavily favored the better-off   4   .     .      .  =
states, and spending cuts in the 1980s undermined efforts to   XM.
reach the poor.  Real per capita expenditure on social   D  
services declined throughout the 1980s, especially in the
health sector.   Since 1989 there has been a sharp    ,.
improvement, with education's share of the total budget  9 W  m
rising from 4.9% to 12% by ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1992, and wit healtsshar
increasing from 0.7% to 1.7%. President Salinas has made
a highly visible effort to correct these imbaances and to
ensure adequate provision of social services and basic infrastructure to disadvantaged areas (Box 3).
43. Third, and a critical part of social services upgrading, emphasis on human resources development is
needed to assure that the poor are healthy enough and educated enough to take advantage of new opporbtnities
arising from growth. Here, too, new steps are in process (see next section). Removing barriers that impede
the poor is especially important for women (see section on areas of special emphasis).
44.   Fourth, these efforts must include assuring that the new income-eafing oppornities generated by
growth are not wasted because the poor lack the necsay job skflls or cannot overcome other barriers to access
in labor markets. The most important - and frequenty the only - asset the poor have is their own labor.
Skills training can help them use that asset better, and is being actively promoted by new Government programs.
Currently, the Government is providing retraining to about 60,000 unemployed workers per year. Comparison
with those not receiving such retining demonstrates incrsed eamings of upwards of 30%. In addition, the
best training is stlli often work itself, as expience and on-ft-job trainng lead to new competencies.
Government policies are effectively supporting that concept as well, through facilitaing private-sector-led
growth that will result in increased demand for labor. The maquiladora industries in the north havt 'iown
vividly how untrained, poorly educated farm laborer can transform themselves into efficient factory v, .ers.
A flourishing of informal sector development, which for many of the poor can be a first step toward better jobs
later, is also essential. Small and micro entaprises account for 48% of employment in the food industry, 68%
in the textile industry, and 90% in retailing. Old regulations impeding informal sector development have been
lessened some, but furtier progress is required. Other barriers the poor face in labor markets include
geographic isolation for those living in many rural areas, and hiring practices that in the past have resulted in
some groups faring better tham others (e.g., men compared to women). Reifying these problems has only just
begun and will be a lengthy process.
45.   Fifth, the special problems of the rua poor must be confned. Of the approxinately 21 million
people (25% of the total population) who live in ru  areas, 12 million are extrmely poor (subsisting on less
than $350 per person per year), and many of the rest are at levels not much higher. Over 70% of Mexico's
extreme poor are in rural areas. lhe pootest of the rural poor have higher dependency ratios, more children,
and higher proportions of female headed households. The prospects for the rural poor will depend in part on



10
the effects of the recent trade liberalization
measures, most notably the gradual decontrol of
maize prices. While some rural groups (e.g.,
$oliw*kr*1 $fS ... v  ,                            growers of fruits and vegetables) will gain, the
:   bbWdU :6he 60,              poorest - who depend . a maize now and live in
.sollda4ty    ~     Xinitiatedb    *w.t   {areas where few other crops are profitable - will
:alina i5 1)eoembr 1W88, RaPOVAlb-e  :fo    lose. To offset this effect, the Government is
.aetin~.bealth e-ucation5 ntatr1ti. a:tctively developing programs that wIll
.i~plc~n~nt,  rn  tnwlsr,  Md ~lh.r                losers and provide a rural safety net
.'.v o sco,   l^                      particularly for those impacted most.
*ki$ed f~~ 9t Q                Q        46.   Sixh,  rban poverty must also be
than US$1.~ lihozun  ~..tackled. Of the 64 million urban dwellers, 5
E  E~ E      _                     mSNar cillion areoamong the extm   poor and up to 40
.   ...... . .       d.pndng n          million others are moderately poor. Conditions
.     are     . "    =    ffi   M   I m  for most of these households are difficult,
.j            .-"8 9    1    | 11 12 g      tbparticularly  for  those  living  in  squatter
neighborhoods where basic serces - such as
.n ohsprase.Rtcunoidteadowater, sanitation, electricity - are deficient or
capital intensivs than the Wol ons  il edtojbloss  nonexistent. Urban growth continues at a rapid
liztEly to                                           pace, and would accelerate further if NAFrA is
rafltied; but most growing cities lack an urban
wlimzthprbe Inatssg   u development strategy. New efforts are being
and  World Dank baa   ted 4Ipa&age Of    made to help them develop strategies, and a "100
WIhs  Bank's ~ support fr  the~ Goverment' pro cintes" program is focussing attendon on the most
~~~~~~ ~~~~glaring problems, such as water supply and
operations~~eat~                 sanitation. Efforts to expand the provision of
Human Resources 1 De elopment ddfo  p~*aa
49.    The Goverx t and Bank sare ac   view housing are also inmrative, given that there i a
r~~ ~~ ~ ~~. housing deficit of 6 million units. Significant
* ~ ,o~waer.~u4a'ntion  au4xi~*reforms in the housing sector have been initiate
that should enhance the targeting and efficiency
P00*'   ........~~~           of public subsidies to ensure they reach the
needy.
47.   Seventh, the changes set in motion by the economic and sectoral reforms (and accelerated by NAt TA,
if ratified) will have transitional effects that could adversely impact some of the poor not just in arcultu.re but
in other spheres as well. Restructuring of industries and conversion to new techinologies, some of them more
capital intensive than the old ones, will lead to job losses, and although the overall effect on employment is
likely to be evenually quite. positive, the transition process could be dif icult for some, especially the unskilled.
The Government hopes that its growth-reviving policies and other measures, including the Solidariad program,
will minimize this problem. In addition, it is stepping up efforts to ease access to credit for medium, small,
and micro enterprise.
$8.   Tfhe Banks support for the Government's program in these seven ares wfi be containe in lending
o~perations with objectives as outlined in Annex 1.
Hulman Resources Development
49.   The Government and Bank share a common view that strengthened hulman resources development will
have multiple benefits: poverty reduction; economic growth; and improved welfare generally, throgh the direct
effect that better education, health, etc. have on the public wellbeing.



11
SO.   Education.         Deep-rooted
deficiencies in the education system (Box 4)                   e
are being agessively addres  by the new
Govenment initiatives, with Bank support.  ;          b Sl  a  Iiitook               l    t die
A Primary Education project in the four       to
poorest states (Oaxaca, Chiapas, Guerrero,  seeded.   e             ba    nn frn   ompleto
and Hidalgo) and an Initial Education project                                               to e po t  a  hiru s t
(for children ages 04) in ten of the poorest  ;oIeq   wsu   uiy                      ettoat
states are now under way. Both projects                 toithe                       Xat , Ac-
emphasize  institutional  strengthening,       fpi                       a    i  ;.n
educational  quality  and  efficiency  .                                 _y
improvement, and targeting of disadvantaged W        t%
regions and population groups.   Bank                   KA                    1  S
assistance is also improving the supply of    _   =         _
textbooks and audio-visual materiWs to the                          talcwaeo~aua,et se
rural poor. In the fute, the Bank will
assist the Government strategy to expand
these efforts to other states, targetn  theA                          a    nd   n        
neediest first. Urgent needs for improving    atfeUeeedi.Ied   tb u   ln  trd  a
teaching will be addressed through anationa.                        %M 
teacher training project in FY94. Once these
issues are adequately dealt with, the Bankts
will support expansion of basic education to f   i nt     pol.isand there ied rajddth g
the lower secondary educaiont level and              i           i     de trouce
stregtheingof preschool (ages 5 and 6) and __                        6          Th
techcaltvocational education. (hog g                              in wheeed o the ptate
sector, imprved tagedng f traiing fo thep wlnmple  (thrIough gi evin srioiy atol thos wthi  mc prior wor
51.   Skivs fualntg. Mexico has well-
developed  and  sensible  policies  in and capa  4..ld.f  small      uiaren   aioale
employment and in labor markets, with a            f        s.
relatively strong involvement of the private
secr. More needs to be done, though, to fuly implement these policies and thereby optmize the gains
expected if NAFrA is implemented. Priority areas for further improvement include the efficiency of resource
allocaton in technical traning (through gret emphasis on shorter courses linked with the needs of the private
sector), improved targeting of trining fr the unemployed (through giving priority to those with prior work
experience), innovative training programs for under-educated rural migrants (initially on a pilot basis in
Guanajuato, Quertaro, and Mexido City), and capacity-building for small entrepreneurs. Bank support has led
to a new Labor Markets and Trdainig project, with possible further steps in future.
52.   Health. Like education, the health system has much unfinished business to attnd to (Box 5), which
the Government is now turing to in force, with the Bank assisting. A Basic Health Care project (PASSPA)
is tackling the most pressing priorities, namely through extending basic health care to 13 million uninsured
people in the staes of Oaxaca, Chiapas, Guerrero, Hidalgo, and the shanty towns of Mexico City, improving
medical supplies and upgrading health sector staff skills. Significant further reforms are required in public
health care delivery and financing systems to improve the coverage, quality, and cost-effectiveness of services.
The Bank is supporting Govenmen's search for solutions through several studies, and will provide major
investment support through future projects.
53.   Nwtrdt. About 14% of children under 5 suffer from moderate or severe malnutrition. Studies have
found that low income, unemployment, seasonal variations of food supply, intra-family differences in food
consumption, and nutrient losses due to parasites and other diseases are among the primary contributors to



12
nutriona problems. Measured undernutrition is
nearly four times bigher in fth rural southern
states than in the wrth. In the souierm states of
~~ ~~~ ~~    ~ ~ ~       Chiapas and Oaxaca, about 70% of preschool-age
progrs-a in  v X * E        a.f~tj~p~1attan~  ~     children suffer from some degree of malnutrition.
the 1980s, hv~~i~a  in Sbfle betith. mItv~e#    The  Government is working, with  Bank
.tsp~tcd~  Mewpw~   uU  er~.pl~or~A%t~f assistance, on de-veloping a food and nutrition
01)? onpi~ilcand~tite ieath ci~  biih I b~ neher strategy to reduce the incidence of malnutrition
ooUntr4 omp8hi~t4eVtopWPL  b*Qeut   through  the use of food  coupons, milk
Y~A*' te i~~i~ail t~ bealJ  1~il~It  ~  .~M distribution, and pilot health and nutrition
g&.:-P       m a e fl ;              !        projects. These pilot projects are being evaluated
SSUr4**U <g m  :  m  =and the results will serve as a basis for defining
~ YU   |       Z             2      |    E   E    = = food/nutrition policies and action plans, which
.......                                          = would serve as a basis for further Bank support.
~ ~ ~ .. ~~~          E~nvlrnmu.
E~fl~ct~ Ee~p1~  E    ,S    54.   The Govermnent is now taking firm
hiftWear -w~im~anca. ~1hen~, n~   measures to address environmental issues and
_ providoEa_, ~.pen~.~1~j~i~th uftfe*.~  reverse past neglect. On both environmentai and
ratal~O Im~e1,     bit  *.~to1~k ~~*A* economic grounds, thee is no time to lose.
Failureto act soon would result not only in
caamitous fur-ther envirorAmenta degradation but
also in retarded economic development, both
through deraling NAFTA (since Mexico is committed under NAFrA to significant environmental progress)
and through the longer term constraints to growth that emnironmen  damage causes.
55.   The problems are large, with major issues in water pollution, air pollution (especially in Mexico City
and Monterrey), solid and toxic waste disposal, aqufer depletion, and devastation of ecosystems and
biodiversity of exceptional worldwide importc. The steps the Government has taken thus far have been
substantial, but much more needs to be done. For example, the cross-cuting and cross-sectoral issues that lie
at the root of many enviromental problems need to be tackled more comprehensively. Efforts on air pollution,
for instance, need to do more about the urban transport and industri emissions issues that are the source of
the problem.
56.   The Govment Is now moving toward a more comprehensive approach with Bank support, especially
since high level dicussions between the Governent and the Bank in March 1993 (Box 6).
57.   The Bank will support the development and imple aIon of the strategy through expansions of its
analydtcal work policy dialogue, and lending. Since April 1992, two major operations (the Mexico
Environment Project with $50 million of Bank support and $30 million of Global Environmenl Facility
funding; and the Mexdco City Transport Air Quality Project with $220 million of Bank assistance) have been
approved. Further operations are planned tfiat will deal with water and sanitation, solid waste, toxic waste,
natural resources management, problems on the border with the U.S., and instiuional development.
58.   In addition, a new enviromtal section is being created in the Country Department to provide added
staff, epertise, and leadership for this putpose. The section is being structured so as to preserve and augment,
ratier than replace, the acive involvement in envmen   work of the sector divisions dealing with
agriculture, infrsuc, and human resources - so at intrinsic synergies across sectoral lines are not
thwarted.



13
59.  A d e c a d e o f                      1    Abn4otae  y
of' une ned  in alos al
ane withpaloset, ony0%  of the _~g
udertfiake  rehabilitatirone and        fl>       Coewra            dTa3 ao   ore.
mavlo finteane ha bee liie by          inia  i. mjozpelhi r
bed impiroved,ol  0    ofte  g.                                                    B t|    oi   ia lly EE 
pouaio  ae aces to piped                             l  |
thr  r  ny bu   eephone                iny,  Wa*inZ
haovernent'  strategy adis to                                          d
pwroviio cofesionsforatuur 3,2S0  3_G                                                        o
aseofices  rands to d improv cost 
precvery bythe utilities   ar   E                 v'a~it~~~p                      akW==    go
usAccmpishments i ti reailw ds  5c.                               _.4~ 
aredalready very ipenssive  te   _                  ...   ~~d      o_ __r
telep hos ne copany,T.dE,ingh                                r     wolz   ~- itew~t ~ou;
hasmin b and priaie n d 
imrovinge services, federpuli roadfcn    f  n        r     ilcnnu.IeBn  il upr hs
reyng onSc llvl the s pi ate secore eetiiiie to~s1~  enis pnvae aSciati  inv4 water suppl, Orwhate
traten ad old  aXngmet  o  atr ndelcticlyraeshae ee icrse sg.fiany..      h
whih,throu gh  tolrs    r y    oad th"«........ 10Xa. 2  r..y  A    esl,th  oersctrh. esd ob



14
a drain on public sector finances, and the water sector, though still short of financial self-sufficiency, is starting
to increase coverage and improve quality.
60.   The agenda for the future includes some difficult issues. Capital market constints limit private access
to financing on terms suited for infrastructure projects, which typically have very long payback periods; indeed
there are already some concerns about market saturation for medium-term paper for financing road projects.
The development of sound regulatory frameworks and establishment of regulatory bodies is only incipient.
Finally, some sectors may remain unsuited for private investment, as is the case of rural infrastructure which
holds low private rates of return, and the needs for investment in the maintenance and rehabilitation of the
highway network which remains in the public domain are still huge. These issues are the more pressing because
of NAFTA, which would result in increased trade flows (with consequent need for investment In transport
infrastructure) and in industry relocations, which also require supporting infrastructre. In addition, the
increased focus, heightened by NAFTA, on Mexico's environmental problems has a direct bearing on the
investment priorities for some subsectors, such as electricity generation and water and sewerage services,
including water treatment.
61. The Government is aware of the limitations that the issue of capital market constraints could mean for
its efforts to promote privae-sector-led development of infrastructure. It has thus asked the Bank to explore
the issue, both from a broad analytical standpoint and in terms of what the Bank could do to help. A Bank
assessment is now under way (the main mission was in the field in May 1993), looking at the underlying issues
and possible options. The conclusions from this work will determine what additional steps the Bank would
undertake. The IFC would be an important part of any fiuther help the Bank Group could provide In this area.
(MIGA as well, except that Mexico has so far declined to join MIGA). If the assessment now underway
concludes that an exanded role for IBRD support would make sense in this period, the lending program would
be modified accordingly. Whateer actions would be proposed would of course need to support, and not
undermine, the evolution of capital markets.
Agiculture
62.   The Mexican government intervened heavily in its agricultura sector for nearly forty yeas beginning
after World War H. Policy objectives were to promote sector growth, to relieve rural poverty, and to restrain
the prices of basic foods. Governm   agencies set outut prices, resticted imports and exports through quotas,
tariffs, and licenses, subsidized key inputs such as fertilizer, electricity, water and credit, and did much to
determe the pattern of production, the domestic marketing system, the foreign trade balance and the
distribution of agriculturd income. By the mid-1980s policy distortions had become very severe, public
exenditures for subsidies were high, and, as a result, growth in the sector fell to almost nothing.
63.   Since the mid-1980s, major reforms have been under way. The public sector's role in production and
marketing has been reduced, some trade protection has been cut, many input subsidies have been eliminated,
17 parastatals involved in markedtg and production have been dismated, 64 sugar mills have been privatized,
and public employment in agriculture has been slashed by more than 50,000. Some credit subsidies have been
lowered and the crop insurance system has been privatized, resulting in savings of more than US$300 million
since 1989. Beginning in 1991, the govamnent ended the historical land redistribution program and modified
the constiton to allow the development of a rural land market; the resulting stgtiening of private land
rights will help promote more investment in rural areas.
64. While the impact of these reforms on production has been low so far, the government has a clear policy
to move toward a free-market system in agriculture and the steps taken have established the basis for future
growth. NAFrA would further stregten the agricultura reform process.



15
65.   Bank strategy has extensively supported the reform proces. Two sectorD adjustment loans (AGSAL
I and AGSAL II) assisted Mexico in moving toward a market-based system of agricultural pricing. AGSAL
II assisted with a targeted system of food subsidies designed to increase the access of poor people to food. In
cormection with AGSAL IL, discussions are currently underway between the Bank and the Government with
respect to the second tranche release on the pace of price liberalization of rice, soybeans, and sorghum. Existing
lending supports appropriate public investments in the irrigation and drainage sector, research and extension,
a major public anti-poverty program, and rural development in the underexploited tropics of the country, all
of which are designed to raise the efficiency of public investment and to target it to poorer areas.
66.   The Bank is now preparing a series of operations to facilitate the adjustment to NAFMA, including loans
for small scale irrigation, rainfed agricultural development and a second rurd anti-poverty operation. An
agricultural sector memorandlm (ASM), to be presented to the next administration in 1994, will analyze policy
issues affecting the efficienzy of public investment and the private sector's ability to compete under NAFTA.
These include remaining price and trade reforms, transitional income support to producers affected by NAMTA,
rural poverty, food and nutrition, research and extension, irrigation and drainage, the rural financial sub-sector,
and intellectual property questions.
Insttuonal S -
67. The changing role of the state, from provider of infrastructure services and owner/operator of significant
industries, to policy-maker, regulator and major player in the social and environmental areas, is and will
continue to be a severe strain and a difficult challenge to a public  inistration that has undergone many lean
years and, as a result, has lost many qualified staff and has salary scales that are not competitive with those in
te private sector. While recently the Government has addressed some of its most conspicuous pay problems,
a fully satisfactory solution to pay scale issues will remain difficult given the fiscal austerity and continuing need
to downsize staffing. This makes the task ahead difficult and raises the priority of comprehensive institutional
stenhening efforts. Ihree areas merit specia attention: regulaton (of privatzed infrtructure services),
enAviromment, and education. While much has been done in these three fields by the present admstration, they
vwil be even more importnt in the next one.
68.   Also crucial will be cond  emphasis on decentalization efforts, which, to be successful, require
capacity building at the state and local level. This is an even more challenging task an at the national level,
since the quality of civil service below that level is often much weaker. Although much of what needs to be
done is conceptaly simple (e.g., improving tax admistration, reducing red tape, and developing civil service
career paths), successfl imple tion is not easy. One complication at the municipal level is that mayors
are only elected for three year terms (and cannot be reeected). Often a new mayor brings a new management
team, so all efforts tend to have a short time horizon, and long term issues fall to be addressed adequately.
There is also need to stegthen the national ins"tions through which the central govermnent provides financial
support and technical guidance to the state and local agencies, in such matrs as water, urban transport, solid
waste mnagement and tax administration.
69. The Government, with Bank assistance, is beginning to confront these issues more systematically.
Insttutional strengtening components have been included in operations in viruly the all sectors the Bank is
asisting, and some projects - such as the Decentrdization and Regional Development Project aiding the four
poorest states - are concerned maiy with these issues. Recenty completed sector work on decentralization
and urban managemet dealt with municipal level problems, and a seies of workshops sponsored by the Bank
is helping sectoral authorities explore possible solutions. In addition, special attention is being given to
strengtening BANOBRAS, one of the national development bank. Two recent loans include teal
assistane to BANOBRAS, and joint Bank/BANOBRAS missions are reviewing its organization and procedures.
This will be a continuing effort over the coming years.



16
Areas of Specal Emphasis
70.   Preceding sections have already covered many of the priorities for special emphasis in Mexico - for
example, poveny, human resources developm, environent, and instaiond str engthening. These areas are
core elements of the Bank's Mexico strategy. Two other priorities, implicit in the foregoing discussions but
meriting further highlighting here, are private sector development and improvement of the situaion of women.
(Additional detail on the areas of special emphasis in the FY1992 and FY1993 lending program, by project,
is provided in Annex 3.)
71.  PNate seCtor development. Mexico's accomplishments in reorieting a state-dominated to a private-
sector-led economy have rightly been recognized as a paradigm for other developing countries to follow in
promoting private sector development, and Goverment leaders now find themselves besieged with requests to
share their experience worldwide. With economic policies now frmly oriented toward creating a better enabling
environment for the private sector, and with the privatization or closure of nearly 900 parastatals completed,
the Governent is now concentrating on further steps, including eliminating constraints that impede
entrepreneurial activity. Tbis involves correcting infrastructure deficiencies and dismantling excessive regutxory
requirements.
72.   The Bank has strongly supported measures to enhance prvate sector development and wil continue
doing so in the years ahead. Projects in infastructure, agriculture, industry, and finance have focussed mainly
on this issue (see Annex tables). A Private Sector Assessment is being compleed now that focusses on the
remainig actions necessary to complete and consolidate the reform program and on some of the key constraints
to fiuther productivity growth. In addition, the analysis now under way on private financing of improvements
in infrastructure (paras. 60 and 61), underaken at the Government's request, is addressing a major issue relating
to constrans on future private sector growth.
73.   Womn=.  The situation of women in Mexico has changed markedly in recent decades.  The
economically active female population increased from 14% in 1950 to 29% in 1985, and is believed to be still
rising today. In the industi work force, women have gone from 12% to over 28%. A 1990 study found that
although access to primary and lower secondary education and equality in educational opportunities for women
are good, illiteacy is stfll higher among females (20.1%, compared to 13.8% for males, according to 1980
data), and school atendance rates are lower for girls tm  boys. Every new administation since 1980 has
introduced new programs to improve oppormities for women, the latest being linked to the Solidaridad
program and thus concentrating, sensibly, on women in poverty. Overall, Meoxco is more advanced than some
countres in coming to grips with gender issues, but much more remains to be done. The Bank's assistance
supports Goverment efforts in diverse sectors, especially in the human resources area. A project on labor
markets and trainig issues is helping women get job training and find jobs. A project on early childhood care
is aiding women in learning better home-based child rearing practices and preparn children from ages 0 - 4
for timely school entry. A project on health care is training 23,000 community health workers and mid-wives
to provide services for pregnant women.
Lending Levels and Cimpion
74.   Part Indig. The Bank vigorously supported Mexico's economic adjustment program in the FY86-90
period with loans totaling almost US$9.5 billion, more thn half of which were quickly disbursing sector
adjustment and interest support loans. During the FY86-89 period adjustment loans were made for trade policy
liberalization, industi ructurig and dergulation, privatization and public sector reform, and agriculta
and financa sector reforms. The thmst of Bank lending in FY90 was directed at supporting Mexico's debt
reduction program. In PY90, peaks were reached in loan commntnents and disbursements of US$2.6 bilion
and US$3.6 billion, respectively. FY91 was a transitional year in Bank lendig. Adjustment lenig fell to
25 percent of the $1.8 billion of total new loan commitmnt and three of the eight operations approved wero



17
targeted  at poverty  alleviation.   By  FY92,
adjustment lending had fallen to zero (where it has                 F4 ure
remained since), new commitments had setled to
$1.5 billion, and half of the six operations were in    _ lm*do in m lhkagtokico
the areas of poverty and environment.  (Further
details on the levels and composition of Bank       so   51
lending by sector since 1982 are provided in        so                               30%
Anxs5-8.)                                       80     %
70
75.   FWwve Lending.  Our strategy for the          60
Bank's role for FY94-96 is primarily a continuation  5s                              3sx
of thc course charted a year ago. The decisions      o 
made then, signalling a major shift from prior years,  30  61% \ sw
noted that while the period requiring adjustment                          \
lending was over, the task of achieving and          2035
maintaining suswinable, equitable growth for a       lo
modernized Mexico still had very far to go.          o
FYl198O        FYIN4-45
76.   The lending program will continue to focus
on: revival of private-sector-led growth (hrough
improving infrastructure, agricuture and urban development); poverty reduction and human resources
development; and the environment. As shown below, a slight shift in the balance among these categories is
planned, though, stressing the environment more':
teIo~~~~~~~w  -~~~~~.......
77.   On revival ofgrowth (through improving  fastte, agriculture, and urban development), opersions
are planned that will correct deficient policies and eliminate botdenecs and inefficiencies in: road maintenance;
medium cities urban transport; raiways; electric power; agricutural development for rainfed areas; and on-farm
and small-scale irrigation. As growth recovers and the country is better able to meet its infiastructure
requirmnts on its own without assistance, our lending in this area will decrease, as shown in the table above.
3. Percentages shown have been rounded and are based on numbers of projects Distdbutions by dollars ln how
a similar shift from last year's to this year's plan. lhe data fom last year's pla have been recallated to includu  aU
humn resoures projects in t second categoay, so that definitions are consitent.



18
78.   On poverty reduction and human resources development, operations will concentrae on: initial (early
childhood), primary, and secondary education; training programs for the unemployed and for worker on the
job; basic health and mntrition services; and regional development linked to the Solidaridad program.
79.   On the environmental, operations will address Issues in: air pollution; institutional strengthening; water
supply and sanitation; toxic waste management; solid waste disposal; natural resources developmen; and priority
regional Initiatives, including the U.S.lMexico Border Plan.
80.   Our strategy will continue the approach adopted last year of emphasizing the use of project instruments
that maximize the development impact of Bank lending. Thus, we will be stressing sector policy lending, time-
slice financing, and innovation in project design - all oriented toward specific policy goals. (Further details
on the policy goals, by sector, are provided in Annex 1).
81.   The total amount of annual lending will depend on how rapidly and effectively the executing agencies
identify, prepare, and implement projects and the sectora policy changes needed to sup'oot them. Unexpected
delays in sectoral reforms or major setbacks in economic progress could slow the pace at which projects are
presented to the Board, stretching out the lending program and causing each year's total to be smaller than it
would be otherwise. Capacity constraints in executing agencies could limit how much can be accomplished in
particular sectors, opertions and time periods. Assuming no serious difficulties, total lending is epected to
remain in about the same range it has been recently - and thus be under $1.5 billion per year.
82.   A lending program of up to $1.5 billion anmually would continue the gradual downward trend since the
period of adjustnent lending ended. Over the past six years, Bank lending first i ased due to adjustment
lending (from $1.7 billion in FY87, to $2.0 billion In FY88, $2.2 billion in FY89, and $2.6 billion in FY90),
and then decreased in the transition to the post-adjustment era (from $1.9 billion in PY91, to $1.5 billion in
FY92). After decliang temporarily to $1.2 billion in PY93, lending is expected to be close to $1.5 billion in
FY94. In the unlikely event of significant reversals in economic policy, the Bank would shift to a smaller core
program aimed at preserving existing inrastructre and addresn poverty and environment problems. Within
sectors, failure to make key policy changes would trigger a reduction or cessation of new lending.
83.   The strtg outlined here would lead to a gradual reductio in the Banl's exposure in Mexico. One
of the Bank's largest single borrowers, Mexico account for 12% of the Bank's total loan portfolio (see eposure
indicators in Table on p. 2). While this is above the 10% guideline, a country's track record in meeting
payments is obviously importt, and Mexdco's has been impeccable. It has never halted payments to the
Bretton Woods institutions, even during the severe debt crisis of the 1980s. With the lending program proposed
here (assuming $1.5 billion yearly), the 12% exposure would fall below the 10% guideline by 1997. The
smaller lending program compared with previous years would create more space for responding to fuue needs
in the event of any unforeseen setbacks. The large reserves the central bank is accumulatig (over 6% of GDP,
$18.5 billion at the end of 1992, and higher more recently) provide added security.



19
Portfoio Mngmn
84.   Forty four projects with a total                .. .....i
loani amount of $20.14 billion nti of    ~ ~ o~f~I~  otVl uogiet'ilIcue
cancellations  are  now   under 
implementation. Regarding the status of          ti            wusi Gvwonticaya,ad
the portfolio, 39 of the 44 projects.;;g .ina                     s     tb     tl     n    o
(89%) are rated "1" or "2" - no serious    j ;59 1W t'I '; '-.'
problems  -  according  to  project                                         .trntepofIi,b
supervision ratings . The remaining five                                    fp c 
are rated "3" (there are problems but       t the                            t
they are remediable); none is rated worse   I    = 
than "3". The average rating for the       ~. 
entire portfolio is 1.7, and has remained  ~4$g~IUtsl~   n  ~aair
at that level for three straight years. (A  N":
list of all Bank projects with  an  .                  r =                                    e
undisbursed balance is provided  in                                                   g bje t ve
Annex  4, along  with  the  project. d g1                  iet.ouen.reet
performa4nce ratings.)
85.   Among th projects experincing                        irbMUSIC
difficulties, an urban transport project            ~~prf1
has had delays in some components,
centered on two states, Nuevo Leon and       g                i   iip       o    e e     active
estate of Mexo; other componens of                 A   Ibi      b                           and
the project have been  implemented                             __                         both at
satsfatoialy.A plan of action hasw *~~
now  been  agreed  to  resolve the   
outstanding issues. A water supply and
sanitation project has suffered from
weaknesses  within  two  executing                                   *p&.mngmn
agencies. Recent frank discmssions with  
both, and a change of leadership in one                     . =    = 
of them, have improved the prospet for  ~      O   .Q5 ~           4of~~  Q~4~f
progress.   A  foresty  development                  *
project has been stalled by inadequte       .      _n
budget  allocations  and  insufficient    .  m.
comitmntby the primary excting
agency. With some parts of the work                                                           y
now  completed, the  possiblity  of                                   .I*11 asth   u*
cancelling  the  rest is now  being  .                      =.
explored. Two agriculture projects have.
been adversely afected by changing      _                   l =    *          
views within Goverment about basic =
policy issues conceing agricultural
pricing and how best to allow for the issues.
effects of NAFTA  Discussions are still 
in progress on these issues.



20
86. There have been no problems of high cost overruns recently The only significant case of not meeting
covenants occurred in a railways project, and this Is being addressed by reforms that the national railways
company is taking to improve its operations in the context of the preparation of a follow up project.
87.   Gross disbursements in FY92 were $1.51 billion, slightly more than new commitments. The portfolio
had a total undisbursed balance of $3.5 billion as of February 28, 1993, which is 17% of the total loan amount.
The disbursement ratio (disbursements in a fiscal year as a percentage of the undisbursed balance at the
beghuiing of the year) was 39% last year (FY92). Disbursement ratios have been generally been high in
comparison with other countries receiving Bank support, and lately have been increasing further - from 25%
in FY91.
88.   The Bank and the Government have been working closely together to improve project implementation.
The importance of effective portfolio management has now been fiuter heightened by: the return to investment
lending, the bigh policy content of the new pro;jcts, the challenges of new subjects (in poverty and
environment, e.g.), the continuing need to search for innovative solutions, and the limitations of the sectoral
ministries. Stepped up efforts and new initiatives to strengthen portfolio management (Box 7) are helping, not
just on Bank projects but on other Govermnent implementation activities as well.
DC and MIGA
89.   ZFC. As a result of Mexico's economic reform and the resulting increased confidence in the country,
pivate sector investment in Mexico, by both Mexican and international investors, has increased. This has
inreased the demand for IFC financing. IFC has concluded over 25 transactions over the last three fiscal years,
with a gross investment of US$862 million.
90.   IFC's operational strategy has been to support the Mexican private sector in adapting to the opening of
the economy and to assist it in its re-entry to the international financial markets. The Corporation's investments
have thus far been primarily directed at larger Mexican companies and have included a mix of activities which
have encompassed corporate restuctrings, capacity expansions, modernizations, efficiency enhancements, and
greenfield operations. Mexico's capital markets, tourism, food processing, and manufacg have benefitted
most from IFC's past investment. Operations in mining, petrochemicals, and agribusiness have remained
modest due to the slower progress achieved by the Government in opening these sectors to private foreign
capital or in implementng the reforms needed to stimulate private investments in these economic activities.
91.   With the ongoing economic liberalization program and despite increasing competitive pressures,
prospects for a continuously active role for IFC in Mexico remain favorable. However, in defining the scope
and characteristics of its future Mexican activities, IFC will have to take into account the fact that the pace of
its recent investments has brought its portfolio close to the maximum country exposure limits. More
specifically, as of December 31, 1992 Mexico was IFC's highest exposure country. Its outstanding Mexican
investments - which involved loans of US$583 million and equity participations of US$80 million - accounted
for 12.3 percent and 10.6 percent of total investments disbursed and held by the Corporation on that date.
92.   For FY93, the exposure constraint has required the Corporation to adopt an investment strategy that
emphasizes greater resource mobilization and a more selective approach to portfolio composition. As in the
past, the mix of IFC activities in Menxico will remain highly diversified with equity and quasi-equity investments
exected to account for about 20 pernt of approvals. A greater concentration of resources is being devoted
to assisting "second tier" industial enterprises of the manufacting sector, promoting infrastructure and
agribusins investments, and helping Mexico address its environmental problems. IFC's capital market
activities have focused on the commercial banking system where it has helped establish credit and agency lines
in support of small- and medium-size (SME's) borrowers. IFC is broadening its efforts to finance SME's by
supporting the establishment of ventue capital funds. Emphasis is also being placed on providing risk



21
maamet inStruments, asset scuritzation, liquidity backup facilities for unewriting and assistance to
financial institutions in raising funds in foreign markes. Efforts will continue to be made to improve the access
of large non-financial companies to the international financial markes. To ensure grat IFC diversification,
opetions will be focused on those cases where the concened entprise will either initiate its entry to the
inrtional capital markets, need IFC's support to successfilly place equity or debt offerings among foreign
investors, or require innovative financial engineering to firm up project financing or hedge financial risks. In
line with this country strategy, IFC's Mexican activities are expected to consist of 8 investments and an IFC
net of US$118.0 million in FY93 as compared to 10 investments and US$141 million in FY92.
93.   AIG4. Mexico is not a member of MIGA. The Bank has encouraged the Government to join MIGA,
and will continue to do so in future.
Cooperat§ion Wth Other Multateral Instituions
94.   Bank/IMP collaboration has been close over the years, especially since 1982, when the Fund began to
assist the Government in addressing the underlying causes of the economic crisis. Since that time, the
Government has benefitted from an extended arrangement for SDRs 3.4 billion, a special emergency drawing
for SDRs 291 million after the 1985 earthquake, a stand-by for SDRs 1.4 billion in 1986 and, in 1989, from
an SDRs 2.8 billion extended arrangement through 1993 and a drawing of SDRs 453 million under the
compensatory fcility. Consultations between Fund and Bank staff concerning Mexico's current economic
situation and prospects have led to a mutual undmtanding about the measures needed to bring the stabilization
program to a successful conclusion, strengthen the balance of payments, and restore sustinable growth.
95. The Inter-American Development Bank increased its annual lending from about US$160 million in the
1987 to 1989 period to the US$1 billion level begiming in 1990. It has been able to do this, in part, by
cofinancing some of its operations over the last two years with the Bank. Ihe cofinanced operations have
required a close coordination between the Bank and IlDB on project appraisal and mainte    of policy
conditionality. These efforts have been successf and have significantly added to Mexico's external resource
availability. The Bank has played a similar but smaller role with Japan, where Bank lending has been
responsible for official financing for projects at are being financed in coordination with the Bank in the energy
and environmental sectors.
D. SummARY A&SEmw
96.  CO'rreat SYfadon and Insae. Mexico has been highly successl since the mid-1980s in stabilizing,
liberalizing, and privatizing its economy and resolving its debt problem. The main challenge now is that the
economy has yet to respond strongly to the reform measures: GDP and productivity growth are still weak, and
the current account deficit is very large (7.1% of GDP). At the same time, some sectoral reforms have moved
slowly. The Govemen's objectives remain finly directed toward accelerating sustable privat-sector-led
development while also aggessively addressing poverty and environment problems. The pace of progress
toward these goals could be affected by (1) whether the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) is
ratified and implemented, and (2) who wiU be the next President (whose six year term will begin in December
1994). Also important will be: decisions about monetary and exchange rate policy; efforts to eliminate
remaining obstacles to growib, especially infrastructure bottlenecks; and advances in deepening the reforms,
within sectors (e.g., agriculture), across sectors (e.g., liberalization of labor regulations), and downward within
the public sector (state and local government).
97.   Prospec&. Well aware of these issues, the Government is strongly committed to continuing the reform
process and maitning strict discipline in macro policies. With its substantial budget surplu, greatly reduced



22
public debt, plentiful reserves, drastically lowered inflation, good external creW'itworthiness, much trimmed-
down public sector, and supportive orientation toward private sector development, Mexico has strengths to draw
on if problems arise. Still, the weakness of recent economic performance has increased the level of risk since
a year ago. Government leaders expect a gradual economic recovery leading, In a few years, to growth of 4%
or more anually. The main risks are that recovery remains elusive or policy reversals occur, if, for example,
the implementation of NAFrA is deleayed or the new President changes course. In that case, a longer period
of slow growth could ensue, or (ess likely) a substantial setback before an upturn. Even in a low base scenario,
Mexico would be expected to remain creditworthy. Since its first Bank loan in 1949, it has never missed a
payment to the Bretton Woods institutions.
98.   Lending Strategy. The lending program recommended here - somewhat smaller than previous years'
and more focussed on poverty, human resources, environment, and private sector development - would be
consistent with Bank and Government priorities. It would be linked to performance: in the event of policy
backtracking, lending would be reduced - in the worst case to a small core program aimed at protecting key
priorities, e.g., human resources and environment. The Govermnent has indicated it wants to maintain a full
Bank program, less now to obtain financial resources than to ensure that vital sectoral reforms are well designed
and implemented. The proposed program would be responsive to this request, would contain no adjustment
lending, and would result in a gradual reduction in the Bank's exposure in Mexico . The principal constraining
factors will likely be the absorptive capacity of implementing agencies and the tight budget restrictions they face
(as continued tight fiscal discipline limits their resources, including provision of counterpart funds).
PART II
PROPOSED LOAN
99.   Background. As explained in Part 1, Mexico has gone a long way in restucturing its economy and,
by opening it to foreign competition and expanding the role of market forces in resource allocation, is laying
the basis for sustained economic growth. However, a decade of underinvestnent in infrastructure, resulting
from restrictive fiscal policy, has resulted in a heavy backlog of unmet needs in almost all subsectors. In the
highway sector, the Government, with Bank assistance, has enacted mes to deregulate road transport
services, privatize highway constuction through concessions, and contract out highway maintenance activities
to the private sector. The 1989-94 National Program for Transport Modernization reflects these Government
strategies. Ihe economic crisis that began in 1982 has had a severe effect on the sector, and annual investments
- including funding for highway rehabilitation, resurfacing and maintenance (HRRM) - declined from aboit
US$800 million in 1982 to US$400 million in 1989 (of which only about US$120 million was spent on
maintenance and rehabilitation). Since then there has been an effort to increase the HRRM budget. HRRM
expenditures have increased through support from the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2875-ME),
from US$120 million in 1989 to US$320 million budgeted for 1993. Despite these efforts, 60% of the network
is in poor condition and there is a serious HRRM backlog on the federal highways, 90% of which were paved
before 1980. Traffic safety is also a growing concern in light of the high number of traffic falities (an
estimated 15,000 per year).
100. For greater transport sector efficiency, planning at the multimodal and modal levels needs to be
improved, especially for highway maintenance, to ensure informed and cost-effective decision making based
on sound management, economics and engineering principles. To decentalize administrative responsibility
for rural roads, insdtutional strengthening is needed at the state level. Some support is being provided under
the Bank-financed Decentralization and Regional Development Project (Loan 3310-ME) to stnen  the
implementation capacity of state road agencies.



23
101. Objectives. 'he project aims to: (a) protect and enhance past investments in the federal highway
network through investments in rehabilitation and resurfacing of paved highways; (b) improve HRRM planning
by strengthening the institutional capacity of SCTs highway maitnae directorate, DGCCOP; (c) support
measures to improve fimding for HRRM; (d) reduce transport costs through improvements in traffic safety and
more efficient traffic flow on the federal highways; and (e) support further policy improvements through (i)
studies and action plans on road financing; (i) development and implementation of a computerized data base
for the transport sector; (iii) preparation of project planning and evaluation manuals; and (iv) improved
consideration of environmental factors in highway maintenance.
102.  Desciption.  The project objectives would be achieved through the implementation of: (a) an
institutional strengthening component for improving transport sector planning and policies (UJS$7.27 million);
Ob) a comprehensive, four-year HRRM program for the federal highway system (US$1,532.48 million); and
(c) a road traffic safety program (US$20.25 million).
103.  The insdmonal stenghening component would include specific measures and actions to improve: (a)
sector planning and coordination, especially for HRM; (b) HRRM funding and budget preparation; (c)
sustainabiity, through development of a coherent framework for road sector financing; (d) control of truck
overloading, through the issuance of revised vehicle weight and size regulations and a program for their
implementation; (e) specifications for HRRM works, to include quarry management and pollution control of
construction equipment; (f) the system for truck driver education, tes#Ang and licensing; and (g) training of
sector staff.
104.  Thefour-yearfederal HRR  program  would include about 27,000 km of highway rehabilion and
resurfacing (of which 11,000 km would be financed by the Bank), improvement and rehabilitation of bridges
and matenanc depots and replacementtrehabilitation of equipment, as well as consultancy services. To
promote sound financing practices for the sector, routine manteac  would be excluded from Bank fancing.
Also, to build gradually expenditues for rehabilitation and resurfacing works into the Government's budget
financing for future years, Bank loan disbursements for road civil works would be on a declining percentage
basis.
105.  lhe road affc sftn program, would seek to increase public road safety awareness and to improve
driver behavior. It would include improvement of some 350 hazardous road locations (mostly intsections
and sharp curves). The works would be undertaken under the proposed project effier as part of the main
highway rehabilitation works or under separate contracts as appropriate. This program would also finance the
purchase of equipment for a new licensing and vehicle inspection system and to strengthen the preventive
medical unit (mcluding equipment for drug and alcohol detection), as well as road safty studies and information
campaigns, a vehicle standards study and an intrational tfic safety seminar.
106.  Total Cost and Pbancing. The proposed loan would finance a portion of SCI's 1993-1996 HRRM
Program, the traffic safety and institional components, and technical assistance, studies and training. The total
project cost is estimated at about US$1,560 million equivalent wth a foreign exchange component of US$637
million. The proposed loan of US$480 million would finance 31% of project costs. The road safey seminar,
which vould cost about US$120,000, would be fianced with aid from Sweden, UK, France and the Mexican
private sectr. The Government would finane the remaiing US$1,079.88 milion. Retroactive financing up
to US$30 million equivalent is proposed for expenditures incurred aftr November 1, 1992. It will be used
to finance the initial cost of the first batch of works initiated during the construction season as well as some
consultant services required to start up the project. The breakdown of esimated costs and the proposed
financing plan are provided in Schedule A. The amounts and methods of procumet and the proposed
allocation of loan proceeds are provided in Schedule B. A timetable of key processing events and the status
of Bank Group operations in Mexdco are presented in Schedules C and D. Also attached is the SAR
No. 11720-ME dated May 18, 1993.



24
107.  Implementatlon. BANOBRAS would be the Borrower and would transfer the loan preeds to the
Guarantor (the United Mexican States), who would carry out the project through SCr. SCr has implemented
ten federal highway projects with the Bank and would be responsible for project execution through its various
general directorates. For project implementtion, SCT would condinue to use its Office of Coordination of
External Financing, which would coordinate the project activities with BANOBRAS. BANOBRAS would also
prepare and submit to the Bank the loan disbursement applications. Annual consultations on SCT's HRRM
Program and the budget would enable the Bank to review the progress of program implementation with SCI
and other Government agencies, notably SHCP. All subprojects would be evaluated and selected following a
methodology satisfactory to the Bank, which would include an environmental assessment in all cases warnted.
An improved specification for highway maintenance works under the responsibility of contractors, including
the coverage of cultural patrimony, quarry management and pollution control of construction equipment, has
also been agreed.
108.  S_laity. The project design stresses institutional strengthening and appropriate fimding of
HRRM. To ensure institonal sustnabiity, the Government Is reorganizing SCr's Highway Maintenance
Directorate following recommendations from studies carried out by exemal consultants and, also with the
assistance of consultants, has developed highway maintenance strategies that underpin the proposed project.
The reorganization seeks to separate strategic ad operational work by gradually transfrring present operational
acivities to SCF's regional centers and by contracting out some activities to the private sector. The study on
highway maitenance strategies offers a planning tool to prepare budgets and HRRM programs. lnten
participation by Government officials in these studies has increased Government commitment to implementing
their recommendations.
109. The Government has taken a mnmber of steps in recent years to increase recovery of road costs from
users. Besides raising gasoline prices beyond international levels, and diesel fuel close to such levels, it has
increased tolls on the federal toll network substantially in real tems since 1988 with higher real inreases levied
on heavy vehicles. A "voluntary user fee that SCr negodated with the trucking industry at the end of 1992
should contribute additonal modest resources to the fimding of mant ce. Furthermore, to alleviate the
budget constraint, the Govemment has been seeking significant private sector fiancing and began in 1989 to
grant concessions to the private sector for the consuction, maintenance and operation of highways and bridges.
By 1994, the Government expects to have a total of 4,000 km under private concession contracts, for which
private sector financing of about US$7.5 billion is expected. (ro date 3,250 km are under concession of which
some 1,400 km are in operation and the private sector has disbursed about US$3.5 billion). Increased reliance
on the privately financed and opeated network is intended in part to enhance recovery of costs associated with
major new highways. However, high tolls on this system have led to lower than expected traffic. A recent
review of road user charges indicates that, in the aggregate, HRRM costs are being fully recovered, but, despite
the measures taken to date, heavy vehicles still do not contribute at levels commensurate with the damage they
cause to the network. Given the stuctur changes which the sector has undergone, it was agreed at appraisal
that a comprehensive review of highway finncing strategies, and an asesment of resource mobilization
options, woud be carried out. The project would provide for a symposium to support dialogue on these issues
between the public and private sectors and, based on a comprehensive study, the possible development and
implementation of a related action plan. The stdy would include an initial definition of ways of measuring and
recovering indirect costs, such as those associated with accidents and the environment. An interagency tchnical
group (the cost recovery group), headed by SHCP, was established during preparation to take the lead on these
issues, and will serve as the locus for the work to be carried out under the project.
110.  Lemons from previous Bank bivolvanent. Ihe Bank has been heavily involved in Mexico's highway
sector since 1960. During the macroeconomic crisis of 1980-88, there were slippages in institutional
strenghening, sector planning, investment optimization and priorization, and highway mainteance. Ihe
experience with the three sector investment loans shows that instituional measures take a long time to implement
and that up-front actions on important matters and intense participation of Government officials during project



25
preparation are effective in speeding up the process. The proposed project desig draws upon this experience
by involving Government offcials more in project preparation and by seeking key Government decisiots before
project appraisal.  It conthmes efforts srted in the Highway Maintnce and Road Transport and
Telecommunications Sector Adjustmen Projects (Loans 2875-ME and 3207-ME) to improve the size and
distribution of budget allocations to maintenmce.
111.  Rationale for Bank involvement. MTe Bank lending stae  supports private-sector-led growth, aims
to strengthen Governmuent instituions and policies in a climate of comprehensive reform, and caphasizes
environmental policies. The Bank's stegy for the tsport sector seeks in particular to: (a) consolidate
highway maintenance objecves and help catch up on delayed maintenance and rehabilitation of existing assets,
which has higher economic reuns than new Investments; (b) strengthen Investment selection and prioritization
to ensure that they are mainly based on economic criteria; (c) support institutional and policy reforms and the
use of sound economic analysis to ensure efficient traffic allocation between modes; (d) encourage
decentralization and private sector participation where appropriate; and (e) promote thorough assessment of the
environmental implications of tasport imvestments and ensure that, when required, appropriate mitigation
measures are taken. The Bank's sector lending program through FY95 would include the proposed Highway
Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project and a Railway Restructuring Project. These will be supported by
ongoing work to identify and address sectoral issues raised by the anticipated ratfication of a Free Trade
Agreement between Mexico, the Unied States and Canada, and to- improve coordination between the various
transport modes.
112.  Agreed Actions. The Government's project implemention letter includes the 1993-96 HR1M
Program, reflected in physical and finanal terms. The program was prepared on the basis of a maintenance
stra  developed by SCr with consultant assistance. The strategy is compatible with finmcial constrains,
preserves the highway network and maxmizes Its economic return. The most significant sector issue is the
insufficient level of HRRM budget allocations. Efforts to allocate more funds to HRRM are constrained by
macroeconomic policy. Although the US$320 million allocation for 1993 represent 82% of the proposed total
budget for highway sector and a 33% increase over the 1991 HRRM budget amount, and shows the
Goverment's commimet to find HRRM in a period of macroenomic constrain, it falls far short of the
about US$700 million needed annually to eliminate the HRRM backlog by the yea 2001. Due to the high
pavement deterioration rate, this amount would be enough to prevent further deterioration of the network but
not enough to achieve any significant improvements. The Governmen's Highway Mainace policy letter
presented in support of the proposed project spells out the Governmeet's intentions for grear allocaions of
resources to HRRM beyond 1993, and its commitment to assigning priority to maintenace in future budget
allocations. In addition, the anual review mechanism would Include a follow up of experience with past
maintenance allocations and consideration of increases in fuure allocations.
113. The project design has stressed up-front actions, and during project preparation several studies were
carried out regarding key instituional issues and decisions. As a result, SCI"s Maintenance Directorate was
reorganized, a cost recovery group was established, and a Planning Coordination Office (CGP) was created.
Durhg negoiaoms agreement or confimation was reached on the following: (a) the Government to carry out,
£ by contract, at least 70% of the rehabilitation worls; (0) the timetable and implementaton targets for action
programs to (i) formally establish CGP before December 31, 1993, and to strengthen its capabilities, (ii)
implement the reorganization of DGCCOP, (il) develop and implement fte highway mntance management
system, (iv) continue the work of the cost recovery group, (v) enact and implement the vehicle size and weight
regulations, (vi) implement the taining pogram, (vii) implement the HRRM program, and (viii) implement the
Traffic Safety Component; (c) the scope and content of the Highway Maintenance policy letter; (d) the
preparation of the annual HRRM program to be ystematized and have adequate balance between rehabilitation,
resurfacing and routine maintenance; (e) review with the Bank, by October 31 of each year, the budget proposal
for the following year, and by Jamuay of each year the HRRM budget for that fisca year. Ihe Bank would
not consider financing new subprojects under the loan, for any given year, until it had been demonstrated that



26
the budgetary allocations for highway maintenance and rehabilitation are, for the year in question, reasonably
within the levels set forth in the 1993-96 HIRM Program and cover the completion of Bank approved
subprojects commenced in a prior fiscal year; (t) the Government to coninue to pursue its policy of ensuring
adequate road user charges, and submit to the Bank an annual report on the status of highway cost recovery;
(g) prepare by December 31, 1994 a study on the road financing straegies and resource mobilization options,
and if the Bank and the Govemment agree on the suitability of the study recommendations, submit by June 30,
1995 a satisfactory action plan of stategies and measures to be adopted, and implement the plan thereafter; (h)
the Government to enact before December 31, 1993 the vehicle size and weight regulations; (i) the preparation
of an annual report on the road safety situation; () the proposed 1993-1996 HRRM Program; (k) SCr to
prepare and fiunish to the Bank, by December 31 of each year, a summary report assessing progress made in
implementing the HRRM Program; () SCr to furnish to the Bank, by January 31 of each year, the estimated
monthly cash flow of HRRM expenditures for that year, confirming that the majority of the budgetary funds
would be available to SCr during the frst semester of the fiscal year, and that an authorization (Oficio de
Secas) to allow for start of works has been issued by SHCP; (m) SCr to contract independent consultants to
assist DGCCOP in the coordination of the program and to provide technical assistance to work supervision
teams; (n) subprojects related to highway rehabilitation should be evaluated and selected following a
methodology satisfactory to the Bank. Such subprojects should: (i) have an ERR calculated in accordance with
a method satisfactory to the Bank of at least 25% each, except for a portion of subprojects for which the
accumulated total investment does not exceed 10% of the budget for the year in which such subprojects are
being considered - subprojects in this category would require an ERR greater than 12% each; (ii) not require
changes in the road alignment or involve negative environmental implications for which ameliorative measures
have not been identified through a satisfactory enviro_nm     assessment; (iii) have a structural design life of
at least 15 years in the case of highway rehabilitation subprojects; and (iv) have a detailed economic analysis,
for those subprojects on which traffic may be influenced by the constuction of a toll road. Such economic
analysis should consider the toll roads and the proposed roads as one system; (o) the procurement arrangements;
(p) the armngements for project monitoring, scope and timing of the annual and mid-term reviews, and scope
and frequency of progress repors; (q) the accounts and auditing requirements; and (r) the disbursement
arrangements.
114.  It will be a condon of loan ejfecvenss that the Borrower and the Guarantor enter into contatual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the transfer of loan funds. Any substant  change in the int
organization of DGCCOP that materially and adversely afects its ability to carry out subprojects would be an
event of defal.
115.  E     n l aspects. The project is not expected to have a significant enviro=nental impact, and
has been assigned to Category C. Mme HRM program consists of works along existng facilities and no road
realigmnents are included. Earth works would be limited to occasional minor widening of road shoulders and
no displacement of people is involved. The project will improve highway maintnance, which in turn enhances
vehicle performan. Ihe traffic safety program would help improve road-user behavior, and reduce the
nmber and seriousness of accidents, with resuting social, economic, and enviromnental benefits. Furthermore,
SCr has reised its highway maienance work specifications to control pollution from construction equipment
and to improve quarry nmagement and, as part of project preparation, has established an Environmental Affairs
Unit.
116.  Beneft. The projec's main direct benefit would be to reduce road transport costs by protecting the
condition of the fideral highways and by reducing the rehabilitation backlog on the most trafficked highways.
Given that about 60% of the highway network is in poor condition, rendering road transport expensive, the
project would yield substantial rers (the ERR of most of the highway rehabilitation subprojects in the
program will be in excess of 25%). Indirect benefits, not easUy quantifiable, include improved highway safety



27
and better instiutional performance. The strengthening of DGCCOP would ensure better management of limited
public funds.
117.  Risks. The main risks are of inadequate budget allocations and/or of resource misallocations in futre
years. To mitigate these risks, satisfactory funding agreements for 1993 were obtained before appraisal. The
proposed annual reviews would give the Bank an opportunity to verify if the fimre annual budgets are within
the levels set forth in the highway maance program. The successful implementation of the highway
maintenance strategy, of the pavement and bridge management systems, and of the proposed annual review of
SCF's road investments would enable better-substantiated decisions, and SCr technical staff would have the
tools to argue their case with decision makers regarding budget allocations. In addition, the expected improved
macro-environment and fiscal situation would mitigate the above risks. There Is also a risk of delays and
changes in the institutional strengthening program in view of the change of administration in 1994 and the
inherent difficulties in getting an established institution such as SCI's Maintenance Directorate to adopt a
planning and strategic role and to delegate the operational work to SCI"s regional centers. To ensure
commitment to objectives and miimize these risks, project preparation was accomplished with active
participation of government officials and, to the extent possible, up-front actions.
118.  Recommendation. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement
Of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 18, 1993



28                                       Sebedule A
MEXCO                                      Page 1 of 1
Highway Rebabilitation and Trak  Safety Project
Project Cost Summary and Financing Plan
L l - Foreign    Total
PROJECT COST SUMMARY                                                   USS MUlions
Highway   ilitation,       fi    Snd Ma ace
1. Highway Rehabilitation                                      349.31    263.52    612.83
2. Pavement Resurfacing                                        175.67    132.53    308.20
3. Routine Maintenance                                         153.80     51.27    205.07
4. Bridge Rehabilitationt improvemenft                          47.29     35.68     82.97
S. Depots Rehbitationmiprovement                                 1.89      1.26      3.15
6. Miscellaneous                                                8.,76     6469     150.45
Subtotal Civil Works                       813.73    548.94    1362.67
7. Equipment Acquisition and Parts                               LE       2069       29.56
Subtotal Goods                                8.87    20.69      29.56
8. Supervision and Design Services                              26Q.      14.00      40.00
Subtotal Serices                            26.00      14.00     40.00
Traffic Safety
9. Improvement of Hazardous Road Locations                      8.28         2      13.80
Subtotal Civil Waoks                          8.28      5.52     13.80
10. Equipment for Licensing                                      0.48      1.13       1.61
11. Equipment for Vehicle Inspection                             0.48      1.13       1.61
12. Equipment for Preventive Medicine                            0.41      0.97       1.38
Subtotal Goods                                1.38      3.22      4.60
13. Vehicle Standards Study                                      0.08      0.04      0.12
14. Road Saety Seminar                                           0.01      0.11       0.12
15. Ifomation Campaigns                                          0.08      0.04       0.12
16. Road Safety Research                                      *      Q04              QiA
Subtotal Services                             0.24      0.23      0.48
hnstitonal Strengtheing
17. Office and Audiovisual Equipment                             0.05      0.07       0.12
18. Course Material Support                                      0.15      0.23       0.39
Subtotal Goods                                0.20      0.30      0.51
19. Instuctors Fee                                               1.08      0.58       1.67
20. Attendance at Outside Traing                                 0.12      0.50       0.62
21. Conltants for Sector Plang                                   j4 1.60              400
Subtotal Services                             3.61      2.68      6.28
Total Base Costs                                                86231    S95.58    1457.89
Prie Contingencies                                               60.40     41.71     102.11
Total Project Costs                                             922.71    637.29    1560.00
Local   Foreign    Total
FlNANCING PLAN                                                          uss Millions
Goverment of Mexco                                             922.71    157.17    1079.88
IBRD                                                             -       480.00     480.00
Bilatral Prgrams (Swede  UK, France)                             -         Q02        0
Total                                                          922.71    637.29    1560.00
* Due to the time-slice natre of the project physical continniaes are imbedded in the ba  cost estimates



29
ScheduEe B
mXCO                                         Page 1 of 3
}IGHWAY RE ILITATION AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
(In Mlllon of U.S. Dollas)
ICB        LCB      OTMER    N..F. Al    TOTAL
- Hi}ay Reabilitaton. Resurwing         151.42     489.54                 359.35      1000.31
and Hazatd= Loons Iproezn             (83.78)    (370.84)                           (354.62)
- Bridge Rehabilitation and Improvement            37.09       50.00       1.69        88.78
(20.52)    (27.66)                 (48.18)
- Maiten    Dpo Re hbitatio and                     3.37                               3.37
vemt                                              (1.87)                             (.8)
- Routine Maintnance                                                      219.43      219.43
-Mscelaneus                                                               160.99      160.99
Subtotal Civil Wodk             151.42     S30.00      50.00 hI    741.46     1472.88
(83.78)   (293.23)    (27.66)        -        (404.67)
- Hishway MEqupmet                      27.39       3.78       0.46                    31.63
j cq~zisitio and parts                (24.10)     (2.46)     (0.30)                  (26.86)
- Eaipmet for Licensing, Vebice          3.70       1.22                               4.92
pecdon and Preventive Medicin         (3.26)      (0.79)                             (4.0C)
Tining Eq       t Matials                                     0.54                    054
(O..0)                 (0.50
Subtotal Goods                  31.09       5.00        1.00 it/               37.09
2(7.36)    (3.25)     (0.80)                  (31.41)
- Consuants for Hgwas                                         47.08 sI                 47.08
(41.44)                (41.44)
- Sdaty Stuads, Campigs, Rsearch                               0.38        0.13        0.51
and Road Sdafty Semar                                        (0.33)                  (D.33)
- Iu ctrs Fee and Outside                                     2.44                    2.44
Taining                                                      (2-1$                    (2.1$)
Subtotl Services:                                           49.90       0.13        50.03
(43.92)                (43.9)
TOTAL              182.51      535.00     100.90      741.59      1560.00
______.__.___.__,___   (111A4)    (2.4)    (7238)          -         (480.00)
at  Not Dank financed.
hi  Local biddin by nvitation of at lend thre bider.
I  Icludes about US$3 million for coadmaing th, thnia asaistara4 sevie of the count fims
(single souce  ,lecton)..
N2     Figre in parentee ar amounts to b fimed by th proposd Loa.



30
Page 2 of 3                               MEXICO
HIGHWAY REHABLITATION AND TRAMC SAFETY PROJECT
Initial Allocation of Loan Procee
Amount of Loan    Prcntage of Expenditure
Categoy                  allocated (US$)        to be fnanced
1. Civil works for highway            330,000,000      - 61% until US$70,000,000
rehabilitation, pavement                             has been disbursed; then
resufcing and hazardous road
locations                                           - 58% until a cumulatve of
US$156,000,000 has been
disbursed; then
- 55% untl a cumulative of
US$236,000,000 has been
disbured; te
- 51% until a cumulative of
US$295,000,000 has been
disbursed; then
- 48% thlereafr.
2. Civil worIs for bridge and
maenane depots rebabilnl             47,000,000              55%
improvemet
3. Acqison of highway maintenance      25,000,000        100% of foreign exp.
equipment and spare parts                              100% of local exp.
(ex-factory cost)
65% local exp.
4. Goods & equipment for driver         3,800,000        100% of foregn exp.
licensing, vehicle inscion,                            65% local exp.
and preventive medicine
5. Training program, including goods     2,500,000             100% A/
and equipment, instructors, outside
visits
6. Consulig services                    39,000,000             100% A/
7. Unalocated                           32,700,000
,a/ Excluding taxs.



31
Prge 3 ef 3
Ebd~~~~~~~~~~t MON dD _egn
eK M1. of £U.S Dolimi)
Annu                              78 1/ 66    77    39    76    77    67
Cumulive                          78   144   221   260   336   413   480
Jz/ A special account would be opened in the Cetal Bank, with an inidal deposit of up to US$25 million
equivalent Retroacive fw idna   up to US$30 miion equivalent is proposed for epeditre
incured after Novemer 1, 1992.



32
C ~      ~ ~ ~                   C
sdwue 1 f 
B ~ ~ AN  RACSACORIC
bTable of Ngec r             E     wU
(a) Time taken o pprepae:                Two years
(b) Prepared by:                         Secetariat for Communications and Transport (SCI)
(c) First Bank mission:                  April 1991
(d) Appraisa mission departure:          Fruary 1993
(e) Negotiations:                        April 1993
(f) Planed dae of efectivenes:           Augu. 1993
O  Lit of relevant PCR's and PPAR's:     Mexico -  lTird Highway Project -
PCR No. 0832
PPAR No. 0832, August 1975
Mico -  Pourth Highway Project -
PCR No. 2575
PPAR No. 2575, June 1979
Mexico -  Sventh Highway Project -
PCR No. 5162, June 1984
Mexico - Highway Sector Project -
PCR No. 6896
PPAR No. 6896, July 1987
Mexico -  Chiapas Rural Roads -
PCR No. 9406, March 1991



I~~~~~~~~~~I
os~~ n                     a'lii  jsisssssssslssss §    us1I
ISiiSlS I S1!     iSSXiSSSSSiSSiSSS5SSS IS          a 



34
MEXICO
. STATEMENT OF FCOIVESTMENTS
As of Much 31. 1t93
Yvso                       Oblig_r                      Type of usWe*               Loan      Equ          ot
1950159     lnduatesl Perft Circle. SA. aI      ladusalEqupmvent                    080        0.00       as
19sg        bdstol de Me3ico. SA. Al             Aioaft Engine Oveha                0,62       0OO        0.2
1661        Acerto Solar. S.A. at                Twit Onus                          0.00       0.00       0.00
16631g8/   Fundidrem Monteey. S.A. ao            Steel                              3.30      21.44      23.74
1983        Tubos de Aceo de Mexio               Staible Sted Pipes                 0.71       0.10       0.61
1963        Quinilca del Ry. S.A. at             Sedlr Sulphate                     0.07       0.00       0.07
s41"6       Industla del Hian, S. A.    *        Ce      n EquIpment                0.00       1.98       1.06
19t0        Mner del Nort  al                    Irn Ove                            0.75       0OO        0.7S
1971        Colonam  Mexdcne.. S.A. of           Tautt..                            6.00       0.00       6.00
1972        Promotr PaPd PldO . SACV al          PUIP avd Paper bI                  0.00       0.00       0.00
1973/79     Cements Vreacrtr. BA. at             Ceme                              11.36       0.00      11.35
1974/81     Cancm  Autd Hoel /                   T bom                              1.00       0.30       1.30
1975w79     Mex1nx. S. A. af                     Stanles Steel                     1200       13.16      15.18
1978/81/84   Papels Pnderoa S.A. of              Pulp ad Ppr                        6.18       8.00      11.10
17r1978     Tesftalto Mextcaos. S.A. af          Pbroehemab                         19.00       0.00      19.00
1976/81/87  Hotd Camino Real M   a. $A           Toudsm                             0.00       4.20       4.20
1979/84     Empras Tolsoa. S.A.   a/             Cment                             30.00       7.96      37.95
1979        Conduan Mon,tee. $A.                 Ebleial Wir & Cabl                  .41       0.00       8.41
1680        Industis ReslatL S.A. a/             Partice Boasd                      8.00       0.00       6.00
1960        Viddo Pano de Mexico. S.A.           Flat Glas                         15.00       0.00      15.OO
1980        Mnera Real de Anoes. S.A. at         Ming                              30.00       QOO      30.00
1961        Cfpotcn AetAdutrl S.A                AgrIbusines                        6.30       3.00       9.30
19S1/6S     Ceuloslos Centauro. S.A. at          Pulp nd Pap                       15.50       0.00      15.50
1984        CapItlW Goods FPty at                Capltd Goods FInanci              34.00       0.00      34.00
1964/68     Metalsa, S. A.                       Auto Chassis                      a6o         1.40       9.40
l965        Protelson. S.A. de C.V.  at          AgrIusiess                         2.00       0.77       2.77
l965        Promoclane Ind. Mexisna. BA.         Petrochemicals                    32.00       0.00      32.00
19860168    Ceulesa y Pal de Ouwo. SA de CV      Pulp nd Pae                       1.O         3.07      13.07
i967        Agroax Phas I (AESAI a               Vog. and Fruit Ptcesng             1.50       0.60       2.00
1989        Cleasa Contr. Gusw. Fa.  at          Censtr. Guaante Falty             20.00       0.00      2.00
1987       industi SultaenX SJ de C.V.           Cheni    & Petochemial             too        Q6         2.50
1968        asled Powwade Maid.                  AutoAssmbly                        9.00       0:O        6.00
198a        Crosnt Market Aggeates               CMts 7_3.00                                   0OO       73.00
168 3   Apaso. S.A. de CV.                       Cement & Conat Materals           46.00       0.00      40.00
168e        Apaeso. SA. de CV. at                Cemen a COWt Mateabb              4.00        0.00      45LO0
lose        Slgen  Alimnto. S.A. de C.V. OSdun   Food ad Food Pmosessn             20.9B       2.00      22.90
1680912     PoearfA bB. A.S. de CV.             PItrals                           116.10       0.00      19.10
166989       GainswNs,                           Cons    Goods Cotiglemr et        80.00      27.60     107.60
16989       Ban" Settl                           oevlpmnwt Finer                   60.0        0.00      00.00
t9es        Cemenft. Mexian.,                    Cement & Count. Materials         6000        0.00      60.00
1990191     Condumex. BA te C.V.                 E    h at_                        3OO         9.54      44.U
19SO        ndelpre. SA. de CV.                  PeClie                            27.00       0.00      27.00
19'90       O4nCe Nolonal do Mxico               Devo_pmn Finac                    6LOO        0.00      60.00
1990       eBncomer Credit Uln                   DaOupsonWt Fineie                 20.00       0.00      20.00
1991        Mexico Fund     t                    Money & Capial MYarIet             0.00       0.00       0.00
1951        Petrocal. A.                         Chemiask & PesochsAcjC            32.00       0.00      32.00
1991        Vitro Fkctedo                        Glas A Related MAnufac.           25.00       0.00      26.00
1991        Vto. S A.                            Glees & Relaftd Manu.              0.00      10.17      1.17
1992        Ckularwde Tolfoien S.A. de CV.       Ter   '                            5LO        1.00      1to*
1992        OnupO industrial 81mbo, $A de CV     BaNY                              25.00       0.00      25.00
1992        Aisantes Leon S.A. d CV.             BaterY MsfauMrng                  10.00       7.03      17.03
1992193     GrUPe Posed                         YoudUm                             20.00       0.00      20.00
1992        Gruponanalr   Prbure                 Devlepment Fines                   e00        7.50       ?.50
1992        Baco Marnti de Nam, S .NC.           Devebpntm Plsc                    2C.00       0.00      20.00
1992        Tekce Tell Rood                      TPort &Stge                       13          0.00      13.75
1993       Indelpro. S.A. de CV.  fU             P    __ro sa                       4.00       0.00       4.00
1993        GIdesm                fttgochemkel                                     16.00       to0       2S.00
1993        Teeoom Golf.  V                              u                          8.30       0.74       .04
1993        Marbtime.  f                         infasoture                         4.00       2.00       6.00
TOtl Undabured Includi ParIle}l                                        26.6T       0.90      40.36
ot bvesment whih hav been fu  ocell      _ tnated.4 witten offo. eKdmed orpMd"
at hkEs placem_nts of US$30.0 mUPic    O),pasel. US$20.0 mUfn (VItrOl. nd w UBl.8 nIaen (ConduDe,.
dt Consists of avoroved and signed po roJects end sendin_ eammllrebts (Including tmdsrwtitlng. 5.b sxcudiru s-- -transaotons
Lo.. Bane Serfln US$6.5 mh.. inIelprUUSOo4. Seae US$4. nn, and Gupo PosdeU 11518.5 mIllIon)
./ Hel Comimet const of disbure a nd undlasss ne tens br_,
U Pending C'ommit s                                                                         de S A2C'
FCA0l30,dx
AprIl30. 1993



35
I Aun  Tables and Figur  for
Part 1
Country Polcis and Bank Group Astam Strate



36
.     .   .        .        ..
:~~~
V...'..
nd,.        t*Stf5wd0ii*y f oiu                                                                    5j'       V
..... X.  M I
. ..... ..  ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~''
N:                 V.~~~~~~~~~xOM



37
Am= 2
PUBLIC EXPENDI1TURE
(1991)
Category                                                   Percentage
Rural Development                                               7.6%
Fisheries                                                      0.4%
Education                                                      4.6%
Health and Labor                                                5.9%
Solidarity Program / Regional Development                      10.3%
Urban Development and Environment                              13.9%
Communications and Transport                                   10.9%
Commerce and Goods Distribution                                 1.2%
Tourism                                                         0.5%
Industrial Sector                                               2.6%
Energy (non-petroleum)                                         18.3%
PEMEX                                                          19.3%
Administration                                                  4.5%
Total                                                         100.0%
Source: Cuarto Informs do Goblemno.



38
Amnex 3
Recet Projec Ledins: Specal Amea  of Emphasis
PoverY     Environ-     Pei        Community   sttond         Wome in
moet       Sctor        aipa-       Dvelop-    Develop.
Develow-    tion and       mnt           mo
meat        NGOs
EM
Plmay Eduon                                                                  / 
IrigWao & Dna/                         /                                     /
Sector
Ewvionment & Naral                     J                                      /
ReOes
Agicultrual Technology                                                                    l /  e of
Scienc & Techoogy                                                             O f
Hosigart                   of                      of                         o f
Development
duaoa                                                                /            /
LAborMa"                   o                          
Tralnspr Mr Polutdon                    fo
MmCW Tan"                              /           / 
Higway Rehailiatooff
and
Mainftmena
. indiat that prjct coae a componnt whc address.d  sttd special    of emphais
oject plann  fo FY93.



39
Aniex 4
MEXICO
BALANCE OF BANK LOANS LUSMI WLON)
AS OF MARCH 31. 1993
PRtJRCTAM                  _      0                               CiUILA        CV To    Pf        r _UUM
LOAN O. AMOUNtIl       SAAC          TomA        SATE    NmO          RAIIt
96 tun My Odbw#W                           11.938.*                                 O t.   9.60
Lamm Cadsg  bAidau Pat          2450           35            3.76        35.47      @24       0.23             2
Chf"AOwke0e.                     20ME          56.00         0.12        450                  0.74             2
.m1Us Mating U                   5"Ad         105.00         02         104.72      0.        0.00             1
RPway V                         355704        300.00         5.61       204.        3S        0.06             2
Plo"ithi                        2604.          6630         46. 6        41.15      3.60      3.               2
Muipd S       _mqti*m           2066E          40.00        17.90        22.10      1.6*      O49              2
Soid W"etePht                   23664          35.00        11J          1.15       14        0.10             2
TNo* DeOle_me                   274741         46.00         7.2         40.15      0.40      0.40             2
Sop. DeVeopmnt I                277w          250.00         573        24.27       1.51      .53              2
lsbee Tguept                    202441         60.06        32.00        50.2       0.00      0.0              2
Pm,h  aftuse bE4v               231           100.00        21.13        707        0.47      04               2
Arulultwa Extem                 26541          30.00         223         17.77      0.44      0.00             2
HiWaft    Mdntutae              20754         135.00         0          136.4       3.30      04               2
MuAW Tr,din,                    2676415        60.00        a06          ".40      O05        0.00             1
Sel Sbta Remuew6v               210415        321.01        71.66       240.13      267       0.00             2
FWsor  oe                       2W16.         246.00         2.1        243.61      0.00      0.00             I
PuW_ fhdWtsgo                   36413          50.00         4.02        46.0       1         0.00             2
biust  RtUUot__                304A          20.OO         44.6        205.0       0.22   Q 22                3
Hvdm*cmo DslPWmt                306311        440.00       144.6        315.0       0.14      0.00             I
ftmadi SotaM A*AV8              306541        487.14         13         46.L7    -  0.26      020              I
forestaowh                      311541         450          360           05        0.00      .OO              3
S_ou  Low boom N- sia           3140A         35.00        110.         2310       21.3?     11.70             2
8     _eoonAL Mubothhg          314141        100            o0          6044       0.05      0.0              a
Truualoon & lobbuulm            318611        480.00       U1.          3074       1454       .1               1
TWem. Took Aedhto.              32064E         2L200        1"            0L11      0.33      0.00             2
WSW orpel & SOlW*               3271.1        30000         6.47        214.3      20.3       3.56             3
BooHMelh CEO                    327s           10.00       1S6.4         1.16       6.04      1.60             2
DootoL & RWs  Omv.              3310W         350.00       201.70       146.30     16S.      10.70             2
AgWddseow*l 44          A       335           400.00       200.00       200.00      0.00      0.00             3
Tl*d Teotde Tfalt               33O           15.OO         110.34       32.        7.12      3.6              1
Nin Seet Rssuet                 3356-W        2000         120           70.05      0.00      0OO              2
Putvny du lcu                   340741        20.00        211.3         30.6      1.4       16.               I
Irunlga &ot*o  Sector           3416W         400.00       270.3        125.30     153        644              2
E awio                          3401W          50.00        5O.           0.00      0.00      0OO              2
AuIaixl Todmos                  3405.         150.O        143.00         7.00      0.o       0.00 
Sden  & Teulq 6*&               3475          I6l.OO       174.00        15.00      0.00      0.00             2
Heig Mwkel Dolonaut             34O7_4        460.00       3.0          116.60     00.63     26.90             1
bi Eda     2                    35161          6oo0.00      60.00         000       0.00      0O.              R
l*uMUiCS& lbaPd4L  W3542W                     174.OO       161.66        12.02     1202      12.02             1
T.t  Air Pel. Cm"d V            3543t         20.00         20            0.00      0.00      0O0             NA
Mdium Cits Tr_  21              356WZ         2Q0.00       200.0          0.00      0.00      0.00            NM
193.113 44"10    1 03    254.03    111.90                  Ae. 0
11 Net d eo
21 Net et offle.
Signfianueo of Ru1hgs:       I -No Sif rmnt Problm
2 - Modtae Probems
3 - M4or Probim
4 - Mes Prblm  net Adequatlv Addreed
NR - Prewtnot rated



40
Annex 
(Pretag  DiStRibtion)
)~~~~
PerCent of Total _endn                           E M          0 -11s W ;
A4Juot Lwdivg
bIdu*ytrxad.                                          21
Ednf w_turo.                                           4
Publio E1 3n   Refom                                  6
Agriulftur                                             S   - 
larat Support                                         14
Total Ad. Leda       ,_                       53-
lvnesatt Lning
Rvlil of Gwwh                                              34             64             29
bfrautr                                               20            43             16
Asiultr*                                               2            21             13
Idntry  d TMd"                                        12
Poverty & RUaN RuomfOss                                    10             26             34
3            26             16
:Rb/Nutritla                                           2                           10
Poverty                                                4                            8
Enviroummat                                                 3             10             37
Totl l  veutmoT LIng                          47            100            100
TotalLfing                                                  100            100            100
Annh l Aveag.  SSmu )                                      2,187         1,322          1,433



41
Ann= 6
Mmm:eW cgmmiw=u biSo EX
(US$ Miion)
1ad~~~utiyfl~~~ad.                  500S       1,80          25
laftastxuotui.                              ~~~~~~~380
PUbli EutupinRofom                                           so0
500loultm   J300        400
lnkAgguciur.                       286        1,037        1,767       I,15            60
Agdeulww                  908~~~~"     799          146        550             550
Jnduatcyffrads           ~~757         738          615        475
Am"~ty &NHunt.. Renwuma                  90           81           to       I,575          1.50
90          $1           80         845            700
Id Ft uulaoa458
126~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30
Iavlroameat                  ~~~~~100       25           20        570           1,600
Total Ivatnunt Leading         2,122        2.680        2,62       4,100          4IM0
Tbtal                            7,122        3,180        6,868       4,525          4,30
Dfabwaeawnt .atIoV                                      J .                      .24
iko. oOpeaiIous                             14           19           21          is             1s
1V Leadin pln depedent an wvalaMfty of qualty props. and projeta.
21 RaI of 4Xmaaaua duusnaat h  wgcs  am  f ahuo  aaosa bhgnlg
acy,(n  fauastoemin)  zlds19  lbmaaa



42
Page I of 3
F%ure 1                                               FIgure 2
Fm  Budgt Ddit to Suriplio
o120                                   A                 so
40I
20
70      74      78      81      8       90 92   -_,
Yepr                                80 81 82 83 84 8 88 87 88990 01 92
S&w  hBkatimm         S    ma  p* dal of      ee     m  n: hak atdeL            d * to t1e piua &ml bo
Fge 3                                                 Uure4
On..  Aouat Ddt aa P,unte *1               Lp
20                                                      a
18                                                      7
148
2                                                                                      -            -
0                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~1087  1o88  1989  1990  1991  1992
1989       1910        1191        19022



43
Page 2 of 3
Figte Sma  mmtD                          t
20                                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~AO
10
is.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
e*1.20
10.~
25                    . _lj
tutl. D            .
I DY                Is
j-12s            9p-2                                7      0a  UUUU960  t099  10
Ffgum 7                                remes :59   aIJ,
0  II  3  6  0  12  3  6  9  1                        Yew~~1
--~~~~~~~~~~ lm                                        190      XM       =
1980        1,91            I,,!      A03   Ike~i~b98 02         O    ket         a
flmkU?  ub-nutu                                     -                         b.



44
Annx 7
Page 3 of 3
-~gur.9                                        W. 10
C)Dom IUB of Uitmal Deb smea,k                 RMin 0qm  ua  01
*                                                        g
70
~~~30hvfu~~~~~~~~~~~3
230                                            0to
it                                               0                  e
,UeI RtobaLam.a  0                                     88I86 Nob 353  et 889aO91sta ,,,



45
Annex 8
Annual Creditworthne Indicators
_______ ______ _______ ______ 1991  1992      1993    1994     1995     2000)
DOD/GDP                             36.0     33.2      33.3    35.3    38.2      34.2
DOD/Exports GNPS                   2S4.3    245.5    239.5    227.3   206.6    140.3
Total Debt Seicexorts GNS           35.1     35.5      32.4    29.2    26.2      20.5
Total l_ tGDP                        2.8      2.1      2.2      2.5      2.8      2.6
Conty E     /D  Total
Otsftan Portfolio                   12.5     12 1      12.2     11.8    11.1      7.8
IBRD/Countiy Public Debt            16.1      ' .2     17.2     16.7    15.7     13.6
IBRD/Country Public Sevico          21.5     20.4      19.4     19.7    21.S     20.2
TRtD Debt ServceExorts GNMS          4.5      4.4      4.0      3.7      3.7      2.4
Prdefrd Creditor/Public Debt Service  47.1   37.4      37.2    36.5    36.1      32.1
Source: Bank of Mexico; Wodd Bank estmes.



IIBRD 23709
A4i;alKh
UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA
Nagain,            _j~        
t  (  W  - , X    t    sJ  i E                                                          <zS   ~~~~~~~~~~~                            ~~~M E X IC 0 
uAJ       NN             -_2'%
) n ~ G ,.                                   /                                                                               f o F M e s--- P.o
b__t   vH~ } LI A;lr NN Li                                                                              1 A
O~~ ~ $n ONO ;41                                                                                                                                                                  b
BAJA                                                                                                                                0  N     c t w fiw  ns
CALIFORNIA                                                                                                                    -          Dkled highways
-Roilr*ad.
j                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Riven
Lo.                              V  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rncipal airports
--Stot. bcndarie.
lnomtionalw bowwldr;e,
CAS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIAT    .d 
-20                                                                                                                                                                        P.,  i-"0.
B'IT  'f  co~rperhe                CWJNTANA
ROO
zi usten~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lewa
(titus 0   No  30   NO  0         300                                                                                                               U2A
ONDURAS
too.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY,W



