Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11720-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
lMICO
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
MAY 18, 1993
Country Department II
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =  Peso (Mex$)
US$1.00    =  Mex$3,095 (February 23, 1993)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                            British/US Equivalent
1 kilometer (kin)      =          0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)             =         3.28 feet (ft)
1 gram (g)                         0.0022 pound Ob)
1 kilogram (kg)         =         2.20 pounds ab)
1 ton                   =         2,205 pounds
1 liter (lt)            =         33.28 fluid once (fl. oz)
ABBREVIATIONS
AADT         Annual Average Daily Traffic
BANOBRAS  National Bank for Public Works and Services (Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Piblicos)
CAPUFE       Federal Road and Bridge Toll Authority (Caminos y Puentes Federales de
Ingresos y Servicios Conexos)
CGP          General Coordination for Planning (Coordinaci6n General de Planeaci6n)
CVSA         North-American Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance
DGCCOP       General Directorate for Maintenance of Public Works (Direcci6n General de
Construcci6n y Conservaci6n de Obras Ptblicas) of SCT
DGCF         General Directorate for Federal Highways (Direccion General de Carreteras
Federales) of SCT
DGCS         General Directorate for Training (Direcci6n General de Capacitaci6n Sectorial)
of SCT
DGMPI        General Directorate for Preventive Medicine in Transportation
(Direcci6n General de Medicina Preventiva en el Transporte) of SCT
DGP          General Directorate for Planning (Direcci6n General de Planeaci6n) of SCT
DGTT         General Directorate for Land Transport (Direcci6n General de Transporte
Terrestre) of SCT
DPE          Directorate for Programming and Evaluation (Direcci6n de Prograrnaci6n y
Evaluaci6n) of DGCCOP
EEC          European Economic Commission
ERR          Economic Rate of Return
FHN          Federal Highway Network
FNM          Mexican Railways (Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
HDM          Highway Design Model
BRRM         Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDB          Interamerican Development Bank
IEPS         Special Tax on Production and Services (Impuesto Especial sobre Producci6n y
Servicios)
IMT          Mexican Transport Institute (Instituto Mexicano de Transporte)
INEGI        National Institute of Statistics, Geography and Information (Instituto Nacional
de Estadfsticas, Geograffa e Informaci6n)
ISAN         Tax on New Vehicles (Impuesto sobre Automoviles Nuevos)
ISR          Income Tax (Impuesto sobre la Renta)
IVA          Value Added Tax (Impuesto sobre Valor Agregado)
KPH          Kilometers per hour (Kil6metros por horas)
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
NAFTA        North American Free Trade Agreement
NBF          Not Bank Financed
NDP          National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo)
PFCP         Federal Highway and Port Patrol (Policfa Federal de Caminos y Puertos)
PM           Mexican Ports Authority (Puertos Mexicanos)
SAHOP        Secretariat for Human Settlements and Public Works (Secretarfa de
Asentamientos Humanos y Obras Piblicas)
SCT          Secretariat for Communications and Transport (Secretarfa de Comunicaciones y
Transportes)
SECOGEF    General Secretariat of the Comptroller of the Federation (Secretarfa de
la Contralorfa General de la Federaci6n)
SEDESOL    Secretariat for Social Development (Secretarfa de Desarrollo Social)
SEDUE        Secretariat for Urban Development and Ecology (Secretarfa de Desarrollo
Urbano y Ecologfa)
SHCP         Secretariat for Finance and Public Credit (Secretarfa de Hacienda y
Credito Piblico)
SICC         Highway Maintenance Management System
SIMAP        Mexican Model for Highway Project Analyses
SIPUMEX    Mexican Model for Bridge Management System
SISTER       Simulation Model of Highway Maintenance Strategies (Simulation de Strategies
d'Entretien Routier)
SPP          Secretariat for Programming and Budgeting (Secretarfa de Programaci6n y
Presupuesto)
VOC          Vehicle Operating Costs
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






MEXICO
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND TRAMIC SAFETY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CONTENTS
rae No.
ABBREVIATIONS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMIARY                       ........................................   i
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR                    .........................................    1
A.   Restructuring the Mexican Economy and the
Transport Sector              .....................................    I
B.   Institutional Framework and Sectoral Planning  .....................  3
iI. BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED  .......................... .                              4
A.   Main Issues and Lessons in the Highway Sector  ...................   4
B.   Rationale for Bank Involvement  ..............................  8
m. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR                       .............................                           8
A.   Sector Issues  ..........................................  8
B.   The Highway Network ...................................   13
C.   Administration of the Primary Highway Network  ..................  15
D.   Condition and Performance of Federal Highways ...................   17
E.   Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance of Federal Highways ...             .....  18
F.   Highway Finance  ......................................  22
IV. THE PROJECT  .             ................................................   24
A.   Project Origin  ........................................  24
B.   Project Objectives ......................................  24
C.   Project Description  .....................................   25
Institutional Strengthening Component  ........................  25
Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance Program   ....            ....  29
Traffic Safety Component....  ; ......                                              32
D.   Project Cost and Financing  .....................   32
The report is based on the findings of a World Bank appraisal mission which visited Mexico from Fbnaaoy
2 to 23, 1993. The mission was composed of Mr. Enrique PiniUa (Tsk ManW), Me. Eqaeuza Ordlan
(LA21E); Mrs. Katherine Sierra, (LACVP); Mr. Ferene Molnar (LEGIA); and Meours. Hey Stinr and
Manuel GarcIa (Consultants). Mrs. Alba M. Renero assisted in the production of the report. Mr. Edilberto
Segura is the Country Department Director, and Mr. Ricardo Halperin is the responsible Division Chief.
Messrs. William Matthey (LA41E) and Enn Vasur (EC2IN) acted as peer reviewers.



PafNo.
V. PROJECr EXECMtION ..........................................    34
A.  Subproject Selection, Preparation,and Evaluation .34
B.   Conditions and Procedures for Procurement of Subprojects .36
C. Implementation and Monitoring .37
D. Accounts and Audits .40
E. Disbursements .40
F. Economic Justification .40
Highway Rehabilitation and Resurfacing .42
Bridge Rehabilitation and Improvement .42
Hazardous Road Locations Improvement .43
G. Project Environmental Aspects .43
H. Project Risks .43
VI. AGREEMENTS REACBED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ......                    ...............  44
A.  Agreements Reached During Negotiations ......           .................  44
B.   Condition for Loan Effectiveness .........       ....................  46
C. Events of Default ....................................... 46
D.  Recommendations ......................................  46
CHARTS
Chart 1-1:    Organization of the Secretariat for Communications and Transport . . 47
Chart 1-2:    Organization of SCT's General Coordination of Planning .48
Chart 3-1:  Highway Maintenance Organization .49
TABLES
Table 3-1:   Indicators of Highway Demand, 1970-1990 .14
Table 3-2: Classification of Highways .15
Table 3-3:   Federal Highway Network Design Criteria and Standards .16
Table 3-4:   Federal Highways Pavement Condition Inventory, 1991 (km) .18
Table 3-5:   Condition of Priority Bridges, 1992 .19
Table 3-6:   SCT's Highway Maintenance Staffing Pattern, 1986-1991 .20
Table 3-7:   National Highway Program 1989-1994 .23
Table 4-1:   Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program 1993-1996 .31
Table 4-2:   Project Component and Estimated Costs (Tentative) .33



hae No.
Table 4-3    Summary of Project Cost and Financing Plan .....    .......... 34
Table 5-1:   Procurement Arrangements  ........       .................   38
Table 5-2:  Initial Allocation of Loan Proceeds ......   ...............   41
FIGURES
Figure 2-1:   Price Escalation of Civil Works, Consumer Price Index, (INPC)
Exchange Rate and Minimum Salary (1980-1990) ....    ...... 5
Figure 3-1:   Development of the Road Network ......      ..............   13
Figure 3-2:   Federal Highway Expenditures 1983-1991 (Billion Mexican
Pesos of 1990) ...............................  18
Figure 3-3:   Assessment of DGCCOP's Capabilities ......      ............ 21
Figure 3-4:   Evaluation of Federal Highway System Investment ....  ....... 22
Figure 4-1:    Comparison of Strategy Results (1993-2007) ........ .......  30
ANNEXES
Annex A:    Bank Experience and Lessons Learned .......      ............  50
Annex B:    Training Program ..............................   55
Annex C:    Highway Maintenance Account Balance and
Road User Charges ...............    64
Annex D:    Road Traffic Safety ...............   70
Annex E:    Institutional Modernization of SCT's Highway
Maintenance Directorate ........................   89
Annex F:    Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program  ....     ....... 94
Annex G:    Highway Maintenance Policy Statement and Action Plans ......  106
Annex H:    Technical Assistance and Consulting Services ....    .........  115
Annex I:      Schedule of Estimated Disbursements  ..................  117
Annex J:      Selected Documents Available in the Project File .... .......  118
HAP: IBRD 23709






MEXICO
EI[GHWAY REHABILIIATION AND TRAFFC SAFErY PtROIECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowver:      Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Pdblicos, S.N.C.
(BANOBRAS)
Guarantor:      United Mexican States
EXcecutId=      Secretarfa de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCI), and
Agendes and    the users of the federal highway system.
Benefidaries:
Beneficiary:    Secretarfa de Comunicaciones y Transportes (SCI)
Amount:         US$480 million equivalent.
Tenns:          Repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at the Bank's
standard variable rate.
Onlending       Loan proceeds to be relent to Government (for SCI) on the same terms and
Tem:            conditions as the Bank loan, with the Government bearing the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks.
roject          The project aims to: (a) protect and enhance past investments in the federal
Objectives:     highway network through investments in rehabilitation and resurfacing of
paved highways; (b) improve highway rehabilitation, resurfacing and
maintenance (HRRM) planning by strengthening the institutional capacity of
SCT's highway maintenance directorate, DGCCOP; (c) support measures to
improve funding for HRRM; (d) reduce transport costs through improvements
in traffic safety and more efficient traffic flow on the federal highways; and
(e) support further policy improvements through (i) studies on road financing,
(ii) development and implementation of a computerized data base for the
transport sector, (iii) preparation of project planning and evaluation manuals,
and (iv) improved consideration of environmental factors in highway
maintenance.
Project         The project objectives would be achieved through the implementation of:
Descril on:     (a) an institutional strengthening component for improving transport sector
planning and policies (US$7.27 million); (b) a comprehensive, four year
HRRM program for the federal highway system (US$1,532.48 million); and
(c) a road traffic safety program (US$20.25 million). The  itutional
s hen   component would include specific measures and actions to
improve: (a) sector planning and coordination, especially for HRRM; (O)
HRRM funding and budget preparation; (c) sustainability through development
of a coherent framework for road sector financing; (d) control of truck



ii
overloading through the issuance of revised vehicle weight and size regulations
and a program for their implementation; (e) specifications for HRRM works,
to include quarry management and pollution control of construction equipment;
(f) the system for truck driver education, testing and licensing; and (g) training
of sector staff. The four-year federal HRRM program would include about
27,000 km of highway rehabilitation and resurfacing, improvement and
rehabilitation of bridges and depots maintenance, replacement/rehabilitation of
equipment, and consultancy services. The road traffic safety program would
include improvement of some 350 hazardous road locations. This program
would also finance the purchase of equipment for the new licensing and
vehicle inspection system and for the preventive medical unit, road safety
studies and information campaigns, a vehicle standards study and an
international traffic safety seminar.
Benefits:        The project's main direct benefits would be to reduce road transport costs by
protecting the condition of the federal highways and by reducing the
rehabilitation backlog on the most trafficked highways. Given that about 60%
of the highway network is in poor condition, rendering road transport
expensive, the project would yield substantial returns (the ERR of most
highway rehabilitation subprojects will be in excess of 25%). Indirect
benefits, not easily quantifiable, include improved highway safety and better
institutional performance. The strengthening of DGCCOP would ensure better
management of limited public funds. Although the project is not a poverty-
focused operation, its benefits would accrue to the whole population.
Risl&:           The main risks are of inadequate budget allocations and/or of resource
misallocations in future years. To mitigate these risks, satisfactory funding
agreements for 1993 were sought before appraisal. The proposed annual
reviews would give the Bank an opportunity to verify if the future annual
budgets are within the levels set forth in the highway maintenance strategy.
The successful implementation of the highway maintenance strategy, of the
pavement and bridge management systems, and of the proposed annual review
of SCT's road investments would enable better-substantiated decisions, and
SCT technical staff would have the tools to argue their case with decision
makers regarding budget allocations. In addition, the expected improved
macro-environment and fiscal situation would mitigate the above risks. There
is also a risk of delays and changes in the institutional strengthening program
in view of the change of administration in late 1994 and the inherent
difticulties in getting an established institution such as SCT's Maintenance
Directorate to adopt a planning and strategic role and to delegate the
operational work to SCT's regional centers.  To ensure commitment to
objectives and minimize these risks, project preparation was accomplished with
active participation of government officials and, to the extent possible, up-front
actions.



iii
Project Cost Summary:                                LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
(In Million of U.S. Dollars)
Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance   848.60  583.62   1432.22
Traffic Safety                                     9.90       8.98       18.88
Institutional Strengthening                        3.81       2.98       6.79
Total Base Costs                       862.31     595.58     1457.89
Price Contingencies                   60.40     41.41      102.11
Total Project Costs 1/                 922.71     637.29    1560.00
Financing Plan:                                     LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL
(In Million of U.S. Dollars)
Government of Mexico                             922.71     157.17     1079.88
IBRD     -                                         -        480.00     480.00
Bilateral programs (Sweden, U.K. and France)        .         0.12       0.12
Total                                      922.71     637.29    1560.00
Estimated Bank Disbursemnent
Bank FY                              1994 19         19   1997  19   1999  2
(In Million of U.S. Dollars)
Annual                            78 W/ 66    77    39    76   77    67
Cumulative                        78    144   221   260   336  413   480
a/ A special account would be opened in the Central Bank, with an initial deposit of up to US$25
million equivalent. Retroactive financing of up to US$30 million equivalent is proposed for
expenditures incurred after November 1, 1992.
Economic Rate of Return:
The ERR of most of the highway rehabilitation works, the main project component will
be in excess of 25 %, except for a number of subprojects for which the accumulated total
investment does not exceed 10% of the budget for the year in which such subprojects are
being considered; such portion of subprojects would require an ERR of at least 12% each.
1/    Physical contingencies of about 15% are included in the base cost. Identifiable taxes and duties are
about US$127.42 million and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$1,432.58 million equivalent.






MEXICO
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Restructuring the Mexican Economy and the Transport Sector
1.1   In the past few years, the Mexican economy has shifted from a protectionist pattern to
greater reliance on market forces and on the private sector as the prime engine of growth. Fiscal
and monetary stabilization, elimination or substantial reduction of trade barriers (often to levels
below those required under GATT), privatization of many public enterprises, and the possibilty of
a successful conclusion of a free trade agreement with the United States and Canada (NAFTA)
have led to a sharp improvement in investor confidence. Long-term capital inflows, including
capital repatriation, rose sharply to over US$20 billion on average in 1991-92, after being negative
(on average) between 1985 and 1988. These remarkable achievements provide a good reason to
expect that Mexico has set the basis for sustained economic growth.
1.2    Mexico's economy is much healthier today than it was in 1987, but the Government
continues to be committed to fiscal restraint. As a result, the Government has curtailed public
investment in infrastructure. However, it is encouraging private investment. Private sector
participation in infrastructure development has ranged from asset sales to term concessions, with
or without operational involvement.
1.3   Signs of a sustained recovery have appeared only since 1991. Between 1980 and 1990,
the Mexican economy grew very little. Average annual GDP growth during the decade was 1.6%.
By 1988, GDP was only 9% higher than in 1980. Slow growth occurred also in the transport
sector, not surprisingly, since transport services are a derived demand. From 1980 to 1988,
transport sector output grew only 4%. The greatest contribution to this growth came from road
passenger transport, which increased by 22% between 1980 and 1989.
1.4    Although slow economic growth has had a major effect on the transport sector, the
following policy developments have affected it even more: (a) deregulation of road transport;
(b) privatization of toll road construction; (c) a new strategy for port development; and (d) a
program to restructure the railway.  The transport sector has been affected indirectly by
restructuring of the industrial sector; positively, through the growth of non-traditional exports, and
negatively through the contraction of some heavy industries such as steel. These developments
have had different effects on the various transport modes, as analyzed below. The dynamics of
the sector would be further affected if NAFTA is ratified. Under NAFTA the spatial development
of industry is expected to extend away from the U.S. border, thus enhancing the need for efficient
transport.
1.5   The Secretariat for Communications and Transport (SCT) is the main Government actor
in the transport sector. Between 1982 and 1990, its investment in the sector declined at an average
annual rate of 7.6%. By 1990, SCT's investments were only 53% of their 1982 level, expressed
in constant pesos of 1989. All modes except aviation were affected. Investments in port facilities
fell drastically due to termination of the Industrial Ports Program. Highway and railroad
investments declined steadily, but highway investments continued to receive the largest share of
funding. Although past overinvestment coupled with slow economic growth provided a temporary
respite, reduced expenditures resulted in deterioration of capital stock. To increase the supply of
funds for its investment program, SCT started in 1989 to grant concessions to the private sector



2
to build and operate the sector infrastructure, particularly highways (paras. 1.10 and 3.13). It
expects to rely increasingly on the private sector for new construction and development, both for
the highways and for the ports and railways.
1.6    According to Bank forecasts, economic growth is expected to recover to an average rate
of 3-4% for the remainder of the 1990s. Partly because of the restructuring of the transport sector
that is taking place, transport demand and investment requirements will not grow proportionally
in the various modes. In the railways, aggregate traffic is not expected to grow, and investment
is expected to stay at about the level of recent years, although its composition will change. The
airline industry is now privatized, and thus will not receive any public sector investment, and
airport development seems unlikely to be significant. The only significant new port development
contemplated is increasing the cargo-handling capacity, particularly for containers, of the ports of
Veracruz and Altamira. Even if such port investments prove feasible, major expenditure is
unlikely to occur before 1994. Following the transfer of the Mexican Ports Authority (PM) from
SCT to SHCP in September 1992 (with a view to P.M.'s dissolution), and decentralization and
privatization of the ports, a large portion of future investments is likely to come from the private
sector.
1.7    The Government has greatly reduced its direct intervention in sectoral price and operational
control in recent years. Both trucking tariffs and interurban bus tariffs were deregulated in 1989.
Port dues and wharfage charges are now uniform throughout the system, and cargo handling tariffs
are determined at the local port level, although these still require authorization by SCT and SHCP.
The Mexican National Railways (FNM) has been granted some freedom to set its own tariffs under
the May 1991 tripartite agreement between FNM, the Government and railway user
representatives. In 1992 FNM's discretionary powers to set tariffs were further broadened, and
it is now free to adjust to market conditions. The Government recognizes the urgent need to
restructure the railway and stop the drain it creates on fiscal resources.  A program for
restructuring and partially privatizing the railway provides the rationale for a proposed Railway
Restructuring project under preparation.
1.8    The trucking regulations published on July 6, 1989 introduced a new, less regulated
highway transport regime: route restrictions were lifted, entrance barriers removed, the obligation
to use cargo consolidation centers was rescinded, as was the system of establishing fixed tariffs for
different routes.   The Bank supported these actions through the Road Transport and
Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Project (Loan No. 3207-ME). Results have been
remarkable to date; as a result of the trucking deregulation and the consequent competition, SCT
has granted over 100,000 new operating permits since July 1989, and haulage charges have
dropped considerably.  Passenger transport (including tour bus operations) has also been
deregulated, with equally felicitous results.
1.9   Intermodal transport, previously limited to one monopoly operator, has been freed of entry
limitations that required the ownership of at least two different modes of transport, and 23 new
operators are now offering competitive services, to the benefit of users.
1.10   SCT's 1990-1994 highway program  provides for the construction, operation and
maintenance of 4,000 km of toll highways, which would rely primarily on private concessionaires



3
and financing. So far, the concession program has been financed by Mexican investors but SCT
is seeking to attract foreign capital through the refinancing of older concessions. The first
refinancing was completed in 1992 with the participation of IFC. The operation was coordinated
with the Bank and it is consistent with the Bank's overall road sector strategy for Mexico that
encourages private sector participation where appropriate. Details of the concession program are
discussed in greater detail in para. 3.13. Decisions on the size and distribution of future
investment in the highway subsector should be based on the principle that greater resources should
be devoted to HRRM than to new construction. However, some new construction is still needed,
particularly to widen and strengthen some non-toll roads to meet demand created by Mexico's new
export orientation, influenced by NAFTA expectations. The proposed project would support this
strategy through the rehabilitation and resurfacing of federal highways as well as improved
planning for maintenance.
B. Institutional Framework and Sectoral Planning
1.11   SCT is responsible for the transport sector and its agencies (Chart 1-1).  SCT's
Subsecretariat for Infrastructure handles almost all public transport infrastructure development, and
its Subsecretariat for Operations is responsible for operational, regulatory and tariff matters. The
General Coordination for Planning (CGP) reports directly to the Secretary. SCT is administered
by an Undersecretary-level official, the "Oficial Mayor", under whom there is a Directorate-
General for Finances.
1.12   Responsibility for intermodal planning has been divided. SCT relies largely upon expertise
within PM and FNM for technical assessments of port and railway projects, but performs highway
assessments itself. Sector planning is carried out in close cooperation with relevant national and
regional authorities, the private sector, and other interested parties. Sector commitments are
detailed in a five-year National Program for Transport Modernization (Programna Nacional de
Modernizacifn del Transporte: 1990-1994), which evolves directly from the National Development
Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo: 1989-1994). This overall plan determines the strategies,
objectives, and priorities that direct the efforts of each of the sectors. An important feature of the
National Highway Program is the priority allocated to maintenance. The main features of the
Highway Program are dealt with in detail in Chapter III.
1.13   Public participation in the development of SCT's program is encouraged and, indeed,
required by law. In March 1989, SCT called public meetings in a number of cities to discuss
transport modernization. Participants were public servants from the federal, state, and local levels,
as well as users of all modes of transportation, chambers of commerce, equipment and vehicle
manufacturers, labor unions, and professional associations. The conclusions arrived at were
incorporated into the formulation of the National Program for Transport Modernization. SCT
periodically evaluates the results of its efforts, using the program as a guide. Based on this
evaluation, SCT reports its progress to the Congress as required in the Planning Law.
1.14   Planning deficiencies in identifying, selecting and programming investments affect the
entire transport sector. The institutional capacity to undertake analysis on an intermodal basis is
particularly weak. In some cases, project analysis has been conducted after the fact to "justify"
projects already selected for implementation. Frequently, overriding social considerations are used
as an excuse. Though its ability to make economic evaluations has improved, SCT often fails to
perform the analyses that should serve as a basis for its decisions. Often costs are underestimated,



4
and other alternatives, particularly lower-cost solutions, are not considered. To improve planning
and programming, SCT must make a policy commitment to use technical analyses as the basis for
all investment decisions. Coordination of planning is particularly important now that SCT's
operational functions are being transferred to its regional offices and to the parastatals under the
present administration's decentralization policy.
1.15  In early 1991, as part of project preparation, SCT decided to strengthen its planning unit
and gave it a greater role in the analysis and selection of priorities. CGP was created to supervise
all planning within SCT, including the General Directorate for Planning (DGP) and the Sector
Planning Committee. Thus, planning has been brought closer to the decision maker. CGP's
functions and responsibilities were revised to enhance its coordinating role and an Environmental
Affairs Unit was established to oversee environmental affairs in the transport sector. Also in 1991,
the Secretariat for Programming and Budgeting (SPP), later merged with SHCP, which approves
the proposed sector investment and operating budgets, established an investment unit to review all
major investments in the sector and to make modal planning more consistent. SCT has prepared
an action plan to consolidate the above changes. The plan calls for a formal establishment and
strengthening of CGP and training its staff. The action plan was agreed upon during project
appraisal and confirmed at negotiations (paras. 4.7(a) and 6.1(b)).
H. BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Main Issues and Lessons in the Highway Sector
2.1    The Bank has been involved with the Mexican Highway Sector since 1960. It has made
ten loans for the federal highway system, the first seven of which were regular project investments
loans whereas the last three were sector investment loans. In addition, the Bank made a loan to
improve the rural roads system in the state of Chiapas and a Road Transport and
Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Project which supported, on the transport side, Mexico's
policy of deregulating highway transport services. Annex A reviews the experiences of the ten
loans to the federal road system and the road transport component of the Road Transport and
Sector Adjustment Project.
2.2    Despite the time span of 27 years between the First Highway Project (Loan 268-ME) and
the Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2875-ME), and the diverse economic, inflationary and
exchange rate experiences of the Mexican economy (Figure 2-1), there are common features in all
the projects. The analysis below reviews these features up to and including the Highway
Maintenance Project and examines some of the underlying factors. It also looks at the changes in
approach that first appeared under the Seventh Highway Project and were built upon during the
three sector investment loans. These changes would be further developed and consolidated in the
proposed project.



5
Figure 2-1: Price Escalation of Civil Works (C.W.), Consumer Price Index (INPC)
Exchage Rate and Minium SalaT (190-1990)
12,000 -
........ INPC (cPI)
-  EXCHANGE RATE
10,000   -  . -** C.W. ADJUSTMENTS
- . -   MINIMUM SALARY
zwj  8,000 -
C.,
H    6,000                                              /
z
w
4,000 -
4 ooo // , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......!
2,000 -
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
NOTE: BASE YEAR = 1982 = 100
2.3   Physical Implementation of the Projects. Practically all projects were forecast to be
completed in four years from appraisal. None achieved this objective and there was no indication
of consistent improvement up to 1990. The First Highway Project was completed 3-1/2 years
behind schedule and the Second Highway Sector Project ended three years late. The underlying
causes were not the physical capability of the implementing agencies to undertake the work. The
PCRs and Audit Reports consistently show that the implementation delays were caused by slow
counterpart allocations and cost overruns due to insufficiently detailed engineing, changes in the
scope of works, delays during construction and inflation. The main reason for the slow counterpart
allocations was SCT's lack of incentives to use the Bahk loan proceeds.
2.4   In 1990 the new administration decided to link budgetary disbursements to the execution
of Bank-financed projects. This decision speeded up the completion of the Second Highway Sector
Project, which was then three years behind schedule. As a result, about 50% of the disbursements
were made in the last two years of project implementation. The ongoing Highway Maintenance
Project also had significant delays until the new disbursement policy was introduced. It is now
expected to be completed according to schedule.



6
2.5    Among the seven project investment loans, only the Third Highway Project achieved some
success in reducing cost overruns because the Bank insisted that detailed engineering had to be
completed before loan negotiations. The Second Highway Sector and the Highway Maintenance
Project drew on the experience of the First Sector Loan and earlier projects. Although delays and
overruns persisted, about 80% of the subprojects financed under the Second Sector Project were
completed within the loan disbursement period and the cost overruns of these subprojects were
substantially less than in previous projects.
2.6   The main lessons drawn from the physical implementation of the projects show the need
to ensure (a) an obligatory link between disbursements of Bank proceeds and execution of the
agency budget; (b) adequate annual budgetary allocation of funds for ongoing and committed
subprojects, before any agreement is made to include new subprojects for Bank financing; and (c)
completion of detailed engineering of a substantial part of the project before loan negotiations. The
proposed project design draws from these lessons by consolidating annual and mid-term
consultations on SCT's Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance Program and budget
(paras. 4.7(c) and 5.16). In addition, detailed engineering for highway rehabilitation and bridge
works, included in the first year of project implementation, were substantially completed by loan
negotiations (para. 5.1).
2.7   Institutional Strengthening. Although the Bank's sector reviews from 1964 to 1975 all
emphasized institutional and regulatory problems, improvement in these areas was less than
expected. The Bank tended to take a passive stance on lending and to focus rather narrowly on
construction, and loan conditionality was mainly designed to deal with assurances about the
implementation of civil works. However, within the framework of the Seventh Project, the Bank
shifted its focus to transport sector planning and transport regulation. The Bank eventually adopted
a sector approach to highway lending in Mexico and the corresponding loan conditionality stressed
highway economic and planning issues.
2.8    Despite these achievements, the First Highway Sector Project, approved in 1979, failed to
address wider sector issues or policy matters. However, planning was improved because yearly
budget consultations were instituted to integrate the Bank into the planning process of the
Secretariat for Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP) and to support improvements in
budgetary coordination, program composition and project selection. The project was implemented
in a flexible way, disbursements were made quickly, and fewer Bank staff were needed to
supervise the project.
2.9    After 1982, with Government interest focused on stabilizing the economy, the Bank
concentrated on improving institutional effectiveness. With the merger of SCT and SAHOP and
the increased macroeconomic importance of the Bank loans during a long recession, institutional
issues were stressed, and the new Mexican administration allocated more resources to improving
operational efficiency in the transport sector.
2.10   Execution of the Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME) approved in 1984
proceeded fairly smoothly, partly due to lessons learned and progress made under the first project.
On the institutional side, both the second project and the Highway Maintenance Project under
execution, provided the initial basis for: (i) discussion of the importance of increasing the ratio
of highway maintenance expenditures to construction expenditures and of ensuring that adequate
financing for the subprojects was provided during the annual budget cycle; (ii) encouraging the
Government to improve works programming and preparation of multiannual budget projections;



7
(iii) revisions of SCT's procurement practices; and (iv) tying expenditures for extemally funded
projects to budgetary disbursements of the implementing agency.
2.11   The 1987 Highway Maintenance Project ran into initial difficulties due to shortages of local
funds and to the timing of the project, two years prior to a change in administration.
Implementation is now proceeding smoothly, and the loan should be fully disbursed by the end of
1993. Much of the project was implemented simultaneously with the Second Highway Sector
Project, and similar discussions were held on maintenance, planning and multiannual budgeting.
The project has also been instrumental in (i) introducing the concept of highway maintenance and
bridge management systems; (ii) providing for greater participation of the private sector through
maintenance contracting and improvement of procurement practices; and (iii) involving the different
branches of SHCP in the discussions regarding the need for additional allocations and better
efficiency in the use of allocated resources.
2.12   The major deregulation measures implemented under the road transport component of the
Sector Adjustment Project have helped to increase entry, diversify services and reduce road
transport prices. Cost recovery has improved significantly also, and road maintenance expenditures
have been increased.
2.13   The Bank's shift to sector investment loans provided greater flexibility and independence
to the Borrower and gave the Bank greater influence over sector policies and economic
management. The first two sector loans, however, may have been premature. We can argue with
hindsight that the Borrower was not prepared to handle a sector loan in the way the Bank expected.
The overruns, extensive delays and slow completion of several subprojects financed under the two
sector loans indicate that at the time the respective authorities did not have enough management
capacity to manage the project effectively. Thanks to close Bank supervision, the results of the
Second Sector Loan were more encouraging, with more completions and few overruns for the
subprojects initiated during the project period, although problems arose due to insufficient detailed
engineering and changes in project scope.
2.14   The Bank has become progressively more effective in dealing with institutional matters.
The experience with the three sector investment loans shows that institutional measures take a long
time to implement and that up-front conditionality on important matters and intense participation
of Government officials during the project preparation phase can speed up the process.
2.15   Worldwide, maintenance of road infrastructure has been a major target of Bank analyses,
studies, sector work and lending for over 25 years. Over time, the Bank has gradually widened
the scope, depth and complexity of maintenance remedies. Nowadays, the maintenance issue
figures prominently in Bank decisions for road sector lending, and most sector operations aim to
preserve road investments. Bank maintenance efforts were shaped by two policy papers, issued
in 1979 and 1988 respectively. Among the guiding principles stressed in these papers are:
recognition that costs of maintenance neglect can be extremely high, and need for national
balancing of new road construction and road maintenance. Also, maintenance is now often part
of the macro-economic dialogue, the ultimate and broadest platform for Government-Bank
interaction.
2.16   However, despite Bank-wide attention to maintenance, overall results have been
disappointing, causing increasing Bank concern that road repair bills of staggering proportions are
building up in its client countries and that maintenance costs will remain high unless maintenance



8
attitudes, policies and actions are fundamentally changed. The proposed project design takes these
findings into account and includes measures that would mitigate these risks.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.17   The Bank's lending strategy supports private-sector-led growth and aims to strengthen
Government institutions and policies in a climate of comprehensive reform. It also emphasizes
environmental policies. The Bank's strategy for the transport sector seeks in particular to (a)
consolidate the highway maintenance objectives and help catch up on delayed maintenance and
rehabilitation of existing assets, which brings higher economic returns than new investment; (b)
strengthen investment selection and prioritization to ensure that they are based on economic
criteria; (c) support institutional and policy reforms and the use of sound economic analysis to
ensure efficient traffic allocation between modes; (d) encourage decentralization and private sector
participation where appropriate; and (e) promote thorough assessment of the environmental
implications of transport investments and ensure that, when required, appropriate mitigation
measures are taken. The Bank's sector lending program through FY95 would include the proposed
Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project and a Railway Restructuring Project. These will
be supported by work to identify and address sectoral issues raised by the prospective establishment
of NAFTA and to improve coordination within and between the various transport modes.
2.18   Although recent policy reforms such as trucking deregulation and concessions to the private
sector for investments in toll roads evidence a strong Government commitment to reform,
achievements in other areas, such as institutional strengthening, sector planning, investment
optimization and prioritization, and highway maintenance improvement have been less than
expected. The design of the proposed project draws from the lessons of past experience. The
project would continue the efforts made in the Highway Maintenance Project and the Road
Transport and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Project to improve maintenance and traffic
safety on the federal highways. It would seek to improve SCT's capacity for maintenance
planning, to establish a systematic cost recovery methodology, and to address in a more focussed
way than previously the adequacy of budget allocations for HRRM. It is likely that elimination
of the HRRM backlog and achievement of all the project objectives will extend beyond. the
disbursement period. A follow-up project may be required to complete implementation of the
pavement and bridge management systems and to finance further reduction of the HRRM backlog.
m. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. Sector Issues
3.1   To reduce transport costs and improve safety, it is essential to commit resources wisely to
highway upkeep. This chapter will discuss the main highway sector issues that the proposed
project would seek to resolve, in particular institutional strengthening, planning and budgeting, cost
recovery, size and weight limits for trucks, highway traffic safety, and the environmental impact
of HRRM projects.
3.2   Institutional Strengthening. As part of its decentralization program, the Government is
strengthening the capacity of state governments to plan, finance, implement, operate and maintain
basic public services. The aim is to make state agencies more responsible and accountable and
thereby achieve more cost-effective delivery of the services essential to sustained economic growth.



9
One major state responsibility will be to administer the state and rural roads.  The state
governments must therefore develop the technical and organizational skills, and acquire the
necessary resources, to manage and maintain these roads. For a number of reasons, highway
decentralization has fallen behind schedule. Several states are requiring that roads be rehabilitated
before they will accept responsibility for their administration. Most states lack an adequate
highway agency. Also, it is unclear how the states will be financially compensated for their new
responsibility. Because of these and other problems, decentralization of the highway system is
likely to take some time. Steps are being taken to improve the implementation capacity of state
road agencies in four states under the Bank financed Decentralization and Regional Development
Project (Loan 3310-ME). Further support to road decentralization will be provided through a
feeder roads project under consideration by the Interamerican Development Bank (1DB).
3.3   Proposed Strenedtening of DGCCOP. Maintenance planning for the federal highways must
be improved. A unit of SCT's General Directorate for Maintenance of Public Works (DGCCOP)
is responsible for identifying and proposing HRRM investments and for preparing and supervising
the annual HRRM budget. This unit is technically weak and has organizational and staffing
problems. Under the ongoing Bank-financed Highways Maintenance Project, DGCCOP is being
reorganized. It will continue to be responsible for HRRM planning and budgeting, but SCT's
regional centers will have operational responsibility for HRRM. DGCCOP needs to consolate the
computerized HRRM management system that was introduced during project preparation. This
system can be used to prepare, optimize and justify annual and multiyear budgets, taking into
consideration SCT's limited budget resources. The reorganization of DGCCOP would be
completed under the proposed project. The project would also provide appropriate management
tools and training, (para. 4.7(b)). The need to strengthen DGCCOP's management to ensure better
HRRM planning is discussed in greater detail in paras. 3.27-3.29.
3.4   Enhancement of SCT's HRRM Budget and Government Strategy. About 60% of the
federal highway network is in poor condition (para. 3.23). The physical condition of the highway
is mainly reflected in the condition of the pavement. The pavement degrades through normal use
and weathering, but deteriorates faster when there is a high volume of traffic, and many large,
heavy vehicles. Maintenance and capital spending on rehabilitation and resurfacing can help
restore pavement condition. The highways that have received most attention and the bulk of the
HRRM funding have been those included in the priority network (15,000 km). Nevertheless, even
in this high priority category, most of the roads have not received the attention over the last few
years that their age, condition, and traffic level would normally dictate. Many of those in fair
conditions are deteriorating into poor condition and will soon require rehabilitation. The longer
the delay, the higher the cost for rehabilitation.
3.5   To some extent, routine maintenance has managed to mask the true condition of the
network to the road user. But further technical inspection and testing has revealed that it is
becoming increasingly difficult to maintain the network in this manner. The HRRM budget has
been increased in real terms since 1990 (para. 3.25), but there is a large backlog of rehabilitation
and pavement overlay to attend to as a result of past neglect. A recent study by SCT, assisted by
a French Consulting Company (BCEOM) estimates that the federal HRRM budget allocation of the
1990-1992 period is about one-third of the estimated need of about US$700 million per year.
Based on this study, the Govermment updated its federal highway maintenance policy (Annex G),
and prepared a HRRM program for 1993-96. The Government expects to use available resources
more efficiently and to increase budget allocations to HRRM as macroeconomic conditions permit
(para. 4.7(c). The 1993-96 Program (para. 4.8) would become a reference against which the Bank



10
and the Government would be able to assess the adequacy of the annual budget allocations for
HRRM during the annual implementation reviews of the proposed project. The Government: (a)
should pursue a minimum HRRM strategy based on annual average allocations of about US$360
million; (b) could as macroeconomic conditions permit, switch during project implementation to
a strategy based on increased annual allocations; and (c) could assign any additional resources
available to the highway sector, either through budgetary allocations or from extra-budgetary
sources, such as those derived from voluntary contributions from users (para. 3.7), to HRRM and
safety of the federal highways.
3.6    A further problem of the annual HRRM budget is the mismatch between the timing of civil
works (these can only be easily undertaken during the dry season) and the flow of authorized funds
during the year. The authorizations schedule is distributed unevenly, with a tendency to authorize
disbursement of a large amount between September and December of the fiscal year. It is
therefore almost impossible to complete the works within the fiscal year. Work must then be
finished in the rainy season, with consequent delays and cost overruns. To help smooth out
financial flows, the monthly availability of funds would need to be improved. In addition, SCT
is starting the budgetary process earlier in the year, to ensure that all technical details are solved
by the time the budget year begins, but needs SHCP authorization (Oficio de Secas) to initiate the
construction process early in the year (para. 4.9(b)).
3.7    Highway Cost Recovery. If transportation is to be used in the most efficient manner,
users should face charges that adequately reflect the true cost (including externalities) of the mode
chosen. This is particularly important considering the open competition taking place between
trucking and the railways as a result of deregulation. Charges to highway users, which include toll
fees, fuel taxes, and licenses, are adequate to cover the sector expenditure needs and the policy
letter should confirm the Govermnent's commitment to continue this cost recovery policy.
However, there is an imbalance between automobiles and trucks. Heavier vehicles, which cause
more damage to the road system, are not paying in full (through the various charges levied on
them) for such damage. The Government has taken a number of steps to increase recovery of road
costs from users, including raising gasoline (eaded and unleaded) prices beyond international levels
and diesel fuel close to such levels. Tolls on the Federal toll network have increased substantially
in real terms since 1988, with higher real increases levied on heavy vehicles. Furthermore, at the
end of 1992, SCT negotiated with the trucking industry a "voluntary" user fee, which should
provide additional modest funds for HRRM and safety programs. The Goveranment encouraged
private construction and operation of toll roads in part to enhance recovery of costs associated with
major new highways. However, high tolls on the privately managed roads have led to lower than
expected traffic (para. 3.13). As heavy vehicles are still not contributing in proportion to the
damage they cause, a more comprehensive look at highway financing strategies and assessment of
the various options for resource mobilization is needed.
3.8    Given the structural changes which the sector has undergone, it was agreed at appraisal that
a comprehensive review of highway financing strategies and an assessment of resource mobilization
options would be carried out. The project would provide for a symposium to support dialogue on
these issues between the public and private sectors and, based on a comprehensive study, the
possible development and implementation of a related action plan. The study will include an initial
possible approach toward defining ways to measure and recover indirect costs, such as those
associated with accidents and the environment. An interagency technical group (cost recovery
group), headed by SHCP, that was established during project preparation to take the lead on these
issues, will serve as the locus for the work to be carried out under the project. At negotiations



11
agreement was reached that the study would be completed by December 31, 1994, and that if the
Bank and the Government agree on the suitability of the study recommendations, action plan,
acceptable to the Bank, would be prepared by June 30, 1995 and subsequently implemented (para.
4.7(d)). The cost recovery group will also prepare an annual report on the status of road use costs
and road user charges and its results would be considered at the annual review. Annex C gives
a detailed assessment of the highway maintenance accounts balance and road user charges.
3.9    Vehide Size and Weight Limits. Mexico's vehicle size and weight limits are among the
highest in the world. The regulations were revised in 1980 based on consultations between the
Government, the truck manufacturers and carriers. This may have reflected a realistic assessment
of the Government's capabilities to monitor and enforce weights and measures at the time.
However, the optimum size and weight of the vehicles given Mexico's economic, technical and
administrative conditions have not been assessed. The issue has become more complex, as NAFTA
will reduce barriers to vehicle movements to and from the United States and Canada and Mexico
will need to coordinate policies with its northern neighbors. In addition, trucks increase costs to
the road system through overloading, which damages highway pavements and bridges and increases
the risk of severe accidents.
3.10   Revising existing size and weight limits to achieve a significant net positive benefit requires
a relatively complex evaluation of a number of alternatives that take into consideration the vehicle
operating cost, the road infrastructure and the cost of accidents. In 1991, SCT, with the assistance
of the Mexican Transport Institute (IMT), carried out a survey to (a) determine the extent of
overloading and the corridors where it is taking place most frequently; (b) determine the types of
trucks being overloaded, the types of cargo they carry, and the frequency of overloading; and (c)
collect dimensional data for trucks and determine which truck types do not comply with the
regulation. The survey found that about 23 % of the trucks exceed the legal axle weight. To
protect the pavements and bridges, and in response to concerns about harmonization of heavy truck
sizes and weights with United States and Canada, SCT prepared a new size and weight regulation
in 1992 and would start to enforce it in 1993. This is consistent with the proposed arrangement
under NAFTA that requires implementation of a program for making the parties' vehicle standards,
including size and weight standards, compatible with each other. The proposed project provides
for enactment of the revised vehicle size and weights regulation before December 31, 1993, and
its subsequent enforcement (para. 4.7(e)). At negotiations, this commitment was confirmed
(para. 6.1(h)).
3.11   Traffic Safety. SCT's road safety policy, outlined in the 1990-1994 National Program for
Transport Modernization, seeks to substantially reduce the number of trafflic fatalities and injuries.
Although various agencies are working to improve road safety, coordination is weak and targets
and policy objectives are not clearly defined. To improve road safety coordination, SCT's General
Directorate for Preventive Medicine (DGMPT), which represents the sector on the National Safety
Council, is working to increase road safety awareness. Also, in 1991, Mexico joined the North-
American Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance (CVSA), providing the basic framework for
uniformity, compatibility and reciprocity of inspections and motorcarrier safety enforcement
activities in North America. However, road accidents continue to be a major cause of death and
injury in Mexico. Statistics published by the National Institute of Statistics, Geography, and
Information (INEGI) show that road accidents account for about 3 % of all deaths recorded. Road
fatalities are estimated at 15,000 persons per year (about 216 deaths per 100,000 vehicles), a large
number compared to total fatalities in more industrialized countries. This represents an enormous
loss to the Mexican society and economy. Highway transport regulation on the grounds of road



12
safety is justified, and this is the one area where regulatory measures are still needed. However,
the causes of accidents generally lie in infrastructural, technical and behavioral parameters that
cannot be fully compensated for by regulatory measures. Since the main cause is driver negligence
(in 80% of all traffic accidents, some error on the part of the road user is involved), effective
driver training programs are needed. A skills test, required for licensing commercial drivers
(agreed as part of the NAFTA negotiations) has been implemented since April 1, 1992. The
proposed project would support implementation of the system for driver testing and licensing
through training of inspectors and examiners (para. 4.7(g)). It would also provide for research on
road safety, information campaigns, and for a program to reduce hazardous highway locations.
Under the project, DGMPT would prepare an annual report on the road traffic safety situation,
which would be discussed with all agencies concerned so as to improve coordination. Required
follow-up actions could be set forth in the action plan resulting from each project annual review
(para. 4.7(g)). Annex D gives details of the road traffic accident situation and of the proposed
road safety program.
3.12   Environmental Impact of Highway Projects. Article 27 of the Mexican Constitution
establishes the Federal Government's obligation to conserve the nation's natural resources. The
General Law on Ecological Balance and Protection of the Environment, enacted in March 1988,
constitutes the present legal framework to deal with transport environmental issues. Under this
law, the Government must: (a) establish federal environmental standards; (b) evaluate the
environmental impact of major projects; (c) carry out environmental protection actions in areas
under federal jurisdiction; and (d) create and manage federal natural protected areas. In addition,
Article 13 of the 1985 Public Works Law and Article 12 of its 1990 regulation require that the
environmental impact of public works be studied, and that environmental conditions be preserved
wherever public works are carried out. Shortly after the General Ecology Law went into effect
the Secretariat of Urban Development and Ecology, SEDUE (recently transformed into
SEDESOL), published a regulation on environmental impact assessments, which defined specific
conditions for mandatory SEDESOL review of an impact assessment, procedures for preparing and
presenting impact assessments, and sanctions for failure to comply with the regulations. As formal
environmental assessments of projects are recent in the highway sector, SCT must prepare for the
workload imposed by SEDESOL requirements.  SCT's new  Environmental Affairs Unit
(para. 1.15), will coordinate the execution of environmental impact assessments of transport
projects with SEDESOL. The unit would be strengthened under a proposed Feeder Roads Project
with IDB (para. 4.7(f)).
3.13   Toll Road Concessions. In 1989, the Govermnent began to grant concessions to private
parties for the construction, maintenance and operation of highways, bridges and tunnels. By
1994, the Government expects to have 5,000 km of highways under concession, of which some
4,000 km would be private toll highways. Participation of the private sector in the financing of
the concession program is expected to be about US$7.5 billion, of which some US$3.5 billion have
been disbursed already. To date over 30 private concessions have been awarded covering some
3,250 km, of which about 1,400 km are in operation. Although Mexico's pace of new toll
highway construction has been extraordinary and rivals the construction rates in the peak years of
the French and Spanish toll highway programs, some problems have occurred in implementation.
These include the inaccuracy of construction cost and traffic projections, high toll prices, short
concession periods, serious underutilization of some roads, and the domination of the program by
contractors rather than by facility operators. Errors in the traffic projections for these roads are
blamed on the high tolls, which are dictated by the short concession period. This, in turn, leads
to toll highway underutilization. The emphasis on short concessions, however, was to attract



13
private capital and to accommodate limited local long-term financing availability. The Government
is reviewing the concession program and results of its review are being incorporated into new
concession agreements. The review after a change in SCT's senior managers includes a thorough
revision of the program implementation and financial experience. The Government is also studying
the possibility of negotiating a reduction in toll rates with some of the existing concessionaires, in
return for extensions of the concession if necessary. In this regard, a toll fare reduction of 50%
has been agreed with the concessionaires to be applied on a trial basis in order to study the
elasticity of traffic with respect to toll rate changes. At the end of the three-month trial period
the concessionaires, the users and the Government would decide on a revised toll-fare strategy if
necessary. Also, Mexico is beginning to attract new foreign capital with a scheme for privatizing
existing toll roads under the Federal Road and Bridge Toll Authority (CAPUFE). The highway
sector financing study (para. 3.8) would include a comprehensive review of the adequacy of
highway financing in Mexico, including the application of tolls to the federal highways.
B. The Highway Network
3.14   Road transport in Mexico      Figure 3-1: Development of the Road Network
is the major mode for both
passengers and freight. In 1989,
99%   of  intercity  passenger          m. T
movement and about 84%  of         250-
cargo movement by land between
cities occurred on the highways.   200
Road trafflic generally grew by
10% per year in the 1970s and by   150
about 5% per year in the 1980s
(Table 3-1).   Traffic growth      100
occurred despite the economic
recession  and  substantial real    so
price increases for road freight.
The Federal Highway Network          1960  1965  1970  1975  1990  19BS  1990
(PHN) has evolved rapidly, as has                       Years
the rest of Mexico's road system
(Figure 3-1). In 1952, there were               |TOTAL  WPAVED
only 27,000 km of roads, 16,000
km of which were paved. By
1991, the road system had grown to over 240,000 km, about 85,000 km of which were paved
(including 6,000 km with four or more lanes). The system's annual rate of growth has slowed
from 8.7% per year from 1952-1975 to 1.7% per year from 1975 to 1991, a sign that the network
has reached relative maturity and that, except for a few areas, the primary network is in place.
In the past ten years, road investment has shifted from extension of the trunk network to
construction of rural access roads and, more recently, to maintaining and widening existing trunk
roads in response to increased travel demand (para. 3.30).



14
Table 3-1: Indicators of Highway Demand, 197-1990
Averaze Annual Growth Rate (percent)
1970     1975      1980       1985      1990      1970/   1975/  19801   1985/
1975    1980   1985    1990
Population (thousands)    50,690   60,150    69,655    77,938   86,150    3.5      4.0     2.3    2.0
GDP (billion 1980       2,340    3,171      4,470     4,920      5,236     6.3     7.1      1.9   1.3
pesos)
Per capita GDP (pesos    46,162   52,718    64,173    63,127    60,778     2.7     4.0    -0.3   -0.8
of 1980)
Vehicles in Circulation  1,792    3,340     5,828     6,932      9,741    13.3    11.8    3.5    7.0
(thousands)
Automobiles (thousands)   1,234    2,401    4,255     4,921      6,754    14.2    12.1     3.0   6.5
Trucks (thousands)       525       888      1,489      1,917     2,893    11.1    10.9    5.2    8.6
Buses (thousands)         33        51        84         94        94      9.1    10.5    2.3      0
Gasoline Consumption
by Road Vehicles       7,856    10,865    18,316    25,217      N.A.    6.7    11.0    6.6        N.A.
(miflion liters)
Diesel Consumption
by Road Vehicles       3,599    5,499      8,215    12,922      N.A.    8.8       8.4     9.5     N.A.
(million liters)
Passenger Cars/           24        40        63         63        78     10.1     8.4       0    6.7
1000 Inhabitants
Road network (km)      71,520   186,218   212,626   224,255   239,235   21.0    2.7         1.0   1.5
Federal Highways (km)   29,358   38,292    42,521    44,359    45,743    5.4       2.2     0.8   0.6
Source: Asociaci6n Mexicana de la Industria Automotriz, 'La Industria Automotriz de Mexico en Cifras", SCT, SPP.
November 1991
3.15    The 240,000 km of interurban roads in Mexico are classified as federal, toll, state and rural
roads, in accordance with the source of funds for the various road programs. Nationwide, states
have jurisdictional responsibility for some 61,000 km of road. The Government, through SCT,
has primary responsibility for the 49,000 km  of federal and toll highways.  Control and
responsibility for the approximately 132,000 km of rural roads is shared by local governments, the
states and the federal government (Iable 3-2). As stated earlier (para. 3.2), the Government is
transferring responsibility for rural roads to the states and local governments.



15
Table 3-2: Classification of Highways (Length in Km as of 1991)
Jurisdiction
Mexican Classification   Approximate Function   Federal     State       Local
- Federal Highways     Primary (arterials)     45,800*       -
- Toll Highways        Primary (arterials)      3,200        -
- State Highways       Secondary (collectors)     -        61,200
- Rural Roads          Tertiary Oocal)                    132,000
*   About 15,000 km of these roads are in the priority network, 13,000 km in the basic network and
17,800 km are of low priority. Lengths are given in two-lane highway equivalent km.
3.16   The Primary Highway Network (PHN), consisting of the federal highways under the
responsibility of SCT, the toll highways under CAPUFE, and roads managed by private sector
concessionaires, is a connected paved interurban network of continuous routes that serves corridor
movements having a trip length and travel density indicative of substantial statewide or interstate
travel and that serves all, or virtually all, urban areas with populations greater than 50,000
(MAP - IBRD 23709).
C. Administration of the Primary Highway Network
3.17   SCT's two Subsecretariats divide highway related tasks between them (Chart 1-1). The
Subsecretariat for Infrastructure has jurisdiction over the General Directorate for Federal Roads,
the General Directorate for Technical Services and the General Directorate for Maintenance of
Public Works (DGCCOP). These three directorates have primary responsibility for the design,
construction and maintenance of roads under federal jurisdiction. The Subsecretariat for Operations
includes the General Directorates for Tariffs, Land Transport, and Preventive Medicine and the
Federal Highway Patrol, which are responsible for transport services including vehicle regulation,
safety and police functions. SCT also maintains a fully staffed and equipped unit (SCT Regional
Center) in each state to carry out regional construction, maintenance and operations.
3.18   Before 1989, SCT constructed some 950 km of toll roads and 32 bridges. CAPUFE is
responsible for their operation and maintenance. Since 1989, most new toll roads have been built
by private sector companies, who will also operate and maintain them (para. 3.13).
3.19   SCT's General Directorate for Federal Highways (DGCF) has a large staff that designs
most of the federal highways and bridges in the country employing modem techniques; the criteria
and standards used (Table 3-3) are adequate. Most of the construction work is done by DGCF
through contracting, but some modernization (widening) works are handled by DGCCOP using the
same standards. There are several Mexican consulting firms engaged in highway and bridge
design, and SCT is increasing the use of these consulting firms to prepare the engineering of major
works.



16
Table 3-3: Federal Highway Design Criteria and Standards
CLASS                   E          D          C           B          A.            A4          AUS
Les
ITEM                 than 100   100-500   500-1500   1500-3000   3000-SOOO   5000-20000    5000-20000
AADI &/   AADT        AAT         AAJD1       AADT        AADT k        AAMm  ]I/
Design Speed (KPH)
Flat terrain                   50-70      50-70     70-100      80-100       90-110       90-110        90-110
Rolling terrain                40-60      40-60      50-80      60-90        70-110       70-110        70-110
Mountainous terrain            30-40      30-40      40-60       50-70       60-80        60-40         60-80
Radius (M)
Flat terrain                   70-150    70-150    150-350      210-420     270-420      270-420      270-420
Rolling terrain                40-105    40-105      70-210     105-270     150-350      150-350       150-350
Mountainous terrain            20-40      20-40      40-105     70-150      105-210      105-210       105-210
Maximum Grade (*)
Flat terrain                    7.0        6.0        5.0         4.0         4.0          4.0          4.0
Rolling terrain                 10.0       9.0        7.0         6.0         5.0          5.0          5.0
Mountainous terrain             13.0       12.0       8.0         7.0         6.0          6.0           6.0
Roadway Standards
Roadway Width (M)               4.0        6.0        7.0         9.0        12.0         22.0         2 x 11.0
Pavement Width (M)              4.0        6.0        6.0         7.0         4.0        2 x 7.0       2 x 7.0
Shoulder Width (M)               -          -         O.5         1.0         2.5          3.0          3.0
Superelevafion (M/M)                                          0.10 Max.
Cross-slope (%)                  3          3          2          2            2           2             2
Wdth of Median (M)               -          -          -           -           -           1.0          t.0
Minimum Sikbt Distance (M)
StODDing
Flat terrain                   55-95      55-95     95-155      115-175     135-175      135-175      135-175
Rolling terrain                40-75      40-75     55-115      75-135       95-155      95-155        95-155
Mountainous terrain            30-40      30-40      40-75       55-95       75-1 15     75-115        75-1 15
Pasin2
Flat terrain                     -       255-315   315-450     380-485      405-495     405-495       405-495
Rolling terrain                          100-270   225-380      270-405     315-450     315-450       315-450
Mountainous terrain              _       135-100    180-270     225-315     270-380     27G-380       270-380
Bridee Desitn Standards                                           HS20 (AASHTO) i_/
1I  AADT - Annual Average Daily Traffic.
b/  Separmed Roadways.
ci  American Association of Stat Highway and Transportafion OfficialB.
Note:   Ranges shown are from  Minimum' to wDesirable'.
Source: SCT - April 1992



17
3.20  After over 30 years of sustained road construction in Mexico, many experienced and well
equipped road construction contractors have emerged, and their relationship with SCT is well-
defined. Domestic contracting firms must register annually, providing detailed data on their
operations. There is a wide range of capacity among them, with the emphasis on medium-sized
firms capable of undertaking typical highway contracts. Under the Second Highway Sector Project
(Loan 2428-ME), completed in 1991, Mexican firms won all ICB contracts, discouraging foreign
firms from bidding for highway contracts in Mexico. SCT personnel supervise the construction
but increasing use of consultant services for this activity is being pursued. The Government has
reduced its once-dominant role in implementing highway rehabilitation and resurfacing works
through force account and the private sector's involvement in these activities is resulting in a more
efficient implementation of the budget. During negotiations agreement was reached that at least
70% of the highway rehabilitation works would be carried out by contract (para. 6. 1(a)).
D. Condition and Performance of Federal Highways
3.21   While highway condition refers mainly to the physical condition of the pavement and
bridges, performance refers to the degree of mobility (evel of service) provided to traffic.
Financing under the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project has helped to reduce the downward
trend in physical condition that was evident in the 1980s and to increase pavement resurfacing and
rehabilitation. The proposed project, by further reducing the rehabilitation bacldog, would support
the Government's policy of preserving the condition of the federal highways. Current pavement
conditions and forecasts of future highway travel demand are prime determinants of capital
investment requirements including highway rehabilitation and resurfacing. The capital needs for
adding capacity to improve system performance are being addressed mainly through the highway
concession program.
3.22   Although there is much variance between regions, average conditions on SCT's federal
highways appear to have worsened in the 1980s. The condition decline can be mainly attributed
to the decline in real terms of the HRRM budgets, from about US$230 million in 1983 to US$120
million in 1989. Because it has had to operate with low budgets for several years, SCT has limited
maintenance to emergency and repair works, but some rehabilitation and resurfacing is being
carried out as part of the Highway Maintenance Project. Patching and asphalt surface treatments
is all that many of the most trafficked highways are receiving, whether or not their foundations and
structure are adequate. Surface treatment conceals the true condition of the network from road
users. Conditions on the toll roads are better than on the federal highways. CAPUFE, which has
higher financial resources per km, has been able to maintain its 953 km of toll roads in a very
satisfactory manner.
3.23  In 1991, as part of the development of a pavement management system, DGCCOP made
an objective pavement condition inventory of the federal highways to supplement its traditional
subjective rating system. The inventory, which attempted to measure pavement roughness,
confirmed the poor condition of the federal highway system (Fable 34 and Annex F). According
to the inventory, 60% of the network is classified in poor condition, and 30% in fair condition.
A more detailed review of the roads in fair and poor condition revealed that about 5,000 km
require substantial strengthening beyond original design standards to accommodate today's axle
loads and traffic. Another 15,000 km is affected by the accummulated bacldog of deferred
resurfacing. Rehabilitation and resurfacing needs are increasing because of the high portion of
pavements that have reached an accelerated rate of deterioration.



18
Table 3-4: Federal Highways Pavement Condition Inventory, 1991 (Ian)
Trafflc Class  Heavy vehiclek  Good    Fair    Poor   Very     Total   Percentase
day/direct.                            Poor                  %
1          <   300   1,647   4,609    5,372      1,677    13,305      37
2         300 - 1000    1,073   3,838    6,830    2,590    14,331     40
3         1000 - 2000   768   1,793    2,838     1,064     6,463       18
4        2000- 6000     143     400      859       225     1,627       5
5          >   6000       0      28        8       28        64        0
Total                   3,631   10,668   15,907    5,584    35,790      100
Percentage                 10%     30%      44%      16%      100%
3.24   The situation with regard to bridges is similar. The Federal Highways include about 4,500
structures over 6 m in length which are classified as bridges. About 75% of these were built
before 1950 and may be either structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. In 1992, with the
assistance of the Danish Road Directorate, SCr started to develop a Bridge Management System
(SIPUMEX) including a condition inventory. An emergency inspection of 821 bridges considered
priority (Table 3-5) revealed that about 560 are deficient and require strengthening or extensive
repairs. The main problem is overloading - the bridges are supporting traffic loads two to three
times heavier than those for which they were designed. Some of the repair and reconstruction
work is being carried out with Bank financing under the Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2875-
ME). The proposed project would continue support for this program (para. 4.11). Additional
details concerning highway bridges are in the project files.
E. Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance of Federal Highways
3.25   Highway Rehabilitation,  Figure 3-2: Federal Highway Expenditures 1983-1991
Resurfacing and Maintenance               (Billion Mexican Pesos of 1990)
HRRM) Expenditures. SCI's
1990 and 1991 HRRM budgets
were doubled, in US Dollars,
with respect to 1989 (Figure 3-2)  1 200
and the proportion of HRRM to      1 oo 
total  highway  expenditures
increased from 51% in 1989 to        800
about 56% in 1991, stemming a
continuous downward trend since      600
1984. However, more substantial
increases will be required to        400
reduce the accumulated backlog      200
and meet normal annual HRRM
requirements.    Although  the         o
budget allocation for 1993 of            83  s4  s5  us  87  9B  B9  90  91
US$320 million is 82%  of the                            Yeare
budget for the highway sector (a  *Corntrctlon & Modern.   *MaTnten. & Rehabillt.
33% increase over the 1991



19
Table 3-5: Condition of Priority Bridges-1992
URGENCY OF REPAIRS Al
Total    Numb        -                                
STATE               Numb.    Inups.      0n        2          3         4 
_              None              __        _Alar
AGUASCALIENTES                   14       12                 1         N          3
BAJA CALIFORNIA                  66       25                          13          9         3
BAJA CALIFORNIA SUR              23       23                 4         6         11         2
CAMPECHE                         38       18                 1         7          8         2
COAHUILA                        226       41         8       1        10         20         2
CH[APAS                         214       27                          17         10
CHIHUAHUA                       325       18                           8          7         3
DURANGO                         254       41                 3        13         18         7
GUANAJUATO                      163       38                          14         16         8
GUERRERO                        256       40         2      13        17          4         4
HlDALGO                          65       11         4       5         1          1
JAUSCO                          222       57        12      27         9          5         4
MEXICO                           74       14         5       3         5          1
MORELOS                         282       33         5      15         7          3         3
MICHOACAN                        63        7         3       2         2
NAYARIT                          82       21         5       8         3          1         4
NUEVO LEON                      180       14         5       5         2          1          1
OAXACA                          313       39                 1        13         20         5
PUEBLA                           51       10         1       7         2
QUERETARO                        64       24         6       4         9          2          3
QUINTANA ROO                      6        5         1       2         1          1
SAN LUIS POTOSI                 100       68        16      17        15         14         6
SINALOA                         205       19         3                10          4         2
SONORA                          415       46                 2        27         14         3
TABASCO                          61       34         1      10        12         11
TAMAULIPAS                      251       48         7      18        16          3         4
TLAXCALA                        106        6         1       1         1          2          1
VERACRUZ NORTE                  192       29         6       6         9          4         4
VERACRUZ SUR                    118       29         5      10         7          5         2
ZACATECAS                       129       24                           1         16         7
TOTAL                  4558      821        _      166      265         214        80
A/ 0-1 Isignificant damge, no repair nooded;
2 Repair when convenient, except for strengthening;
3 Repair needed soon;
4 Repairas soon as possible; and
5 Alarm.



20
HRRM budget), and shows the Government's commitment to fund maintenance in a period of
macroeconomic constraints, it is still less than one half of the about US$700 million needed
annually to eliminate the backlog of HRRM by the year 2001. If this amount is not increased
significantly in subsequent years, the highway network condition will be only slightly better by the
end of the project implementation period than it is now, due to the high pavement deterioration rate
(para. 4.8).
3.26   To address the HRRM budget problem, SCT has agreed that cost-effective maintenance
planning requires a "systems' approach by means of which reliable data are collected periodically
and evaluations are performed using a decision-making scheme that, among other factors, considers
road performance, user costs and budget constraints (para. 3.29 and 4.7(c)).
3.27 Changes in Maintenance Management. DGCCOP has been affected by SCT's policies
on administrative decentralization and privatization. Under administrative decentralization (which
was formalized by a ministerial directive of May 13, 1991), most operational and programming
functions have been delegated to SCT's regional centers. DGCCOP still must manage and direct
the maintenance program, and must focus on policy, budget, and technical issues at the national
level. In practice, however, DGCCOP not only prepares the budget but also often intervenes in
the operational work. Greater use of private contractors and consultant services has improved
effectiveness of operations, and enabled the Government to reduce staff and payroll (rable 3-6).
Table 3-6: SCT's Highway Maintenance Stafling Pattern, 1986-1991
Total Salary Expenditure
Year              Number of
Employees       Current Mex$ million    US$ million
1986               22,885                28,765              50.34
1987               23,216                52,478              38.87
1988                18,963              89,727               40.36
1989                17,262              120,084              48.70
1990                15,640              117,822              41.8
1991                14,610              121,183              40.23
3.28   A 1991 internal appraisal of DGCCOP capabilities identified weaknesses in human
resources, budgeting, planning and programming (Figure 3-3). As part of project preparation
activities, DGCCOP contracted management consultants (McKinsey and Co., Mexico-United
States) to investigate the problems and recommend improvements. Based on the consultant's
recommendations, SCT decided to reorganize DGCCOP (para. 3.3). The new organization has
5 directorates responsible for 24 departments whose functions are in line with DGCCOP's
headquarters normative role of planning and monitoring (see Chart 3-1). DGCCOP is streamlining
its staff in accordance with its new functions and an experienced general director, selected from
SCT's staff, has been appointed. The reorganization would be supported by the project through
an action plan to complete it before July 1994, furnished in draft during appraisal and confirmed
at negotiations (para. 4.7(b)). Progress in the implementation of the plan would be assessed during



21
the proposed annual reviews (para. 5.16. Also, the proposed project would provide technical
assistance and training to strengthen DGCCOP's capacity (para. 4.7(h)).
Figure 3-3: Assessment of DGCCOP's Capabilities
INSTITIMONAL
Legal Powers                                                 66
Administration                                44
Humn Resources                       30
Budget (adequacy)                   27
Financal Control                                                6S
MANAGERIAL
Inventory                                     so
Planning/Prog.                        33
Budgeting (process)                    30
Cost Control                                     so
Workshops/Equip.                  2s
Supplies                                      50
TECHNICAL
Planning (criteria)                     33 3
Malerils-                                                     70
Quality Control                                                6s
Condition Inv                                           5 S
Field Monftorinl                        34
Research/Inform,.                              43_
0      10     20      30      40     50      60      70     80
Good scores as percentage of total scores
Source: DGCCOP - November 1991
3.29 DGCCOP is also improving its management systems (Annex E). A pavement management
system, including a computer program to evaluate different maintenance strategies (SISTER-Mex)
and the systematic collection and analysis of highway condition data has been developed with the
assistance of consultants; it was used to develop the HRRM strategy that underpins the proposed
program (para. 4.7(c)). It is now being fine-tuned. DGCCOP is also developing a new bridge
management system (SIPUMEX) described in para. 3.24. Relevant information will be
incorporated into a comprehensive Highway Maintenance Management System (SICC) which is
expected to be in operation by mid-1995. The SICC would be used to rationalize DGCCOP's
maintenance planning and to develop its HRRM budgets. It should provide the basis for more
national decision making, and more completely documented allocations, and would provide SCT
with stronger arguments that could be used to persuade Government decision-makers to increase
budget allocations. The proposed project includes technical assistance to continue the development
and implementation of SISTER-Mex and SIPUMEX. An agreement between SCT and the U.S.



22
Federal Highway Administration to create a peer review group to evaluate and monitor highway
maintenance activities in both countries should further strengthen maintenance planning.
F. Highway Finance
3.30   Highway Expenditures.            Figure 3-4: Evaluation of Federal Highway
Highway capital expenditures can                   System Investments'
be differentiated on the basis of
whether  they  add  additional
capacity  or  improve  existing       2      scr
physical conditions.   Capacity            *CAEPUFE
improvements  include                 1
modernization with added lanes        1500  lhon Iex$ in l90
and major widening, as well as
new construction on new right of      -ooo 
way. Preservation improvements
include   rehabilitation   and
resurfacing  works.    Routine         500
maintenance, on the other hand,
is  a  recurrent  expenditure.'/
Preservation improvements and            0 91   e 91   B5 91   B5 91   B5 91
routine maintenance (HRRM) in              N5o1    2591    H59       851     69
1991  accounted  for 56%   of              Ce s   ,rac.
federal highway expenditure; for * Exclu Irwnents on rural roads and private Irvegnnt.
1993, the share is expected to be
82%. Figure 34 compares the
investrnent composition of different highway programs for 1985 and 1991. In constant pesos, 1991
Government spending was comparable to that of 1985 when severe cuts in public investment
started. The lowest point in highway spending (in constant pesos) was 1989. Since 1990,
Government highway spending has increased modestly, and private sector financing has expanded
dramatically (para. 3.13). Road investments in the last seven years have shifted from extension
of the Primary Highway Network to its maintenance and modernization, including widening,
rehabilitation and additional lanes. Key features of the National Highway Program and their status
by end of 1992 are presented in Table 3-7.
11     Routine Maintenance refrs to local repair of roadway and pavement; grading of shoulders; regular
maintenance of road drainage, side slopes, verges, traffic control devices, and furniture; roadside
cleaning, dust and vogetation control, and maintaining rest areas and safety appurtenances.
Resurfacing inchudes the placing of one or more now asphalt overlays on an existing paved road (with
a thin asphalt overlay, a surface treatment, or a seal coat) to preserve its structural integrity and ride
quality. Resurfacing is often called periodic maintenanco.
Rehabilitation refers to selective repair, strengthening, and shape correction of pavement or roadway
(inchlding minor drainage and shoulder improvements) to restore structural strength and ride quality.



23
Table 3-7: National Highway Program 1990-1994
Program and Objectives                      Status by End of 1992
o  Hghway Maintenance: at least 40% of    Although highway maintenance allocations
SCT's budget will be allocated for     have been greater than the 40% planned
maintenance and elimination of the      (naintenance allocation for 1993 represents
maintenance backlog, with participation  82% of the highway budget), they have been
by state governmet in maintaining       insufficient to cope with the maintenance and
feeder and rural roads.                rehabilitation backlog.
o New concession roads: 4,000 km of       About 1,400 km have been placed in
the nation's highway system, wil be     operation and 1,800 are under construction.
improved to access-controlled toll      The program has been increased to 5,000
highways, to be financed and built by   kn including about 1,000 km of highways
the private sector.                     concessions to the states.
o Modernization: 3,000 km of existing     About 1,400 km of highways have been
two-lane highways will undergo         improved and another 1,000 kn would be
inprovement and expansion which, with    implemented through the highway
the addition of concession roads and toll-    concession program.
froe highways, will boost the nation's
inventory of four-lane highways from
4,100 km to ovor 10,000 kom by 1994.
o Construction of trunk highway links:    This program has been affected by
2,300 km of new highways will be        budgetary constraints. Only 400 km of new
constructed to complete a total of 4,100  highways have been constructed.
km of interconnections of the trunk
highway system, thereby improving the
activities of population and economic
centers.
o Feeder and rural roads: 500 now         The program is being carried out by the
feeder roads will be constructed, at a  states and municipalities with community
total length of 10,000 kn, as will 12,500    participation. Participation of the federal
km of now and 15,000 km of rebuilt      goverrnent is boing channeled mainly
rural roads, with private sector        through the poverty-reduction National
participation in maitnance.             Solidarity Program (SOLIDARIDAD).
3.31   The most serious risk caused by the low budget appropriations is the accumulating backlog
of deferred HRRM, as maintenance needs are not met and the aging network is strained by more
and heavier vehicles than were originally anticipated (para. 3.22). Details of the proposed HRRM
Program for the period 1993 to 1996 are evaluated in paras. 4.8 to 4.12. To manage the cash flow



24
for maintenance more efficiently, SCT would handle directly the funds resulting from the system
of voluntary contributions from the trucking industry. The voluntary contribution introduced at
the end of 1992 is expected to generate about N$130 million in 1993 (para. 3.7), these funds are
additional to the budget appropriations that support the proposed program. During negotiations
agreement was reached on annual consultations with the Bank on the expenditure program and
adequate cash flow arrangement for HRRM expenditures (within the yearly budget allocations)
(paras. 4.9(a) and 4.9(b)).
3.32   Revenue funds for highway programs come from a variety of sources including user
charges, loans from international agencies such as the Bank, and from the private sector. At
present, there are no dedicated taxes or trust funds for long-term capital programs. While overall
road costs are being recovered, there are still cross-subsidies between automobiles and trucks
(para. 3.7) The interagency technical group (para. 3.8), with Bank assistance, developed a
methodology to allocate the costs and revenues among the users of Mexican highways. The project
would provide for a formal annual Bank review of the cost recovery situation, for an in-depth
assessment of the adequacy of road financing in Mexico, for possible submission to the Bank by
mid-1995 of an action plan based on the study results and for its subsequent implementation
(paras. 3.7, 3.8 and 4.7(d)).
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
4.1   Preparation of the proposed project started in April 1991 following a request from SCT
for continued Bank assistance in protecting past investments in the federal highway sector. In
particular, the Government sought Bank cooperation in implementing ongoing measures started
under the Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2875-ME) related to institutional strengthening, cost
recovery, and HRRM funding. The project's design and scope resulted from discussions between
the Bank, SCT and SHCP during several project preparation missions to Mexico between April
1991 and June 1992.
B. Project Objectives
4.2   The project aims to: (a) protect and enhance past investments in the federal highway
sector, through investment in rehabilitation and resurfacing of paved highways; (b) improve HRRM
planning by strengthening the institutional capacity of SCT's HRRM directorate; (c) support
measures to improve funding for HRRM; (d) reduce transport costs through improvements in
traffic safety and more efficient traffic flow on the federal highways; and (e) support further policy
improvements through (i) studies on road financing; (ii) development and implementation of a data
base system for the transport sector; (iii) preparation of project planning and evaluation manuals;
and (iv) improved consideration of environmental factors in highway maintenance.
4.3   The project would seek to improve SCT's pavement management system and its sectoral
and highway maintenance planning units. It would also seek to establish a systematic methodology
to assess annually the status of highway cost recovery and would address the adequacy of budgetary
allocations for HRRM. A follow-up project may be required to consolidate the objectives pursued



25
particularly in the further development and implementation of a comprehensive highway
maintenance management system comprised of a compatible pavement management system and
SIPUMEX for the administration of pavements and bridges and to further finance reduction of the
HRRM backlog.
C. Project Description
4.4   The project objectives would be achieved through the implementation of: (a) an institutional
strengthening component for improving transport sector planning and policies (US$7.27 million);
(b) a comprehensive, four-year HRRM program for the federal highway system (US$1,532.48
million); and (c) a road traffic safety program  (US$20.25 million).  The institutional
strengthening component would include specific measures and actions to improve: (a) sector
planning and coordination, especially for HRRM; (b) HRRM funding and budget preparation; (c)
sustainability, through development of a coherent framework for road sector financing; (d) control
of truck overloading through the issuance of revised vehicle weight and size regulations and a
program for their implementation; (e) specifications for HRRM works, to include quarry
management and pollution control of construction equipment; (f) the system for truck driver
education, testing and licensing; and (g) training of sector staff. The four-year ERRM would
include about 27,000 km of highway rehabilitation and resurfacing, improvement and rehabilitation
of bridges and workshops and replacement/rehabilitation of equipment, and consultancy services.
The road traffic safety program would include improvement of some 350 hazardous road
locations. This program would also finance the purchase of equipment for the new licensing and
vehicle inspection systems and for the preventive medical unit, as well as road safety studies and
information campaigns, studies of vehicle standards and an international traffic safety seminar.
Institutional Strengthening Component
4.5   The actions to be taken to strengthen sector institutions were discussed during the
implementation of the Highway Maintenance Project and refined during the preparation of the
proposed project. During project preparation, the Bank supported up-front actions to the extent
possible. Therefore, several studies were carried out regarding highway maintenance institutional
issues, and decisions on the studies' recommendations were sought before project appraisal. On
this basis, the Government drafted an action program for strengthening highway sector
administration. The program would:
*  strengthen the capacity of SCT's Planning Coordination Office
*  complete the reorganization of DGCCOP
*  develop and implement highway maintenance management systems
*  continue the work of the interagency technical group for highway cost recovery
*  implement the vehicle size and weight regulation
*  implement the training program, the HRRM  Program and the Traffic Safety
component.
4.6   Annex G details the implementation targets and schedule for the proposed project, including
this action program. At negotiations, Government commitment to implementing the action
program was confirmed (para. 6. 1(b)). The proposed annual reviews would provide a forum to
assess the progress achieved and the need for further measures (para. 5.16). The proposed project
would provide technical assistance, as necessary, to implement the action program. Annex H



26
details the proposed consultancy services included in the project. Draft terms of reference for the
main studies and technical assistance are in the Project File.
4.7   The studies undertaken, the decisions taken and pending, and the actions proposed are as
follows:
(a) Sector Planning and Coordination. In 1991, a planning coordinator was appointed
to supervise all planning within SCr, the functions and responsibilities of CGP were
revised to enhance its coordination role, and an Environmental Affairs Unit was created
(paras. 1.15 and 3.12). In addition, SCT decided to improve the cost-benefit analysis
of highway projects by using the vehicle operating costs model (VOC-MEX) adapted
from the Bank's HDM. To complement these decisions, SCT would:
*  before December 31, 1993, formally establish the Planning Coordination Office
and outline its functions;
*  prepare project planning and evaluation manuals, which would include capital
budgeting procedures;
*  develop and implement a database system for the transport sector; and
*  introduce and implement a model for the strategic planning of freight flow at the
national or regional levels.
The action program was reviewed during project appraisal and found satisfactory. It
was confirmed during negotiations (para. 6. 1(b)).
The proposed project would provide technical assistance to CGP, including related
training for higher-level staff. The scope and terms of reference for consulting services
for preparation of project evaluation manuals, and for the strategic planning model as
well as the ongoing effort to develop and implement a transpor. database system were
reviewed and agreed during appraisal.
(b) Highway Maintenance Organization and Planning. The actions carried out during
project preparation include a ministerial directive of May 13, 1991 formalizing the
administrative decentralization of SCT, an internal appraisal of DGCCOP, preparation
by consultants of a report on the modernization of DGCCOP, including its
reorganization, and the adoption of management systems for the administration of
bridges and pavements (paras. 3.27 - 3.29). Before project appraisal, SCT started to
implement the reorganization of DGCCOP. The action program includes specific
operations to (i) complete the reorganization of DGCCOP by mid-1994, (ii) implement
the Highway Maintenance Management System (SICC) by mid-1995, and (iii) carry out
the training program. During negotiations, the action program and arrangements for
its implementation were confirmed (para. 6. 1(b)).
The proposed project would provide technical assistance to DGCCOP, as necessary,
to assist in implementing its reorganization and to strengthen its operational capacity
in such areas as planning, programming, supervising, technical standards, and staff
training. The project would continue supporting the technical assistance started under
the Highway Maintenance Project to implement the pavement and bridge management
systems.



27
(c) HRRM  Funding and Budget Preparation.   During project preparation, a
computerized budget planning system (SISTER-Mex) was introduced (para. 4.8). SCr
used this system to develop a HRRM strategy that would be compatible with present
budget allocations. The Government's highway maintenance policy letter (see Annex
G) and the 1993-96 HRRM Program were reviewed and agreed during negotiations
(para. 6.1(c)). The policy letter states the Government's intention to substantially
improve the highway network conditions through the increase in the allocation of
financial resources to HRRM, and define the Government's highway maintenance
strategy in terms of objectives, and institutional improvements. Also, the Government
would continue its policy of giving priority to HRRM over other sector investments in
the allocation of resources. During negotiations agreements were reached that: (i) the
preparation of the annual program would be systematized and SISTER-Mex would be
used in the program preparation and to obtain an adequate balance between
rehabilitation, resurfacing and routine maintenance activities (para. 6.1(d)); and (ii)
SCT would review with the Bank, by October 31 of each year, the HRRM budget
proposals for the following financial year. Annual reviews, on January of each year,
would assess the adequacy of the annual budget allocations. Also, agreement was
reached that the Bank would not consider financing any new subprojects under the loan,
for a given year, until it had been demonstrated that the budgetary allocations for
HRRM are, for the year in question, reasonably within the levels set forth in the 1993-
96 HRRM Program and cover the completion of Bank approved subprojects
commenced in a prior fiscal year (para. 6.1(e)). In addition the project would provide
for implementation of the Government's action program (para. 4.6) and for the
continuation of technical assistance to DGCCOP to further improve its planning and
programming functions and implement SISTER-Mex as a standard tool for preparation
of HRRM budgets.
(d) Highway Cost Recovery Policies and Instruments. Under the proposed project,
actions would be taken to ensure that the federal government has sound highway cost
recovery policies and instruments, and that adequate monitoring systems are established
to permit updating the charges. During project preparation, the interagency technical
group developed a simple methodology to measure the costs involved and to
systematize their calculation so that cost recovery information could be retrieved at any
time. The current situation was reviewed to ensure that at least short-term marginal
costs were being recovered. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the
Government would continue to pursue and strengthen, as appropriate, its policy of
ensuring adequate road user charges with different types of users contributing at a level
sufficient to cover the cost that can be attributed to them (para. 6.1(f). It would submit
to the Bank an annual report on the status of highway cost recovery and would
exchange views with the Bank on its report. Furthermore, during negotiations,
agreement was reached that the Govermnent would prepare under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank, no later than December 31, 1994, a
study on the road financing strategies and resource mobilization options available to the
Government, if the Bank and the Government agree on the suitability of the study
recommendations, prepare by June 30, 1995 an action plan satisfactory to the Bank
with respect to strategies and measures to be adopted, and thereafter carry out the
action plan (para. 6.1(g)). A satisfactory action program to continue the work of the
interagency group was discussed and agreed during project appraisal and confirmed at
negotiations (para. 6.1(b)).



28
(e) Control of Truck Overloading. This problem is being addressed, in a first stage, by
a survey initiated under the Road Transport and Telecommunications Sector Adjustment
Project (Loan 3207-ME). A report on the survey showing the statistical information
on vehicle size and loadings was completed in May 1992. Also, SCT has revised its
vehicle size and weight regulation and would start to enforce in 1993. The action
program submitted by Government during project appraisal includes a detailed timetable
for enacting the regulation and for its implementation (para. 3.10).  During
negotiations, agreement was reached that Government would enact the regulation before
December 31, 1993 (para. 6.1(h)), the action program was reviewed and agreed
(para. 6.1(b)), and its implementation would be monitored during the proposed annual
reviews (para. 5.16).
(f) Improvement in Environmental Control. SCT's Environmental Affairs Unit
(para. 1.15) is to be strengthened under the IDB Rural Roads Project presently under
preparation (para. 3.12). To comply with environmental requirements, SCT has
revised its work specifications for HRRM works and improved those parts related to
the coverage of cultural patrimony, the managing of quarries and pollution control of
construction equipment. These revisions have been included in the bidding documents
for construction of civil works and are adequate.
(g) Road Trffic Safety. The project seeks to improve driver behavior and increase
public road traffic safety awareness (Annex D). As of April 1, 1992, a new licensing
system, including a truck driver's skill test, was introduced as part of the agreements
for NAFTA (para. 3.11). During project preparation, DGTT prepared a training
program for inspectors, supervisors and examiners (Annex B). The project would
provide for continuing this training as well as for technical assistance related to
research on road safety, information campaigns, preparation of programs to reduce
hazardous highway locations, and vehicle safety standards. At negotiations, agreement
was reached that DGMPT will prepare an annual report on the Road Traffic Safety
situation and programs and that required follow-up actions would be set forth in the
action plan resulting from each project annual review (paras. 3.11 and 6.1(i)). The
outline of the report was reviewed and agreed during appraisal.
(h) Staff Training. SCT has analyzed in detail its immediate and urgent technical training
needs for DGCCOP, DGTT and CGP, the three directorates most involved in the
project (Annex B). The proposed project would provide for continuation of the training
program, emphasizing both technical, managerial and administrative training for the
staff of the three directorates. It would include equipment, course support expenses,
formal training courses, attendance at conferences and seminars, and study visits both
in Mexico and abroad. At negotiations, the scope and implementation schedule for the
training component was confirmed (para. 6.1 (b)).
Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance Program.
4.8   The Loan would finance a slice of SCT's 1993-1996 HRRM Program. The program is
based on the results of a series of simulations of various strategies of road maintenance
rehabilitation and resurfacing for different budget appropriation levels using the SISTER-Mex
budget preparation system (Figure 4-1). Development of these strategies was the central task of



29
project preparation. SCT, with consultants' assistance, developed several strategies to identify one
that would be compatible with financial constraints, while preserving the highway network and
yielding maximum economic returns. The selected strategy and the four-year program were
reviewed during appraisal. Due to strict budgetary restrictions, imposed by the Government's
macroeconomic policy to reduce inflation, the 1993 budgetary level for HRRM would be about
US$320 million, it is expected to be increased to about US$415 million by 1996. This would be
enough to prevent further deterioration of the network, but not enough to achieve any significant
improvements. However, a greater use of private toll roads by heavy vehicles would alleviate the
problem on roads close to the toll roads. Table 4.1 presents the main features of the HRRM
Program, and provides physical and financial targets and impact indicators. The program envisions
rehabilitation and resurfacing of about 27,000 km of highways, rehabilitation and improvement of
280 bridges, and routine network maintenance. Program details are presented in Annex F. The
first-year work program and budget was fully appraised and found sufficient for a transition period
between the existing planning and programming system and a more sophisticated system that
includes the use of SISTER-Mex. The program would be financed from budgetary transfers,
including those financed under the proposed loan proceeds. In order to promote sound financing
practices for the sector, the Bank's loan would not finance routine maintenance. Also, to build
gradually expenditures for rehabilitation and resurfacing works into the Government's budget
financing for future years, Bank disbursements for road civil works would be made on a declining
basis (para. 5.20).
4.9   During negotiations, the Government confirmed its proposed 1993-1996 HRRM Program
(para. 6.10)), and timetable and implementation targets (para. 6.1(b)). To ensure smooth
execution of the HRRM Program and appropriate balance among the different road activities, the
detailed components of the program would be reviewed and adjusted annually by SCT to reflect
funding expectations and implementation progress as part of the planning and budgeting process
required by SHCP. During negotiations agreement was reached from the Government that:
(a) SCT would furnish to the Bank, by December 31 of each year, a summary report to
be prepared on the basis of Table 4-1 which would serve as the minimum criteria to
assess progress of the HRRM Program implementation during the annual review
meetings (paras 5.16 and 6.1(k));
(b) SCT would prepare and SHCP would approve and furnish to the Bank, by January 31
each year, the estimated monthly cash flow of HRRM expenditures for the year, which
should ensure that the majority of the budgetary funds would be available during the
first semester of the fiscal year, and that an authorization (Oficio de Secas) to allow for
starting of works would be issued by SHCP (para. 6.1(1)); and
(c) SCT would contract independent consultants to assist DGCCOP in the coordination of
the program and to provide technical assistance to the civil work supervision teams
(para. 6.1(m)).
4.10  The Loan would finance about 11,000 km of highway rehabilitation and pavement
resurfacing works of SCT's 1993-1996 HRRM Program. The selection of individual road sections
to be included under the program would be made using the selected highway maintenance strategy
(para. 4.8) and individual feasibility studies. The minimum ERR requirements for the sections are
explained in para. 5.3. The project would provide for consultant services for detailed engineering
and supervision of the program subprojects, as required.



30
Figure 4-1: Comparison or Strategy Results (1993 - 2007)
MANTENANCE AND VEHICLE OPERATING COST (undiscounted)         SBEWflS8 AND COSTS FOR VARIOUS MArENANCE STRATEGIES
NPV OF BENEFITS..
POOR              CONDITlON      25/o
IN 1992lo
cl FAIR                                             soge   60                           *tr. 1
B GOOD,t 36 
92% 6%  50 ;5
0o0                                          *           40                     tt 30        o str. Io
2 hMAltirNANC COST    37%      ob                  3  
t550               i /    2,
<03%   h36              6                      20*t.Ie
1500                                                      10'1                                               :
20
6      8       10    12      14     16    le    20
NPV OF ROAD MAINTENANCE COST.
a _scOuUTtAD      AT It%  in Us a 5S
oTe strategy numbers are for identification purposes only.
NPV OF COST (N$ x IO*)
50 _    v    _STRATif M_AKTIN*NE  YVINICLE OP1RATINl                                                TOTAL
40                                  _                                   _ COST       COST           COST
1 3     16,391       684,206        700,597
3 1     13,024       693,945        706,969
20                                          ~~~      ~~~~~~~~30  12,321  699,740  712,061
_20                          19_2  ajz  _ /  _ _   _87                9,925       716,703        726,628
0                            ftl1    1       10.3           20      11,471       730,463         741,954
is     31      30      e7      aa      00             a8'      9,068       731,867         740,935
STRAertcies                              00        5,419      743,197         748,616



31
Table 4-1: Highway Rehabilitation, Resurracing and Maintenance Program 1993-1996
Estimated DGCCOP Budget Requirements, Physical Targets and Impact Indicators
1993       1994       1995        1996      TOTAL
I. Financial Targets
(1993 Mexican NS Million)
Total                    1,000.2     1,065.0    1,125.9    1,298.0    4,489.1
(a) Pavements                          833.2       866.4      941.2    1,118.2    3,759.0
- Force Account Works               480.2       420.0      391.9      384.5    1,676.6
Rehabilitation                    148.7       133.8      120.4       108.4     511.3
Resurfacing                       154.0       138.6      124.7       112.3     529.6
Routine Maintenance               177.5       147.6      146.8       163.8     635.7
- Contracted Works                  353.0       446.4      549.3      733.7    2,082.4
Rehabilitation                    135.3       310.8      487.9      621.1    1,555.1
Resurfacing                       187.7       107.4       41.1       89.6      425.8
Equipment Purchasing               30.0        28.2       20.3       23.0      101.5
(b) Bridge
Rehabilitation/Improvement           50.0        69.5       68.4       69.3      257.2
(c) Miscellaneous                       117.0      129.1      116.3       110.5     472.9
II. Physical Targets
(a) Pavements
- Force Account Works
Rehabilitation       KM             386         438        477        325      1,596
Resurfacing          KM           4,295       3,706      3,458      2,947     14,406
Routine Maintenance    KM        33,600      35,790     35,790     35,790    140,970
- Contracted Works
Rehabilitation       KM             336         713      1,268       1,300     3,617
Periodic Maintenance   KM         3,366       1,837        729       1,S06     7,438
(b) Bridge Rehabilitation/Improvement
UNiTS              76          45         85         74        280
EII. Impact Indicators
(a) Highway Pavements: % of
highway length in fair to good
condition
Strategy 88 (basic strategy)         40          36         35          39
Strtegy 87                           39          41         40          44
Strategy 13                          38          44         52          50
(b) Bridges: units in need of repair
Alarm                                66          32          0           0
Urgent                              214         181         168         83
Less urgent                         26S         256        256         256



32
4.11 The project bridge component would provide for the repair, rehabilitation and improvement
of about 280 priority bridges (Annex F). Details of bridge selection are given in paras. 3.24 and
5.24. About 76 bridges considered as high priority would be included in the project's first-year
program. Detailed surveys and work estimates for these bridges were reviewed during appraisal
and found adequate.
4.12 Given the increased reliance on contracting for maintenance works, the equipment
component (2% of base cost) would include only purchasing of asphalt patching trucks and routine
maintenance equipment, purchasing of spare parts and tools, and improvement of depots
maintenance. An estimate of equipment needs is presented in Annex F.
Traffic Safety
4.13 Support would be provided for SCT's program to improve road safety (para. 4.4 and
Annex D). Annex G details the action plan (implementation targets and schedule) for the traffic
safety activities. During negotiations the action plan was confirmed (para. 6.1(b)).
4.14 The project provides for the improvement of about 350 hazardous road locations (mostly
intersections and sharp curves). The works would be undertaken either as part of the road and
bridge rehabilitation programs or under separate contracts, as appropriate. These improvements
are based on a master list of hazardous road sections prepared from a combination of accident
statistics developed by DGTT and the Federal Highway Patrol, and from field visits. For 1993,
SCT plans to improve some 20 sections for which detailed studies including the evaluation of
alternative improvement options were carried out by DGCCOP with consultants' assistance. A
report containing information justifying each improvement, both technically and economically, was
prepared and is available in the project file. Based on this experience a tentative program for
1993-1996 was established. The project would also provide for consultant services for detailed
preparation of the program and for supervision of the works. The training to be provided as part
of the traffic safety component is outlined in Annex B.
D. Project Cost and Financing
4.15 The total cost of the project is estimated at about US$1,560 million equivalent with a foreign
exchange component of US$637.29 million, based upon 1993 prices and including physical and
price contingencies (Tlable 4-2). Identifiable taxes and duties are about US$127.42 million and the
total project cost, net of taxes, is US$1,432.58 million equivalent. The cost estimates for the
HRRM Program and bridge rehabilitation program are based upon detailed estimates prepared for
the maintenance strategy selection study, the Bridge Management System, and samples of detailed
engineering, and are similar to those obtained in recent contracts. The costs of the highway safety
training and technical assistance components were estimated in accordance with prevailing costs
of materials and services. The estimated man-month rate for local consultants varies between
US$4,000 and US$7,000 and for expatriate consultants, between US$10,000 and US$15,000. The
proposed loan of US$480 million would finance 31 % of the total project cost. The cost of the road
safety seminar of about US$120,000 would be financed with aid from Sweden (BITS), United
Kingdom, France and the Mexican private sector. The Government would finance the remaining
US$1,079.88 million equivalent. The provision of funds in SCT's 1993 budget to cover the
project's first year program is adequate, and an estimate for the budget for subsequent years was
provided and reviewed during project appraisal.



33
Table 4-2: Project Component and Estimated Costs
(Million of U.S. Dollars)
For      Bank
Project Component                 Local     Foreign     Total    Exch. Participatlon
%       USS
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION, RESURFACING AND MAINTENANCE
1. Highway Rehabilitation                       349.31      263.52     612.83   43    247.79
2. Pavement Resurfacing                          175.67     132.53     308.20   43      75.99
3. Routine Maintenance                           153.80      51.27     205.07   25       0.00
4. Bridge Rehabilitation/ lmprovement             47.29      35.68      82.97   43      45.03
5. Depots Rehabilitation/lmprovement               1.89       1.26       3.15   40       1.75
6. Miscellaneous                                  85.76      6469      150.45   43       0.00
Subtotal Civil Works         813.73     548.94    1362.67          370.56
7. Equipment Acquisition and Parts                 8.87      20.69      29.56   70      25 10
Subtotal Goods                 8.87      20.69      29.56           25.10
8. Supervision and Design Services                26.00      14.00      40.00   35      35.20
Subtotal Services             26.00      14.00      40.00           35.20
TRAFFIC SAFETY
9. Improvement of Hazardous Road Locations        8U28       5.52       18Q   40        7.64
Subtotal Civil Works           8.28       5.52       13.80           7.64
10. Equipment for Licensing                       0.48        1.13       1.61   70       1.35
11. Equipment for Vehicle Inspection              0.48        1.13       1.61   70       1.35
12. Equipment for Preventive Medicine             041         097        La    70        1L09
Subtotal Goods                 1.38       3.22       4.60            3.79
13. Vehicle Standards Study                        0.08       0.04       0.12   35       0.10
14. Road Safety Seminar                            0.01       0.11       0.12   90       0.00
1S. Information Campaigns                         0.08        0.04       0.12   35       0.10
16. Road Safety Research                          0.08        0.04         1     35      010
Subtotal Services              0.24       0.23       0.48            0.30
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
17. Office and Audiovisual Equipment               0.05       0.07       0.12   60       0.11
18. Course Material Support                       0u 10                  0Q39   60       0 36
Subtotal Goods                 0.20       0.30       0.51            0.47
19. Instructors Fee                                1.08       0.58       1.67   35       1.47
20. Attendance at Outside Training                 0.12       0.50       0.62   80       0.54
21. Consultants for Sector Planning                2.40       1.60       4.00   40       3.52
Subtotal Services              3.61       2.68       6.28            5.53
Total Base Costs                                   862.31     595.58    1457.89          448.59
Price Contingencies                                 60.40      411       102.11           31.41
Total Project Costs                                922.71     637.29    1560.00          480.00
Notes:  1. Prices as of Jan. 1993
2. Base Costs include about 15% of physical contingencies
3. Price Contingencies reflect anticipated changes in local and international prices of 3. 1% per year from
January 1993 onwards.
4. Identifiable taxes and duties are about US$127.42 million and the total project cost, net of taxes, is
US$1432.58 million equivalent.



34
4.16 A summary of the project cost and tentative financing is shown in Table 4-3. As explained
in para. 4.8, the Bank's loan would not finance routine maintenance and disbursements for civil
works would be made in a declining basis (para. 5.20).
Table 4-3: Sumnuary of Project Cost and Fnancig Plan
LOCAL       EQURiIG    TOTLL
(In Million of U.S. Dollars)
Estimated Cost:
HRRM Program                           848.60       583.62    1432.22
Traffic Safety                           9.90         8.98       18.88
Institutional Strengthening              3.81         2.98       6.79
Total Base Costs                 862.31       595.58    1457.89
Price Contingencies                     60.40        41.71      102.11
Total Project Costs              922.71        637.29    1560.00
FinanciE Plan:
Governrment of Mexico                  922.71       157.17    1079.88
IBRD                                     -          480.00     480.00
Aid from Sweden, U.K., France             .           0.12       0.12
Total                            922.71       637.29    1560.00
V. PROJECT EXECUTION
A. Subproject Selection, Preparation, and Evaluation
5.1    Highway Rehabilitation and Resurfacing. Subprojects (road segments) of SCT's 1993-
1996 Highway Rehabilitation and Resurfacing Program would be selected according to economic
priorities using the SISTER-Mex and updated data on traffic and road conditions. Details of the
subproject selection and evaluation methodology are presented in paras. 5.3 and 5.23. Individual
bridges would be selected from the Bridge Rehabilitation and Improvement Program which was
prepared on the basis of the inventory of about 821 bridges considered to have priority. This
inventory is part of the first phase of SIPUMEX. During negotiations a detailed report on the final
engineering designs, confirming the list of road sectors and bridges to be treated during the first
year of the project's execution, was provided to and reviewed by the Bank. Details of the first-
year program are in the project file.



35
5.2    On an annual basis, during the course of project execution, SCT, through DGCCOP, will
update its condition inventory of roads and bridges of the federal highway network and determine
current traffic levels. Using this information, and SISTER-Mex, SIMAP, and SIPUMEX, a
proposed maintenance and rehabilitation program for roads and bridges will be established for that
year and submitted to SCT's regional centers for verification (Figure F-2). At negotiations,
agreement was reached with the government concerning the annual review by the Bank of the
proposed program and on the procedures and methodologies to be applied by the government in
its preparation (paras. 5.16(c) and 6.1(c)).
5.3    Any subproject under the program related to highway rehabilitation should be evaluated
and selected following a methodology satisfactory to the Bank, which would include an
environmental assessment in all cases warranted. Such subprojects should:
(a)    have an ERR calculated in accordance with a method satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 5.23), of at least 25%, except for a number of subprojects for which the
accumulated total investment does not exceed 10% of the budget for the year in
which such subprojects are being considered; such proportion of subprojects would
require an ERR of at least 12% each. 'he limited exception would allow
flexibility for the inclusion of some subprojects with a strong social justification.
(b)    neither require changes in the road alignment nor involve negative environmental
implications for which ameriolative measures have not been identified through a
satisfactory environmental assessment;
(c)    have a structural design life of at least 15 years in the case of highway
rehabilitation (unless a technical study demonstrates that a shorter design life is
appropriate); and
(d)    have a detailed economic analysis, for those subprojects for which traffic may be
influenced by the construction of a toll road. Such economic analysis should
consider the toll road and the proposed road as one system.
Subprojects related to the rehabilitation and improvement of bridges should be evaluated and
selected following a methodology satisfactory to the Bank and have a benefit-cost ratio higher than
one. Confirmation on agreements on the above procedures was obtained at negotiations
(para. 6.1(n)).
5.4   Trafic Safety. A tentative program based on the diagnosis and final designs of about 20
hazardous road locations, "black spots" with statistically significant accidents, was prepared by
SCT with consultants' assistance (para. 4.14). The program would be updated during project
implementation to include about 350 black spots and to improve the methodology for selection and
design. The works would be carried out by contract and would be included, to the extent possible,
in the civil works contracts for highway rehabilitation.
5.5   Before committing funds for a subproject, the Bank would require the following:
(a) for subprojects related to rehabilitation and resurfacing of paved roads, rehabilitation
and improvement of bridges, and improvement of hazardous road locations, the annual



36
program showing the results of the selection/prioritization process (paras. 5.3 and 5.4),
including an environmental assessment in all cases warranted;
(b) for acquisition of equipment, spare parts and tools, and for workshop rehabilitation and
improvement: lists, type and estimated value of proposed acquisitions and schedule of
execution;
(c) for purchase of equipment for traffic safety and training: a list with an estimated value
of equipment and a procurement schedule; and
(d) for studies and technical assistance: detailed terms of reference, manpower
requirements, cost estimates, and implementation schedules.
B. Conditions and Procedures for Pr   ent of Subprojects
5.6   The Bank will help finance contracts related to a subproject provided that counterpart funds
are allocated for that subproject and that the tendering is according to agreed-upon procedures and
agreed-upon design standards.
5.7   SCT would be directly responsible for the procurement of items under the project.
Standard bidding documents agreed between the Mexican Authorities and the Bank will be used
during project execution. Civil works contracts exceeding the equivalent of US$3.0 million would
be subject to prior review by the Bank. In addition, all ICB and the first LCB contracts, both for
acquisition of goods and for civil works, would also be subjected to prior review by the Bank. All
other procurement documentation would be subject to selective ex-post review; SCT would retain
documentation for these contracts for periodic supervision by Bank staff. Under these proposed
arrangements, it is expected that about 70% of the total value of Bank-financed contracts will be
subject to prior review.
5.8   Civil works would represent about 95 % of total project costs, equipment and materials 2 %,
and consulting services and training the remaining 3%. All contracts that can be packaged to
exceed the equivalent of US$5.0 million for civil works and $250,000 for equipment or materials
would be procured on the basis of ICB following the Bank's procurement guidelines. In the case
of procurement of goods through ICB, Mexican firms would be provided a preference margin equal
to 15% or the prevailing duty, whichever is lower.
5.9   The Bank has reviewed local procurement procedures and found them acceptable. LCB
procedures would be used to award contracts with estimated costs below US$5.0 million for civil
works and US$250,000 for goods up to US$530 million in the aggregate for civil works and
US$5.0 million for goods. Local bidding by invitation, based on price quotations from at least
three bidders, would be used for contracts with estimated costs below US$250,000 for civil works
and US$50,000 for goods up to US$50 million in the aggregate for works, and US$1.0 million for
goods.
5.10  The selection and appointment of consultants for studies, works supervision, and technical
assistance would follow the August 1981 Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Consultants
to further develop SISTER, SIPUMEX and the model for strategic planning would be engaged
through sole sourcing, as the three international consulting firms that helped to develop these



37
programs have acquired a necessary close understanding of the Mexican system and have a
significant comparative advantage, due to their familiarity With the programs. These consultancies
are expected to cost less than US$1.0 million each.
5.11   Project cost breakdown by procurement method is presented in Table 5-1; the amount in
parentheses shows allocations of loan proceeds. Agreement was confirmed during negotiations on
all procurement arrangements (para. 6. 1(o)).
C. Implementation and Monitoring
5.12 BANOBRAS will be the Borrower. A discussion of BANOBRAS' organization and
finances is presented in the SAR for the Medium-Size Cities Urban Transport Project approved by
the Board on February 1993 (Loan 3559-ME). BANOBRAS will relend the loan proceeds to the
Government (for SCT) under the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with Govermnent
bearing the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. It will be a condition of effectiveness that the
Borrower and the Guarantor enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the
transfer of loan funds (para. 6.2). SCT, through its various general directorates, would be
responsible for the execution of the project as follows:
(a)    DGCCOP would undertake the HRRM Program as well as the improvement of
hazardous road locations and the bulk of the training program;
(b)    DGMPT would be responsible for the road safety seminars and research and the
road safety information campaigns;
(c)    DGIT would be responsible for the training of officials, inspectors and examiners
in charge of issuing federal drivers licenses and of inspecting vehicles as well as
for purchasing equipment for these activities;
(d)    SCT's Office of General Coordination for Planning (CGP) would be responsible
for sector planning studies, and for coordinating with the Secretary of Finance the
annual preparation of a report on highway cost recovery; and
(e)    SHCP would be responsible for carrying out the road maintenance financing study.
5.13   Any substantial change in the internal organization of SCT's General Directorate for
Maintenance that could reduce its ability to carry out subprojects would be an event of default
(para. 6.3).
5.14  SCT has implemented ten highway projects with the Bank, including a substantially
complete Highway Maintenance Project (see Chapter II). To coordinate project implementation,
SCT would continue to use its Office of Coordination of External Financing which would
coordinate the project activities with BANOBRAS. BANOBRAS would also prepare loan
disbursement applications and submit these to the Bank. In addition, a Tripartite Committee,
composed of representatives of SHCP, SCT and the General Secretariat of the Comptroller of the



38
Table 5-1: Procurement Arrangements
(in Million of U.S. Dollars)
ICB        LCB       OTIER      N.B.F. jI    TOTAL
Civi Works
- Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing    151.42     489.54                  359.35     1000.31
and Hazardous Locations                (83.78)    (270.84)                            (354.62)
- Bridge Rehabilitation and Improvement              37.09      50.00        1.69        88.78
(20.52)    (27.66)                 (48.18)
- Depots Rehabilitation and                          3.37                                3.37
Improvement                                        (1.87)                              (1.87)
- Routine Maintenance                                                       219.43      219.43
- Miscelancous                                                             160.99      160.99
Subtotal Civil Works             151.42      530.00     50.00 h/    741.46      1472.88
(83.78)    (293.23)    (27.66)       -        (404.67)
- Highway Maintenance Equipment          27.39        3.78       0.46                    31.63
Acquisition and Parts                  (24.10)     (2.46)     (0.30)                  (26.86)
- Equipment for licensing, Vehicle        3.70        1.22                               4.92
Inspection and Preventive Medicine      (3.26)     (0.79)                              (4.05)
Training Equipment, Materials                                   0.54                    0.54
(0.50)                  (0.50)
Subtotal Goods                    31.09       5.00       1.00 h/                 37.09
(27.36)    (3.25)      (0.80)                  (31.41)
- Consultants for Highways                                      47.08 S/                 47.08
(41.44)                 (41.44)
- Safety Studies, Campaigns, Research                            0.38        0.13        0.51
and Road Safety Seminar                                       (0.33)                   (0.33)
- Instructors Fee and Outside                                    2.44                    2.44
Trainig                                                        (2.15)                  (2.15)
Subtotal Services:                                           49.90        0.13        50.03
(43.92)                (43.92)
TOTAL                182.51     535.00      100.90      741.59     1560.00
_______________________   (111.14)   (296.48)    (72.38)                       -        (480.00)
A/  Not Bank financed.
hi Local bidding by invitation of at least three biddenr.
f/ Includes about US$3 million for continuing the technical assistance services of three consultant
firms (ingle source selction).
Note: Figures in pnthese are amounts to be financed by the proposed Bank Loan.



39
Federation (SECOGEF), has been set up and charged with auditing the efficiency of resource use
in the federal highway maintenance program. These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations
(para. 6.1(p)).
5.15   Project supervision is expected to take place at least twice a year to monitor progress with
the proposed project. Supervision missions at the appropriate point of the annual budget cycle
would seek assurance of the adequacy of funding requested for each component, which would be
confirmed in the annual reviews. Because of the country-wide nature of the project, supervision
requirements are expected to be about 20 staff weeks per year.
5.16  Annual reviews, in January of each year, would consider progress in implementing the
Government's policy statement on highway maintenance (para. 4.7(c)), and against project
implementation indicators set out in Table 4-1 and the budget for the fiscal year in which the
review takes place for the HRRM Program component. Progress of the road traffic safety and
institutional strengthening components would be reviewed against the indicators shown in Annex G.
SCT would provide a report on progress with implementation of each component of the project for
the review. In 1995, the Bank and the Government would conduct a mid-term review of project
implementation. In addition to the items covered in the annual review, the mid-term review would
undertake an in-depth interim assessment of progress with project implementation in all project
components, covering the key areas set out in Annex G. The annual and mid-term reviews would
conclude with an agreement on an action plan for the year in which such review takes place to
address any issues arising during implementation. At negotiations, agreement was reached on the
timing and scope of the annual and mid-term reviews and on the implementation indicators
(para. 6. 1(p)). More specifically, monitoring and supervision of the proposed project would focus
on:
(a)   the evolution of SCT's 1993-1996 HRRM Program. Table 4-1 gives the targets
in financial and physical terms for the tentative 1993-1996 HRRM Program.
Progress will be measured against these targets (para. 4.7(c) and 4.9));
(b)   the progress made in pursuing the institutional and sectoral objectives of the loan,
including studies, to be reviewed on the basis of the timetables and targets
presented in Annex G.
(c)   the progress in carrying out the road safety component to be reviewed on the basis
of the annual report on the Road Traffic Safety situation (para. 3.11) and the
timetables and targets presented in Annex G;
(d)   the progress made in implementing the vehicle size and weight regulation;
(e)   the implementation of eligible subprojects to be reviewed on the basis of feasibility
studies and progress reports prepared by DGCCOP using data and contributions
from each of the directorates or others carrying out the work of the project; and
(f)   the progress in commitments and disbursements of loan funds, to be assessed on
the basis of the summary of expenditures and on the physical progress of all
eligible subprojects.



40
5.17  In addition, SCT will provide, within six months of the closing date of the loan, a Project
Completion Report. During negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Government that SCT
will provide, every four months, progress reports to the Bank for project monitoring purposes, on
the basis of a format and methodology agreed at appraisal (para. 6.1(p)).
D. Accounts and Audits
5.18   Agreement was reached during negotiations that BANOBRAS' accounts, including the
project accounts, the special account and the statements of expenditures and SCT's project
accounts, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and that audit reports
for each financial year would be furnished to the Bank within six months of the closing date of the
audit period (para. 6.1(q)). The past audit performance of SCT and of BANOBRAS has been
satisfactory.
E. Disbursenents
5.19   Standard disbursement profiles prepared by the Bank for the LAC region, and in particular
for Mexico, indicate that a seven-year period is required to obtain full disbursement for this type
of project. The disbursement period has accordingly been estimated at seven years and the closing
date is June 30, 2000 (Annex 1). However, SCT seeks to accelerate project execution and to
complete the bulk of the project in about five years; in that case, the disbursement schedule would
be accelerated. The initial loan proceeds allocations and corresponding percentage to be disbursed
by category are shown in Table 5-2.
5.20  Bank disbursements for the rehabilitation and resurfacing works initially would be on the
basis of 61 % of total cost. This percentage would be decreased gradually (para. 4.8) to 48% so
that an average disbursement rate of 55 % would be achieved. Expenditures under contracts valued
below US$3 million for civil works, and US$250,000 for goods would be made on the basis of
certified statements of expenditure (SOEs) prepared by SCT. Disbursement claims above these
amounts would be fully documented. SCT would retain the supporting documentation and make
it available for examination by Bank staff during supervision missions. To expedite project
execution, a Special Account would be opened in the Central Bank, with an initial deposit of up
to US$25 million equivalent. In view of the desirability of starting the project without delay,
retroactive financing up to US$30 million equivalent (about 6% of loan funds) is proposed for
expenditures incurred after November 1, 1992. Retroactive financing will be used to finance the
initial cost of the first batch of works initiated during the construction season as well as some
consultant services required to start up the project. During negotiations, agreement was confirmed
on the disbursement arrangements (para. 6. 1(r)).
F. Economic Justification
5.21   The project supports a program designed to improve the efficiency of Mexico's highway
sector through: (a) implementation of a program to protect the condition of the highway network
while reducing the backlog of HRRM; (b) a program of institutional and policy improvements; and
(c) improvements in traffic safety. Direct benefits are thus expected to be derived from: (a)
reduction in transport costs; (b) strengthening transport planning and policy formulation;



41
Table 5-2: Initial Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of Loan    Percentae of Expenditur
Category                allocated (US$)        to be financed
1. Civil works for highway           330,000,000    - 61 % until US$70,000,000
rehabilitation, pavement                          has been disbursed; then
resurfacing and hazardous road                    - 58% until a cumulative
locations                                         US$156,000,000 has been
disbursed; then
- 55% until a cwmulative
US$236,000,000 has been
disbursed; then
- 51 % until a cumulative
US$295,000,000 has been
disbursed; then
- 48% thereafter
2. Civil works for bridge and         47,000,000                55%
maintenance depots rehabilitation/
improvement
3. Acquisition of highway maintenance  25,000,000        100% of foreign exp.
equipment and spare parts                             100% of local exp.
(ex-factory cost)
65% local exp.
4. Goods & equipment for driver        3,800,000         100% of foreign exp.
licensing, vehicle inspection,                         65% local exp.
and preventive medicine
5. Training program, including goods   2,500,000               100% A
and equipment, instructors, outside
visits
6. Consulting services                39,000,000               100% A
7. Unallocated                        32,700,000
. Excluding taxes.



42
(c) improving the sustainability of resource use through the development of sound road sector financing
strategies; (d) enhancing efficiency and accountability of the federal highway sector by streamlining
and strengthening public sector institutions responsible for maintenance and rehabilitation, and
through increased use of the private sector in carrying out HRRM works. Many of these benefits
are not quantifiable. Nevertheless, their impact is expected to be important.
5.22   The project's main quantifiable benefits are derived from the reduction in transport costs,
mainly due to the avoidance of further deterioration in the road network and the reduction in the
substantial backlog of rehabilitation. By the end of the project implementation period, it is
expected that about 40 % of the network remains in stable condition. If macroeconomic conditions
permit an increase in the allocation of resources for HRRM, some 88% of the network could be
in stable condition by the end of the century. Economic rates of return for most of the highway
rehabilitation and resurfacing subprojects are expected to be in excess of 25%. Investments under
the bridge rehabilitation and hazardous locations improvement programs are expected to have
benefit-cost ratios higher than one, with most having significantly higher ratios.  The
methodologies used to develop the optimum highway and bridge rehabilitation programs, and to
evaluate subprojects, are outlined below.
5.23 Highway Rehabilitation and Resurfacing. The economic analysis for the HRRM
Program was performed in two phases using the SISTER model for analysis at network level and
SCT's procedures for the individual projects. The SISTER model predicts the life cycle costs of
different pavement management options on the entire federal network and measures the benefits
from the road investments in the form of transport cost savings to society. In the first phase, an
analysis was performed at the network level but incorporated information from the project level.
Several strategies were studied and the optimum strategy was determined assuming sufficient
available funds for highway maintenance. The economic losses resulting from budgetary
constraints that would determine budgetary levels were also determined and discussed with SHCP
(Figure 4-1). Among the strategies whose financial requirements were less than or equal to the
available budget, the strategy having the lowest discounted cost was chosen. The ERR of the
chosen strategy is greater than 20%. Each road link selected in the first phase analysis would be
subjected to a more detailed analysis using SCT's procedures adapted from the Bank's HDM. A
detailed pavement condition survey, engineering design and updated traffic survey was carried out
for a first group of highways (totalling about 1,540 km) on which works would be implemented
during the project's first year and a more refined economic analysis performed. The ERR of
individual road sections analyzed for the first year of the program ranged from 13 % to over 170%,
indicating that the proposed investments are economically justified and timely. For the road
rehabilitation and resurfacing subprojects to be implemented during the subsequent years, the
economic analysis would follow the above methodology. Annex F and the project file provide
details of the methodology used and the results obtained for the first year of roads subprojects.
5.24   Bridge Rehabilitation and Improvement. The selection of bridges for repair and
improvement would be optimized through SIPUMEX (para. 3.24). This involves setting up a
priority list that states which bridges are to be repaired and when, and according to what repair
strategy. The optimization module of the SIPUMEX would select, by means of an iterative
process, the structures that are more economic to repair, and the repairs that will cost the least to
postpone when budgetary limits do not permit carrying out all repairs at the optimum time. The
economic evaluation of the selected bridges would be done by comparing the cost of repair with
the road user costs that may occur if the bridge is not repaired. Bridges with an estimated repair



43
cost of less than US$150,000 are not included in the analysis. An evaluation of thirty six (36)
bridges to be included in the 1993 program shows benefit-cost ratios greater than one, indicating
that the proposed investments are economically justified. The justification is further strengthened
if the risk of accidents, including possible loss of life, is factored in.
5.25   Hazardous Road Locations Improvement. It is difficult to attribute monetary values to
the losses arising from accidents. In addition, road safety feasibility studies are conditioned by the
availability of data of the appropriate kind and quality. Given these constraints, SCT, with the
cooperation of consultants, attempted to evaluate the hazardous road locations improvement
program, more to introduce objectives and methodology than to provide a definitive cost-benefit
analysis. Under the project, SCT seeks to establish a road accident cost methodology that would
provide objective assessment of which proposed projects should be given priority. In the suggested
method the cost of highway accidents was estimated as a product of the unit cost of accidents - by
degree of severity - and the available accident rates for each accident type with and without a
contemplated highway improvement. For each location, several mutually exclusive alternatives
were compared and project selection was accomplished using the incremental analysis approach.
Following this approach SCT selected 20 hazardous locations to be implemented in the first year
of the program. The results show Benefit-Cost ratios ranging between 1.1 and 58 (Annex D).
G. Project Environmental Aspects
5.26   The project is not expected to have a significant environmental impact, and has been
assigned to Category C. The HRRM program consists of works along existing facilities and no
road realignments are included. Earth works would be limited to occasional minor widening of
road shoulders and no displacement of people is involved. The project will improve highway
maintenance, which in turn enhances vehicle performance. The traffic safety program would assist
in improving road-user behavior, and reduce the number and seriousness of accidents, with
resulting social, economic, and environmental benefits. Furthermore, SCT has revised its highway
maintenance work specifications to control pollution from construction equipment and to improve
quarry management. SCT's Environmental Affairs Unit will provide guidance on environmental
impact assessments of transport projects.
H. Project Risks
5.27   The main risks are of inadequate budget allocations for HRRM  and of resource
misallocations in future years. At present, sector financing needs have to be balanced against
macroeconomic considerations and unmet needs in other areas are also pressing. Hence
achievement of sector goals has to be assessed in the broader context of overall policy
achievements. To mitigate these risks, confirmation of the Government's intentions with respect
to road maintenance strategy and satisfactory agreements for 1993 were obtained at appraisal and
included in the Government's policy letter. Furthermore, the proposed annual reviews would
provide the Bank with an opportunity to verify if the future annual budgets are within the levels
set forth in the highway maintenance strategy. The successful implementation of the highway
maintenance strategy, of the pavement and bridge management systems, and of the proposed annual
review of SCT's road investments should provide the basis for making better-substantiated
decisions, and SCT technical staff would have the tools to argue with decision makers regarding
budget allocations. In addition, the expected improved macro-environment and improved fiscal
situation would mitigate this risk. There is also a risk of delays and changes in the institutional



44
strengthening programs in view of the change of administration in 1994 and the inherent difficulties
in getting an established institution such as DGCCOP to adopt a planning and strategic role and
to delegate the operational work to SCT's regional centers. To ensure commitment to objectives
and minimize these risks, project preparation was accomplished with active participation of
government officials and maximum possible up-front actions.
VI. AGREElENS REACuED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.1    During negotiations, agreement was reached or confirmed on the following:
(a)   the Government to carry out, by contract, at least 70% of the rehabilitation works
(para. 3.20);
(b)   the timetable and implementation targets for an action program to (i) formally
establish CGP before December 31, 1993, and to strengthen its capabilities
(para. 4.7(a)); (ii) implement the reorganization of DGCCOP (para. 4.7(b)); (iii)
develop and implement the highway maintenance management system
(para. 4.7(b)); (iv) continue the work of the cost recovery working group
(para. 4.7(d)); (v) enact and implement the vehicle size and weight regulations
(para. 4.7(e)); (vi) implement the training program (para. 4.7(h); (vii) implement
the HRRM program (para. 4.9); and (viii) implement the Traffic Safety
Component (para. 4.7(g));
(c)   the scope and content of the highway maintenance policy letter (para. 4.7(c));
(d)   the preparation of the annual HRRM program to be systematized and have
adequate balance between rehabilitation, resurfacing and routine maintenance (para.
4.7(c));
(e)   review with the Bank, by October 31 of each year, the budget proposals for the
following year, and by January of each year the HMRR budget for that fiscal year.
The Bank would not consider financing new subprojects under the loan, for any
given year, until it had been demonstrated that the budgetary allocations for
highway maintenance and rehabilitation are, for the year in question, reasonably
within the levels set forth in the 1993-96 HRRM Program and cover the
completion of Bank approved subprojects commenced in a prior fiscal year
(para. 4.7 (c));
(f)   the Government to continue to pursue its policy of ensuring adequate road user
charges, and submit to the Bank an annual report on the status of highway cost
recovery (para. 4.7 (d));
(g)   prepare by December 31 1994 a study on the road financing strategies and
mobilization options, and if the Bank and the Government agree on the suitability
of the study recommendations, submit by June 30, 1995 a satisfactory action plan
of strategies and measures to be adopted, and implement the plan thereafter
(para. 4.7(d));



45
(h)    Government to enact before December 31, 1993 the vehicle size and weight
regulation (para. 4.7(e));
(i)   the preparation of an annual report on the road traffic safety situation
(para. 4.7(g));
(j)   the proposed 1993-1996 HRRM Program (para. 4.9);
(k)    SCT to prepare and furnish to the Bank, by December 31 of each year, a summary
report assessing progress made in implementing the HRRM Program
(para. 4.9(a));
()    SCT to furnish to the Bank, by January 31 of each year, the estimated monthly
cash flow of HRRM expenditures for that year confirming that the majority of the
budgetary funds would be available to SCT during the first semester of the fiscal
year, and that an authorization (Oficio de Secas) to allow for starting of works has
been issued by SHCP (para. 4.9(b));
(m)   SCT to contract independent consultants to assist DGCCOP in the coordination of
the program and to provide technical assistance to work supervision teams
(para. 4.9(c));
(n)    subprojects related to highway rehabilitation should be evaluated and selected
following a methodology satisfactory to the Bank. Such subprojects should:
(i) have an ERR calculated in accordance with a method satisfactory to the Bank
of at least 25 % each, except for a portion of subprojects for which the accumulated
total investment does not exceed 10% of the budget for the year in which such
subprojects are being considered; subprojects in this category would require an
ERR greater than 12 % each; (ii) neither have negative environmental implications
nor require changes in the road alignment; (iii) have a structural design life of at
least 15 years in the case of highway rehabilitation subprojects; and (iv) have a
detailed economic analysis, for those subprojects on which traffic may be
influenced by the construction of a toll road. Such economic analysis should
consider the toll road and the proposed road as one system (para. 5.3);
(o)   the procurement arrangements (paras. 5.6 - 5.11);
(p)   the arrangements for project monitoring (para. 5.12); scope and timing of the
annual and mid-term reviews (para. 5.16) and scope and frequency of progress
reports (para. 5.17);
(q)   the accounts and auditing requirements (para. 5.18); and
(r)   the disbursement arrangements (para. 5.20).



46
B. Condition for Loan Effectivene
6.2   The Borrower and the Guarantor to enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank for the transfer of loan funds (para. 5.12).
C. Events of Default
6.3    A substantial change in the internal organization of SCI's General Directorate for Highway
Maintenance that could compromise its ability to carry out subprojects (para. 5.13).
D. Recommendations
6.4    On the basis of the foregoing agreements, the project would be suitable for a Bank Loan
of US$480 million equivalent for repayment in 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. Retroactive financing of up to US$30 million for the road
rehabilitation component and selected studies is recommended.



47
Chart 1-1: ORGANIZATION OF THE SECRETARIAT FOR COMMUNICATIONS AND TRANSPORT (SCT)
SECIETARY
Intemn l Cr_irio s on
-- -- -    -    - -- - Adminixtretion and
I   Programming
Substcr*tary for |        Subsecr:tary for 1        Subsecertery for  ||Administration and           intrna
Infrastructure            Opereti on            Co ici           nd c    Procurement Office        CoWtroler
l                    ~~~~~~T ehnicalDe  oen
Cenerat            Cemiesi   an                                        D C. for                  D G. for
Coordination      specifIetion and           D6. for Civil.           Communications               Finenc at
for          |  Unit Prices               Aeronautics             Standrds and                Reoure
Plenni ng                                                              Control
D C. for                                   D G  for Devotopment
D.G. for            maintenance of          D.G. for Federal    -   of Co.nunications             D.G. for
Legak Affairs          Public Works           Road Transport           and Information              Persorviel
D G. for    l         D.G.  for          0 .D. for Trnaport   -        D.6. for                  D.G  for
Pubilc Affairs        Federal Roads              Preventive             Transmission                Me
0     f.G or           D.6. for
Technich L Service   -      Ports and
Mirchcnt anne
Ports ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    |D      o  THf
Mexican ~ ~      ~     ~      |ReeedSrvc 
TFedrrns oighwy
Petrol 
SCT                                                                     Ser i'hvigctes 
Mexican
Ports
MeIxican
Institute for
Coe_i cat i ons
MOTE: D.6. Stand  for Directorate General
Somce:  SCT end Bank Staff
movwbor 1991



Chart 1-2: Oryanization of Secretariat for Communications and Transport (SCT)
General Coordination for PlanninZ
GENERAL COMINATIo
FOR PLAN1ING
| CWIATION UWIT--E-T-  PUNN-N- -           -  -  -  .      - -         SEGCTO  LMIN
1       GENERAL DIRECTORATE
FOR  PU_NNING                                                                             oo
ANALYSIS OF PFOGRWN                                 PNGAI OF OPERATIONS                                    INFOl"ATIU
Foruitation of       Proj
Plans and          Evaluation          Preinvestnent              Programs            Monitoring             Informtion and          Cartography         Administration
Enriirormntat          ethodology            Studies               Integration                                   Statistics
Affairs
Sczarc:   SCT's General Coordination for Planning
Noveber 1991



49
Chart 1-3: Highway Maintenance Organization
ExLh
OFFICE o  TII
Director of              Director             Director for
Specificotfonr              for               Progr_iing wnd             Dlretor
and Training             EquJpent              Evaluation               for Work
Sudiretor                                      S.hdirector             Subdirector             Suibireetor
for Nfghumy             Sihdirector            Systm  ord               for Works            Adrlnistration
SpeifitIest on            Tchn1icol             Evaluation              Sprvision
Subdirector            Suhdiretor             Subdirector
for Nlighwry               for                    for                 S*udfrector
Saintenwicel        Technical Control         Progrmning               for Works
Speci fication
Ibdi rector
for ED. W.
Od Permts
Iu director
for
studies
|Resident nZo |e
for int
(ePolley Conclderstotn)i
OFFIC OF TM
DIECTUm GEERAL
SiDiretor               k c  retor re               reo    |           Director                *Director
for Plfo Sup                     fnThni ff   f or rvisn  Tchnll   tor atn  |                     for
Evoluation   II Icd Controt                   Director  sInfortlon                             Anfstrctlonti
Sul tdirector   II Idrrector   Iubd I            r etorrtor   1dretor
fH                          for        I           or No *rm w           f  or             f  or Bugting
p tePlnning         g |      rvirfon   |    |p elctleotl |  X|               t_        |    g*r Actouting 
Su$difrector   1           u bd:r*etor           SubIdirector   1        ub direco     1         ub d1rector 
for Progrming                for                f for Studies              for                     for
and Evaluation             Control              and DOagn              Statistics    |esources
Departm_nt
for
Urban uiltdfing



I



Anex A
50                               Page 1 of 5
BANK EXPERIENCE AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Past Bank Involvement in the Highway Sector
1.    The Bank has been involved with the Mexican Highway Sector since 1960. It has made
a total of ten loans for the federal road system; the first seven of which were regular project
investments loans whereas the last three were sector investment loans. In addition, the Bank has
made a loan to improve the rural roads system in the state of Chiapas, and a Road Transport and
Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Loan which supported, on the transport side, Mexico's
policy of deregulating highway transport services. This annex reviews the experiences of the ten
loans to the federal road system and the road transport component of the Road Transport and
Telecommunications Sector Adjustment Project.
2.    The first six loans Ooan numbers, titles, amounts and status are shown in Table A. 1) can
be summarized as follows: The first and second toll road projects financed the foreign exchange
costs of the construction of 385 kIm, and 350 km, respectively, of toll roads. Although delays of
2-1/2 and 2 years respectively occurred in execution, the projects were completed satisfactorily.
The other four loans financed construction or improvement of some 3,150 km, 6,000 km, 2,200
kln, and 1,000 km of federal highways which, together with the toll roads, represented more than
one third of the system length. Most of these projects were completed with insignificant changes
in project scope, but suffered from substantial delays caused by slow counterpart allocations and
cost overruns due to insufficient detailed engineering, design changes during construction, and
inflation. Only in the Third Highway Project did the Bank insist on detailed engineering. Plans
had to be completed before loan negotiations, and cost overruns were reduced accordingly. Also,
more emphasis was placed on following Bank guidelines for procurement in this project.
3.    The Seventh Highway Project (1974) had a somewhat different thrust. While the financing
focus remained firmly on construction, the thrust of discussions and agreements during appraisal
went beyond engineering concerns and covered transport sector planning and regulatory practices
in the sector. The US$90 million loan provided for construction of 12 new roads (1,670 kim), and
the widening of a further 200 km of existing roads. As in previous projects, overruns and delays
were mainly due to a shortage of local funds, inflation and in this case, to the timing of the project
two years before a change of administration. Thus, the project was scaled down to 1,216 km.
4.    The First and Second Sector Projects and the Highway Maintenance Project moved away
from financing specific roads to assisting with the SAHOP multiyear highway development
programs. In the First Project, the Bank envisaged financing about 45 % of the foreign exchange
cost of eligible subprojects in SAHOP's 1979-82 program Oater extended to 1984). This objective
was largely achieved, although the project was characterized by high cost overruns of individual
subprojects and by few completed works. Under the Second Sector Project, the Bank expected to
finance approximately 12% of the 1984-86 'time slice" (37% of the foreign exchange cost of
eligible subprojects) of the 1984-88 program. Instead, the loan was fully disbursed in 1991 against
works included in the 1983 to 1991 fiscal years of SCI. The Highway Maintenance Project was
fashioned to support SCT's 1987-1991 federal highway maintenance program, but suffered initial
delays of about two years. A process was introduced under the First Sector Project for joint
SAHOP/Bank budgetary consultations. These were undertaken informally butunder the subsequent
projects more structured annual reviews were introduced in which Bank inputs to the highway
sector programming process were recognized and accepted. Procurement procedures were also
brought into closer agreement with Bank practice under the Second Sector Project and the Highway
Maintenance Project. The latter project has focused on increasing the maintenance budgets and
on introducing the contracting of maintenance activities.



Pare 2  f 5                                     51
Table A-1: Past a    Ongoing Opratom  In the Highway Sector
-                                                                                          -
I-M
LOa No.   Board         Anoint          Name of                                          Yew
D_ _    OM  MEW             Projec            Mai COMpome               Cmpleted
268-ME      10/60        25.0      iPir Highway    Conicc of 3,150 km of                 1968
Project         feder highways
317-ME      06/62        30.5        First Toll Road   Construction of 385 km of l       1967
Projet          road., S bridges and
PrOCI      of frry boat
354-ME      09/63        40.0        Swoond           Consiruct  of 6,000 km of          1972
Highway         fderal highways and
project         puorm  of nis_atnc
401-ME      02/65        32.0        Sewond Toll      Cosuctioa of 350 km of toll        1970
Road Proect     roads and 3 toll bridges
523-MB      01/68        27.5        Third Highway    Consmuto of 2,200 km of            1973
projet          federal highwys
695-ME      06/70        21.8        Powthi Higbway   Consudion of 1,040 km of           1977
;P-             foderal highways
968-MB      03n4         90.0        Sevedh           Conucdou of 1,216 km of            1977
Highway         federal hihways Cluding
1671-MB     03/79        120.0       Highway Seor   A program to                         1984
l~~~~~~~~~~rjc                                m _odoieupovo ad,
constrc nmajor bridges, road
infrasuchir to two pos and
by.pasm
2428-ME    05/84         200.0       Second           A progran of                       1991
Highway Sector   comb -uctou/rsucon,
rehabltatdion and anyrvanet
ad tchnicd asistune
2525-ME    04/85          22.0       Chiapas Rural    Co aiucto  of 1,00 km of
Road            nra road. and reconuction of    Cnceled
2,000 km
2875-MB     10/87        135.0       Highway          Ra  r_d&abation of
Mainono.         about 6,000 km of roa  and       ngoing
Project          urfco  treatmunt of about 5,000
km of ro.a
Source:  ank saff. Febuay 1993



Annex A
52                               Page 3 of 5
5.    The Third, Fourth and Seventh Highway Projects, and the First Sector Project, have been
the subjects of PCRs and PPARs. The PPAR for the Third Highway Project noted that delays in
completion and cost ovrtuns were not avoided, but were smaller than in the previous four
projects. The Fourth Highway Project PPAR noted that strong inflationary pressure, together with
an overvaluation of the peso, led to a reduced Bank disbursement percentage from 33% to 18%.
Problems with budgetary allocations led to the three-year delay in project completion. It also
observed that close linkage of Bank financing to specific large projects makes project execution
vulnerable to local budgetary constraints. The PPAR on the Seventh Highway Project noted in
particular that project execution was delayed and that sharp increases in costs with an inadequately
expanded budget led to a significantly reduced project scope, but also concluded that the
construction/development of the roads which eventually formed the project remained economically
justified. The PCR on the First Highway Sector Project concluded that while the project achieved
certain key objectives, such as flexibility and quick disbursement, Bank supervision resources were
reduced excessively compared with those devoted to traditional projects and the project did not
provide an adequate mechanism for discussion of institutional topics, such as cost recovery, road
transport regulations and investment planning. It also noted that substantial real cost increases
occurred, for a variety of reasons, including design changes and cost underestimation (in particular
cases such as the two major bridges). Less than half the contracts financed by the loan were
completed when funds were fully disbursed.
B. Main Isu  and Lmsous
6.    Despite the span of 27 years between the First Highway Project (Loan 268-ME) and the
Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2875-ME), and the diverse macroeconomic, inflationary and
exchange rate experiences of the Mexican economy, there are common features in all projects.
The analysis below reviews these features up to and including the Highway Maintenance Project
and examines some of the underlying factors. It also looks at the changes in approach that first
appeared under the Seventh Highway Project and were built upon during the three sector
investment loans. These changes would be further developed and consolidated in the proposed
project.
7.    Physical  plentdion of the Projects. Practically all projects were forecast to be
completed in four years from appraisal. None achieved this objective and there was no indication
of systematic improvement over the period; the first project was completed 3-1/2 years behind
schedule and the Second Highway Sector Project three years late. The underlying causes were not
the physical capability of the implementing agencies (SAHOP/SCT), to undertalke the work. Rather
the PCRs and Audit Reports consistently show that the delays were caused by slow counterpart
allocations and cost overuns due to insufficiently detailed engineering, changes in the scope of
works during construction, delays and inflation.
8.    The main reason for the slow counterpart allocations was SCT's lack of incentives to use
the Bank loan proceeds. The situation improved in 1990 when the new administration decided to
link budgetary disbursements to the execution of Bank financed projects. This decision speeded
up the completion of the Second Highway Sector Project, which was three years behind schedule.
As a result, about 50% of the disbursements were made in the last two years of project
implementation. The ongoing Highway Maintenance Project is expected to be completed by mid
1993, in accordance with the original closing date.



Ann"c A
Page 4 of 5                            53
9.    Among the seven project investment loans, only the Third Highway Project achieved some
success in reducing cost overruns because the Bank insisted that detailed engineering had to be
completed before loan negotiations. The Second Highway Sector and the Highway Maintenance
Project drew on the experience of the First Sector Loan and earlier projects. Although delays and
overruns persisted, about 80% of the subprojects financed under the Second Sector Project were
completed within the loan disbursement period and the cost overruns of those subprojects were
substantially less than in previous projects.
10.   The main lessons drawn from the physical implementation of the projects show the need
to ensure (i) an obligatory link between disbursements of Bank proceeds and execution of the
agency budget; (ii) adequate annual budgetary allocation of funds for ongoing and committed
subprojects, before any agreement is made to include new subprojects for Bank financing; and (iii)
completion of detailed engineering of a substantial part of the project before loan negotiations.
11.   Institutional Strengthening. Although the Bank's sector reviews (1964, 1966, 1969, 1971
and 1975) all emphasized the problems of institutional structure and regulatory policies, the
Government was not receptive to these issues. The Bank tended to take a passive stance on lending
and to focus narrowly on construction. Loan conditionality was mainly designed to deal with
assurances related to the implementation of civil works. However, within the framework of the
Seventh Project, as noted in para. 3, the Bank moved away from this focus and stressed transport
sector planning and transport regulation. In this respect, the 1974 Seventh Project was a turning
point. This broadening of the scope of Bank involvement led to consideration of, and eventual
adoption of, a sector approach to highway lending in Mexico.  The corresponding loan
conditionality stressed highway economics and planning.
12.   The First Highway Sector Project, approved in 1979, did not address wider sector issues
or policy matters, but yearly budget consultations were instituted to integrate the Bank into
SAHOP's planning process and to support improvements in budgetary coordination, program
composition and project selection. The project was also successful in providing greater flexibility
in its implementation, quick disbursements and reduced Bank staff requirements.
13.   After 1982, with the change of administration and the Government interest focused on
stabilizing the economy, the Bank's role changed, concentrating on improving institutional
organization. With the merging of scr and SAHOP and the increased macroeconomic importance
of the Bank loans during an extended period of lack of access to alternative sources of financing
and severe recession, institutional issues were addressed. As a result, the new Mexican
administration began directing more of its resources to improve operational efficiency in the
transport sector.
14.   Execution of the Second Highway Sector Project (Loan 2428-ME) proceeded more
smoothly than the previous highway project, pardy due to lessons learned and progress made under
the first project. On the institutional side, both the second Sector Project and the Highway
Maintenance Project under execution, provided the initial basis for (i) discussion of the importance
of increasing the proportion of highway maintenance expenditures relative to those for construction
and of insuring that adequate financing be provided during the annual budget cycle; (ii)
encouraging the Government to improve both programming of works and preparation of
multiannual budget projections; (iii) revisions of SCT's procurement practices; and (iv) tying
expenditures for externally funded projects to budgetary disbursements of the implementing agency.



Annex A
54                               Page 5 of 5
15.   Similarly to the Seventh Highway Project, the Highway Maintenance Project ran into initial
difficulties due to shortages of local funds and the timing of the project, two years prior to a
change in administration. These problems have been corrected and its implementation is
proceeding smoothly. A substantial part of this project was implemented simultaneously with the
Second Highway Sector Loan. Therefore, the project contributed to the institutional dialogue
mentioned in para. 14 above. The project has also been instrumental in (i) introducing the concept
of computerized highway maintenance and bridge management systems; (ii) providing for greater
participation of the private sector through maintenance contracting and improvement of
procurement practices; and (iii) involving the different branches of SHCP in the discussions
regarding the need for additional allocations and better efficiency in the use of allocated resources.
16.   Implementation of major deregulation measures, under the road transport component of the
Sector Adjustment Project, have contributed effectively to the increase of entry, diversity of
services and price reduction of road freight transportation. In addition, cost recovery has improved
significantly and road maintenance expenditures have been increased.
17.   The Bank's shift to sector investment loans gave greater flexibility and independence to the
Borrower and gave the Bank greater influence over sector policies and economic management. The
first two sector loans, however, may have been premature as with hindsight it becomes clear that
the Borrower was not prepared to handle a sector loan as expected by the Bank. The overruns,
extensive delays and slow completion of several subprojects financed under the two sector loans,
indicate that the respective authorities did not at the time have the capability to manage the project
effectively. Thanks to close Bank supervision, the results of the Second Sector Loan were more
encouraging, with more completions and few overruns for the subprojects initiated during the
project period, although problems arose due to insufficient detailed engineering and changes in
project scope.
18.   The overall conclusion on the institutional side is that, after slow, halting and sometimes
faulty starts, the Bank has become progressively more effective in dealing with institutional
matters. The experience with the three sector investment loans shows that implementation of
institutional measures is a long-term process and that up-front conditionality of certain actions and
intense participation of Government officials during the project preparation phase is very effective
in speeding up the process.
19.   Worldwide Experience. Maintenance of road infrastructure has been a major target of
Bank analyses, studies, sector work and lending for at least 25 years. Over the years, the Bank
gradually widened the scope, depth and complexity of maintenance remedies. Nowadays, the
maintenance issue figures prominently in Bank decisions for highway sector lending, and most
sector operations aim at preservation of road investments. Bank maintenance efforts were shaped
by two policy papers, one issued in 1979, and the other in 1988. Among the guiding principles
exposed in the two policy papers were: recognition that costs of maintenance neglect can be
extremely high, and need for national balancing of new road construction and road maintenance.
Also, maintenance is now often part of the macro-economic dialogue, the ultimate and broadest
platform for Government-Bank interaction.
20.   However, despite much Bank attention to the maintenance issue, overall results have been
disappointing, leading the Bank to predict that road repair bills of staggering proportions are
building up in its client countries and that the situation will worsen unless maintenance attitudes,
policies and actions are fundamentally changed. The proposed project design takes these findings
into account. During preparation, Government recognition of the high cost of maintenance neglect
and the need for allocating sufficient, continuous and stable maintenance budgets was achieved and
taken into account in the project design. The project also includes a reorganization of SCT's
Maintenance Directorate that seeks to separate its strategic and operational work.



Annex B
Page 1 of 9                            55
TRAINING PROGRAM
Introduction
1. The 1989-1994 National Development Plan (Plan Nacional de Desarrollo) emphasizes the
importance of and need for training in the public sector. To fulfill this objective, the current SCT
administration is strengthening its training organization and its training program scope. As a first
step, SCT directorates were asked to prepare diagnostic reports on their training needs; shortly
after that, the Directorate General for Training (DGCS) (Chart B-1), was created and a training
commission presided by the Secretary was appointed to coQrdinate SCT's overall training needs.
Subcommittees were formed at all directorates to serve as links with DGCS and the Commission.
Training needs are now consolidated annually by DGCS through the above process, resulting in
better formulated training programs.
2.  Between 1987 and 1991, SCT implemented an incentiveprogram aimed at reducing its work
force; during that period, the General Directorate for Maintenance (DGCCOP) reduced the work
force in its regional offices by about 37%. Staff reduction and turnover call for the continuance
and strengthening of the training efforts within SCT and in particular of the training program
initiated under the ongoing Highway Maintenance Project (Loan 2875-ME). Furthermore, there
is a need to expand the training efforts to other areas within SCT.
3.  The training program to be financed by this project is aimed at three SCT directorates:
Planning (DGP), Maintenance (DGCCOP), and Land Transport (DGI'1). Organizationally, DGP
reports directly to the Secretary, DGCCOP to the Infrastructure Subsecretariat, and DGTT to the
Operations Subsecretariat.
4.  Through discussions held with DGCCOP's training unit, it was established that training should
continue to be provided on equipment operation and maintenance, on-the-job training of road
maintenance engineers and work crews, improving the performance of field foremen and work
crew chiefs, bridge maintenance and road and bridge planning and programming, and that the
training program should be expanded to include other topics such as contract administration,
pavement design, quality control and supervision of road works.
5.  Training at DGP will center on matters related to transport planning, project evaluation,
statistical analysis, and data bank design and administration. Regarding DGTT, training efforts
are to be directed to the preparation of licensing and vehicle inspection instructors, vehicle
inspectors, supervisors, and examiners; and instruction in automotive mechanics will be provided
to vehicle inspection personnel. General training in technical report writing and English will be
provided to a limited number of staff.
6.  The training component is described in the following sections. It is felt that its scope and
coverage will support SCT's efforts to provide adequate training to its staff. The program also
envisages the procurement of equipment and the supply of training materials to aid both formal and
on-the-job training.



56                                            Page 2 of 9
Chart B-1: SCT's General Directorate for Training
IERAL DIRECTOR
FCR TRAININM
Director '     h                              
Assistant                                       Assis Itant             Assistant             Assistant
D I rector                                      D i rector              DIrector 1cDirector
Progr_                                    _    Operat I ons        _    Training              A dmlnistration
foni tori ng                                                            Technology
Program                  Extenion               Diagnosis &             Promotion &            Financial
MonitorIng               Training               Programming             Diffusion              Resources
Department               Deprtmnt               Department              Departmnt              Department
Central SCT   |                             l     Programs     l    |  Training                Humn
Coordinattlort                            _ Inptementation         q    Systom                Resources
Departmnt                                     Cont. Department          Department             Department
Monitoring &  |         DocwLnts *   1        Supplies
-   Evaluation    I           Information   I       Departmnt
Department    j         Department



Annex B
Page 3 of 9                               57
Objectives and Scope
7.  The major objectives of the project's training component to be undertaken over the four year
period (1993-1996) can be summarized as follows:
(a)  to strengthen the capabilities of SCT's personnel, both at headquarters and in the
regional units (Centros SCT), in all areas of highway rehabilitation and maintenance;
main beneficiary: DGCCOP;
(b)  to improve the performance of SCT's personnel in the areas of transport/highway
planning, specifications, contract administration, project supervision, quality control,
etc.; main beneficiaries: DGP and DGCCOP;
(c)  to strengthen the capabilities of SCT's personnel in the areas of driver licensing and
vehicle inspection in order to improve overall traffic safety; main beneficiary: DGTI;
and
(d)  to equip the training facilities at the SCT regional centers (31) and at DGTT to allow
for adequate basic training activities;
8.  Since the three directorates have different training needs, the program is presented in two
parts: training needs of DGP and DGCCOP, which will be addressed jointly, and those of DGTT.
The proposed 1993-1996 DGP/DGCCOP training program under the project would reach about
5,256 participants over the 4-year period as shown in the table below, and that for DGTT would
reach about 3,184 participants. This table will be used as a monitoring indicator for the
implementation of the training component.
Directorates    |   193 1|               1995       1996      Total
DGPIDGCCOP
(a) professional       880       850       780        670       3,180
(b) technical          200       200        50         50         500
(c) field              424       424       384        344       1,576
Sub-Totals          1,504     1,474      1,214      1,064      5,256
DGIT
(a) supervisors         53       37         37         37         164
(b) instructors         53        37        37         37         164
(c) examiners          182       128       128        128         566
(d) inspectors         820       490       490        490       2,290
Sub-Totals          1,108      692        692        692       3,184
TOTALS           2.612     _                    _           LIM



Annex B
58                              Page 4 of 9
Description
9.  The 1993-1996 training program has been defined in the context of the objectives pursued
under the proposed project, taking into account also the need to continue supporting the training
provided under Loan 2875-ME. DGCS, with the assistance of each of the beneficiaries, has
identified the overall training needs of DGP, DGCCOP and DGTT. The portion of these needs
to be financed under this project was then established with Bank assistance.
10. The DGP/DGCCOP training program will consolidate the efforts initiated under Loan 2875-
ME and would expand its scope to include the training needs of DGP. The proposed training
program will then consist of (a) 20 and 40-hour (three and five days, respectively) modules to be
provided by internal and extemal instructors, with an average attendance of 20 to 30 persons per
module. A minimum of 25 % on-the-job training will supplement the formal instruction. Training
to be in-house; (b) training at universities and other training institutes. A limited number of
courses outside SCT's training facilities but within Mexico will be provided to take advantage of
courses open to the public at-large; (c) round-table seminars to be organized by SCT and held twice
a year at various locations within Mexico; (d) short study/observation visits to foreign countries
and projects within Mexico, to benefit from specialized training; and (e) attendance at seminars and
conferences within Mexico. Limited funding will be set aside to finance graduate studies abroad
for a few participants.
11. The DGTT training program will consist of (a) 20-hour (three-day) modules to be provided
by external and internal instructors, with an average attendance of 20 persons per module. This
formal training will be supplemented, to a very large extent, with on-the-job training. All training
to be in-house; (b) attendance at seminars and conferences within Mexico; and (c) trips to foreign
countries to attend conferences or to exchange experiences with similar organizations in other
countries.
12. Under the project, financing will also be provided to equip the training facilities, to develop
short-course training modules and their implementation during the life of the project, and to acquire
and/or produce training material.
Organization, Monitoring and Reporting
13. The overall training coordination under the project will be the responsibility of DGCS.
DGCCOP's training unit will be responsible for (a) planning, organizing, implementing and
monitoring DGCCOP's and DGP's training program; (b) establishing agreement with external
training agencies; and (c) evaluating the results of the training programs. Similarly, DGTT, with
the assistance of the Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance (United States, Canada and Mexico), will
undertake those activities within that directorate.
14. The training targets by subject area and number of trainees by year are detailed in
Table B-1, (DGP/DGCCOP), and Table B-2, (DGT. For monitoring purposes, DGCS will
receive from each training unit every four months a report which DGCS will consolidate and send
to DGCCOP for its inclusion in the project progress report. DGCS will prepare the contents and
format of the report at the outset of the training program in consultation with both training units
and the Bank.



59
Pag$ Of 9                           Table B-1: DGP/DGCCOP Tmiai   Program t1993-196
1993          p994           19       I    1995         TOTAL
ThAIUVOG AM AM
________________ __________    PM    V  A u I  M      A      Ph     A       Ph     A      H      A
1. Pnt0limI  Stdr                       45     SOD    44    S30       41     760    37    760   167   3280
1. Road Maimma_e Eqaipr
Ad umio (40 b-) 2I                  4      40     4      40      4       40     4     40    16    160
2. Road & Bridge Maict.mm
Adin mtio(40 bu)                    4      S0     4      so      4       S0     4      S0    SO    320
3. Rood & Bridp M daamcse
Technoo( 2oh b)                     4      S0     4      S0       3      60     4      60    60    280
4. Plamiag, Progrming &
Budgeng (2o bn)                     3      90     3      90       3      90     3      90           270
5. Bidding & Codnc AdIministratio
(20o z)                             2      40     2      40      2       40     2      40    40     160
6. Cosin   Unit Prie  (40 kn)         5      100     5     100      4      S0            SD0   S0    360
7. Suevio  of Road Worb a(20 h)       4      S0     4      S0       4      S0     4      S0    30    320
S. Pavmmt Desip, Maintenanc &
Evahuioa (40 bn)                    4      40     4      40       4      40     4      40    40      160
9. Qualiy Cosrol (20 hrs)             4      S0     4      S0       4      S0     4      S0    S0    320
10. Pdncipls of Tranpon Planning
(20 lm)                             1      20      1     20       1      20     1      20    20      S0
11. Data Bnk Ad imiauui (40 In)        1      30     1      30                     I I                  60
12. Prjcst Evuutim Teh.kp             2      60      1     60       1       30     2     30    30    ISO
(2D hz)
13. Gometric Dip (40 hn)              2      40      2      40      2       40     2     40    40    160
14. Stadsicln Aaysis (2O bra)          1     20      1     20       1       1      I             -      60
15. Te icacl RAcot Witing (20 brs)    4       S0     4      sO      4       S0     4     sO    sO    320
U. Tecdki    Sta                        12    200    12   200         4       50     4      50    32    500
16. Road Mainteaca(2 bo)              4      40     4      40      3       30     3      30    14    140
17. LAborowy Techakqu (40 hn)         3      90     3      90       .             .             6     IS0
13. H_vy Equipmmen Maitsance
(20 hz)                            3      30      3     30                                   6      60
19. Co_puz. Scim_(20 hn)              2      40     2      40       1      20      1     20     6      120
m. Fkd Starf                             52    424    48    334        4t     34    44    344   192   1536
20. Havy Equipent M        _im e
(40 h )                            10    100      a      30      a      sO      4    40    30    300
21. H_qvy Equp_m  Opad-
(40 hb)                            10    100      8     sO       8       s0     I    S0    34    340
22. Road & BiMp Mal_ee
(40 hn)                            32    224    32    224       32     224    32   224   128    396
TOTAL (Ila adm)                      109    1504   104   1434       93    1214    35   1064   391   5216
J/ M: N    I  of coun  madeo of 20 hour wish atthndance of 20 person pwr _mWob.
Z  A.k Nuabu of pm- grant.
2/ Sbozt diedpio  of counm is availeble il projed fil.



AnLex B
60                                       Page 6 of 9
Table W2: DGTT Training Program (1993-1996)
1s93         1994           1995           1996      1993-1996
TRAINING AREAS                   M it A v   M   A    M   A                   M   A   M   A
1. Licensing Department                 8    160     8    160       8    160       8   160    32    640
- Instructor Training (20 hrs) 3/    1     17      1     17      1      17      1    17      4    68
- Supervisor Training (2o hrs)       1     17      1     17      1      17      1    17      4    68
- Examniner Training (20 hrs)        6    126     6    126       6    126       6   126    24   504
11. Vehicle Inspection                 35    709    26    521      26    521      26   521   113  2272
Department
- Instructor Trainng (20 hrs)        1     19     1      19      1      19      1    19      4     76
- Supervisor Training (20 hrs)       1     19     1      19      1      19      1    19      4    76
- Inspector Traimng (20 hrs)        17    349     8    161       8    161       8   161    41    832
- Diesel Mechanics (20 hrs)          8    161     8    161       8    161       8   161    32    644
- Electicity (20 hrs)                8    161     8    161       8    161       8   161    32   644
111. Lcense/lnspection                 12    239     1      11      1      L1      1    11    15   272
Departments
- Technical Report Writing          11    228                                               11   228
(20 brs)
- English Training Language          1     11      1     11      1      11      1    11      4    44
(ongoing) 4I
TOTALS (A+B+C)                    a    1108    35    692       a     69            692   160  3184
I/ M: Number of course modules of 20 hours with atendance of approximately 20 persons per module.
I/ A: Number of persons atending.
_/ Short description of courses in project file.
4/ Englsh language traing will be provided during working hours for about 2 hours per week.
Cost
15. The cost of the training program includes: equipment, course support expenses, formal training
courses, the cost of attendance at conferences and seminars, and study visits both in Mexico and
abroad. It is estimated at US$2.4 million (Table B-3). This cost is made up of the DGP/DGCCOP
training component, whose cost is estimated at US$1.7 million (Table B4); and that of the DGTT
component, which is about US$0.7 million (Table B-5).



Annex B
Page 7 of 9                                 61
Table B-3: Training Program (1993-1996) Cost Summary
(ITousands of U.S. Dollars)
ITEMS                  1993       1994       1995      1996       Total
1.  Equipment                      84.1        5.0        5.0       5.0        2291
- DGP/DGCCOP                   64.1         -          -         -        64.1
- DGTT                         20.0       5.0        5.0       5.0        35.0
II. Course Support                173.3      134.3       19.3      16.5       343.4
- DGP/DGCCOP                  163.3     124.3        9.3       6.5       303.4
- DGTT                         10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0        40.0
m. Formal Training Program        450.0      373.0      328.8    298.8       1450.6
- DGP/DGCCOP                  283.0     266.0      221.8    191.8        962.6
- DGIT                        167.0     107.0       107.0    107.0       488.0
IV. Conferences, Seminars and
Study Trips                   148.6      139.9     136.0    116.0        540.5
- DGP/DGCCOP                  108.6      99.9       96.0      76.0       380.5
- DGTr                        40.0       40.0       40.0      40.0       160.0
TOTALS                        au         C5.2       49        433
- DGPIDGCCOP                 619.0      490.2      327.1    274.3       1710.6
- DGTT                       237.0      162.0       162.0    162.0       723.0
Excludes physical contingencies.



Annex B
62                                       Page 8 of 9
Table B-4: DGPIDGCCOP Training Prognam Cost
(uhosuands of U.S. Dollars)
1TEMS                      1993       1994       199S       1996       Total
I. EquipmentY'                            OAI           -          -          -       M
- Audiovisual Equipment                 64.1          -          -          -       64.1
II. Course Supporty                       163.3     124.3         9.3       6.5       303.4
- Training Material                   103.3       64.3        9.3        6.5      183.4
- Consultant Services                  60.0       60.0          -          -      120.0
m. Formal Training Programy               283.0      266.0      2218       1a"         962.6
- Professional Staff Courses          170.5      165.5      151.0      133.0      620.0
- Technical Staff Courses              38.1       38.1        8.4        8.4       93.0
- Field Staff Courses                  74.4       62.4       62.4       50.4      249.6
IV. Conferences, Seminars & Study         108.6      9.9        9.         76.0       380.5
Trips1!-
- Within Mexico                        60.0       60.0       56.1       56.1      232.2
- Iternational                         48.6       39.9       39.9       19.9       148.3
TOTALS                                619.0      490.2     37         2fl        VIZL
1/  Equipment needs will be limited to 5 overhead projectors and 20 sund equipment units for claroom use.
21   Course material, software programs, acquisition and prepartion of ovechead lides and outside aitanc   for
preparation of courses.
3/   Formal training program costs include: per diem, outsid instructors fee, photocopies, transportation and other
iscellaneous expense. Total cost of 20-hour cours is estmed at US$3,000.00 and that of a 40-hour course at
US$5,000.00. Number of couirs (modules) and number of attendants can be soen in Table B-1.
4/   Cost of attendance at confrces and seinars within Mexico an of study trips abroad. Some S0 persons will
benfit over the 4-year period.



Annex A
Page 9 of 9                                     63
Table B": DGTI Train     Program  Cost
(ousands of U.S. Dollars)
ITEMS                        199      1994       1995      1996    Total
I.  Equipmentl'               S.                           L. 5. S.
- Office Furniture                         7.0        5.0       5.0      5.0     22.0
- Audiovisual Equipment                   13.0        -         -        -       13.0
II. Course Support                             1Q.0       1                  100      4Au
- Training Material                       10.0       10.0      10.0    10.0      40.0
m. Formal Training Program                    167.0    107.        107.    107.0   48
- 20-hour modules                        162.0      102.0     102.0   102.0   468.0
- Ongoing language training                5.0        5.0       5.0      5.0     20.0
TV. Conferences, Seminars & Study Trips4       40.0      MQ.0       40.0    DA.   1=
- Within Mexico                           15.0       15.0      15.0    15.0      60.0
- International                           25.0      25.0       25.0    25.0    100.0
TOTALS (I+H+II+IV)                          ,       j,3       J,    j3 
L/  Equipment needs will be limited to: office furniu  (chairs, deob, filing cabies, backboard., ec.), four adio-
vial equipment unit (VHS equimnt and montor.), and one VHS video camera.
2/   Course mterial, software progrms, acquisition and prepaion of oveshead sld  an outside a00slne for
preparation of course.
3/   Formal muim  program coat include: per diem, outside itucors feos, hooopeos,  paao o and olb e
niscellaneous expenses. Totsl cost of 20-hour module is eated at US$3,000.00. ThO ongoing languae uaining is
estimted to coat US$5,000.00/year.
4/   Cost of atendance at conferences and seminars widiin Mexico ad of ndy t*   nd coofnoe abroad.



Aum C
64                                Page l of 6
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE ACCOUNTS BALANCE AND ROAD USER CHARGES
1.    This annex summarizes the results of two exercises which address questions related to the
recovery from users of highway system costs in Mexico. The data sources and road networks
referred to are different in each exercise, so the results are not diredy comparable.  The
conclusions from both exercises are however similar, providing additional confidence to them. The
first analysis, a Highway Maintenance Accounts Balance, was carried out by the government to
determine whether, in an accounting sense, an appropriate balance is being struck between the costs
of road maintenance and rehabilitation and government revenues from the road transport sector.
No distinction was made between general revenues and those which are generally considered to be
specific road user charges.
2.    The second analysis, a Highway Maintenance User Charge Balance, had a similar but
different objective. It was designed to compare the charges to users of the federal highway
network, in addition to taxes to generate treasury revenue, with the costs of maintenance and
rehabilitation of this network. This analysis therefore made use of the more familiar road user
charge criteria, and assessed the extent to which marginal road costs are recovered from different
classes of users. This analysis draws on a 1992 study prepared by SCT, updated by Bank staff.
3.    A working group, coordinated by SHCP and composed of representatives from SHCP,
SCT, SPP, BANOBRAS, and INT was formed in July 1991 to consider these issues. It developed
the first methodology outlined below, and is charged with updating this annually. A Bank
consultant assisted and guided the group. SHCP, supported by this working group, will be
responsible for a more comprehensive analysis of road financing issues to be carried out with the
support of the project.
Highway Maintenance Accounts Balan
4.    Methodology. The methodology for presenting an assessment of road cost recovery was
based on three models.Y' The first two models approach the problem from the point of view of
the Government of Mexico, while the third takes as its point of view the society as a whole. For
all three models, the highway system includes all inter-city highways and roads, a total of about
200,000 km. Urban and municipal roads and streets are excluded.
5.    Model 1. The first model is a simple accounting of revenues and disbursements (collected
from published government documents). The revenues were all those collected by taxes and direct
charges to highway users, including those collected by CAPUFE (tolls). The costs were those
actually incurred by the government for highway maintenance, rehabilitation, administration, and
modernization. Construction costs were not included. The results of this model show the
difference between accounting revenues and disbursements. Examination of Table C-1 reveals that
income exceeded expenditures in all of the years considered.
6.    The revenues of this model were derived from five main sources. The value added tax
(IVA); the income tax (ISR); an excise tax on production and services levied on fuel (IEPS); taxes
1/  An additional model simulated the effect of increasing fuel prices to internaionl levels. Since fuel prices are now
near (diesel) or above (gasoline) intrnational levels, this model is no longer relevant, and is not ilusuat*ed here.



Page 2 of 6                            65
on vehicle ownership and acquisition; and tolls from the CAPUFE network. The WA and ISR
were taken from the Government of Mexico Treasury (SHCP) accounts. Because this information
was based on aggregate figures, it was necessary to multiply the aggregates by a factor that
depended on the participation of the highway sector in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The
factor was calculated by dividing the total expenditures on highways, not including construction,
for any given year, by the total of the GDP for that year. For IEPS the amount attributable to the
highway system was proportional to the amount of gasoline and diesel used by highway vehicles
divided by the total amount of fuels produced. It came to 71.1%. The revenues from the first
four sources were adjusted by a factor relating the proportion of interurban to urban vehicular use.
7.    The expenditures by the Government of Mexico are shown in Table C-1 for this model.
The source of information is again the public Treasury accounts. The items are those of the trunk
system, feeder highways, rural roads, CAPUFE, highway police, and Preventive Medicine for
Transport.
8.    Model 2. This model compares the same revenues as in the first model with "desirable"
maintenance costs. Desirable costs are those that would have served to keep the system in normal
condition. These are based on an SCT model which derives the required costs of maintenance,
rehabilitation, and modernization of the highway system. The outputs are shown in Table C-1.
Except for 1990, when receipts from fuel taxation did not keep up with inflation, total revenues
would have been sufficient to cover costs required to keep the system in normal condition, if these
had been so allocated.
Table C-1: Highway Cost Accounts Balance
Results Models 1 and 2
N$ million (February 1993)
1989          1990           1991
1. Income                     7,879          5,753          6,671
2. Actual Expenditures         1,189         2,413          2,573
3. Difference                 6,690          3,340          4,098
US$ million equivalent         2,153         1,077          1,322
Modl 2
4. Income                     7,879          5,753          6,671
5. Desirable Exps.            7,787          6,728          6,539
6. Difference                    92           -975           132
US$ million equivalent           30           -314            43
Source: SHCP "Cargos a Usuarios de Carreteras" February 1993, with costs and
revenues updated to February 1993.



Anex C
66                               Page 3 of 6
9.    Model 3. The point of view of this model is the society of Mexico. The cost and benefit
relationships among the society of Mexico, the Government of Mexico-not the same as the society
of Mexico-and the highway system  were examined.   Social costs, such as accidents,
contamination, and congestion, were also considered, as well as how concessionaires entered into
cost recovery. Unfortunately, so little data was available that Model Three could not be quantified.
It remains for future consideration by the working group.
10.   Under this conceptual framework, which is illustrated in Figure C-1, three entities are
considered: the Government of Mexico, the highway system, and the society of Mexico. The
Government of Mexico in this case means the federal, not state authorities. The highway system
is defined as highway users plus the physical works that compose it. The society of Mexico is
composed of all groups and persons within Mexico. Thus both the Government of Mexico and the
highway system are shown within the line bounding the society of Mexico. Transfer payments-
taxes on automobile ownership, for example are shown as an arrow beginning in the highway
system and ending in the Government of Mexico. A true cost to the society is shown crossing the
institutional line that bounds the society. For example, air pollution, caused by the vehicles using
the highway system, is shown as an arrow that crosses both the boundary lines of the highway
system and the society of Mexico.
11.   Transfer payments are shown as dashed arrows. True costs are shown as solid arrows.
The more important costs are depicted. Some costs are shown more than once. For example, the
vehicle operating cost (VOC) is shown as a payment from the highway system to the society of
Mexico and from the society to the system. Thus the cost of a tire will appear in these arrows as
transfers. The tire cost will also appear as a solid arrow beginning at the system, crossing both
institutional boundaries, as a true cost, part of the solid arrow called "highway costs."
Figure C-1: Cost Diagram
7 7    8
. Highway             Oftur f   
Soe Examples of SocieWfalCsts
2. HJghvro expejzdltur--
3. TaX.. & tolls
4. Automobilo ineuraneo
5. CAP UFS toll.
6. Tolls paid to con cossionar2ie
7 Highway coats (phy.. & Oport.)
8. Accidont costs
O. ZooJogical coats
10. Con tamin- i2on
1. Congeation



Anne c
Page 4 of 6                             67
Highway Maintenance User Charge Balance
12.   This analysis assesses the extent to which different classes of road users contribute to the
cost of the federal highway system. The federal highway system including toll roads under
CAPUFE, comprises about 47,000 kIm, only 23 % of the route length of the network included in
the Accounts Balance Models. It is estimated that 62% of total inter-urban vehicle-km can be
attributed to this network. The analysis is based in large part on a study carried out by SCT's
Planning Directorate following the "Nota metodologica del estudio de cargos a usuarios del sistema
carretero nacional". The analysis was modified by Bank staff based on most recent data available
on road user charge receipts (in particular those from fuel taxes and a new "voluntary" tax on
truckers). The analysis reflects conditions prevailing in early 1993. It thus captures an important
real increase in gasoline prices implemented in 1992. Thus, the order of magnitude of receipts
should not be directly compared with the previous excercise, which covered 1989-1991.
13.   Costs.  Two categories of highway preservation were illustrated: (1) maintenance and
rehabilitation; and (2) maintenance. These are based on estimates of desirable expenditures
following SCT Strategy 13, a Strategy compatible with that used in the second of the Accounts
Balance Models. Rehabilitation covers items such as complete highway repaving as well as
periodic maintenance. Maintenance included routine items such as pothole repair, culvert clean-
out, right-of-way upkeep, etc. Estimated costs proceeded from a highway costing methodology,
developed by SCT, that assigned costs to specific types of vehicles, depending on the usage they
made of the highways. Seven vehicle categories are considered: automobiles, light trucks (pick-
ups), passenger buses, and four classes of trucks. Usage was estimated by distance traveled in
vehicle kilometers per year, and by axle loadings per vehicle. Each of these parameters was
adapted to Mexican conditions using a model developed, with World Bank assistance, in the 1980s.
Costs are differentiated between assignable and non-assignable costs. Assignable costs are those
attributable to wear and tear on certain elements of the road structure or system. For example,
highway pavement is a structural element. Part of its maintenance cost can be assigned to a
specific intensity of use by a certain category of vehicle. Right-of-way maintenance costs, on the
other hand, cannot be assigned to a specific vehicle.
14.   Road User Revenues. The revenues considered were only those paid by road users in
addition to taxes levied on all economic activities. They included vehicle registration fees,
automobile purchase taxes, tolls, and operating permits. Revenue from fuel taxes includes only
that portion of the tax from transport on the federal highway which is above that required to bring
fuel prices in line with border prices (CIF Houston, plus a distribution and retail margin). It is
estimated that the contribution to road costs from gasoline is in the order of N$0.20/liter (UJS cents
6.4/liter) for regular gasoline (NOVA) and N$0.34/liter (US cents 10.8/liter) for unleaded gasoline
(MAGNA SIN). Diesel is slightly below international levels, and therefore associated taxes do not
make a contribution to road sector cost recovery (the implicit subsidy to diesel powered vehicles
was not included as a negative revenue). Finally, projected revenues from the recent (July 1992)
agreement between the Government of Mexico and the bus and truck owners' associations on a so-
called "voluntary tariff"; a special levy on trucks and buses is expected to raise about N$150
million (US$30 million) in 1993. Not included were value added taxes (IVA) and income tax on
transport companies (ISR), although these were included in the Accounts Balance Model.
Therefore, the revenues considered in this study are not compatible with those used in the
accounting models outlined in (paras. 4 to 8).



Annex C
68                                Page S of 6
15.   This model shows that road users contribute at levels sufficient to cover total road
maintenance and rehabilitation costs (see Table C-2). However, automobiles and small trucks
subsidize heavier vehicles, particularly five axle semi-trailers. In general, at each of the two
categories of highway system preservation, automobiles and small trucks contributed more than
their share, while trucks contributed less.
Table C-2: Annual Highway Revenues Less Estimated Costs by Vehide Category
(NS million, Febnury 1993)
Maintenan  and          Maintenance
Rehabilitation
CaYe!9017           Revenue     Cost      Balance      Cost      Balance
A         B         (B-A)        C        (C-A)
Car                            4,479         1      4,478           0      4,479
Smal Truck                     1,629         5       1,624          2      1,627
Bus                              93         57         36          23         70
Track C-2                        192       142         S0          54        138
Tnz  C-3                         160       277       -117         116         44
Semi-trailer T2 - S2             11         13         -2           5          5
Semi-trailer T3 - S2            420        826        406         378         42
Sub-otal                     6,983      1,320      S,663         578      6,405
UnallocatedJU                  IS0        784       -634         784       -634
Total (Mexican NS million)   7,133      2,104      5,028       1,362      5,770
US$(million) equivalent      2,301        679      1,622         439      1,861
I/   Unallocated Revenus: Voluntary Tncker Fee'
Unallocated Costa:   Maintenance costs which are not asigniable to specific users.
ConcIuks and Next Step.
16.   Both the above analyses indicate that in the aggregate, road users are contributing at levels
sufficient to cover desirable road maintenance and rehabilitation costs. The real increases in
gasoline prices over the last few years have made a major contribution to this.  The second
analysis shows that heavy vehicle users are cross-subsidized by automobile users. Over the last
few years the Govermnent of Mexico has made progress in redressing this imbalance. CAPUFE
tolls for truck increased in real terms by between 173% (for 8 axle trucks) and 372% (4 axle
trucks) between 1988 and 1992, as compared to only 106% for automobiles. A system of
voluntary contributions from the trucking industry has also been instituted. Diesel prices, while



AnnCeC
Page 6 of 6                            69
increasing substantially, are only now approaching international levels, and therefore diesel taxes
do not yet contribute to road maintenance cost recovery. This situation, coupled with the
increasing importance of the private road network, warrants a more thorough review of road
financing strategies and instruments. Such a study will be supported under the proposed project.
17.   SHCP will be responsible for carrying out the study, with assistance of consultants, and
if the study recommendations are suitable in the view of the Government and the Bank, for
preparing an action plan based on its conclusions.
18.   Working Group. The cost recovery working group's program for the next two years was
agreed at appraisal and will include:
(a)   sponsoring a symposium on road financing and administration issues, which will
lead to refinement of TOR for the proposed study;
(b)   serve as advisory group to SHCP for road financing and administration study, and
(c)   improve and update existing Models 1, 2, and 3.



Annex D
70                                  Page 1 of 19
ROAD TRAFFIC SAFETY
A. Introduction
1.    Despite continued efforts to improve highway and vehicle safety as well as driver
performance, fatalities and injuries sustained in traffic accidents are a major health problem in
Mexico. Road accidents are the third most common cause of death of Mexicans five through sixty-
five years of age. This annex presents information on the existing traffic safety situation in
Mexico, appraises the major related activities and describes a program to address some specific
areas of improvement under the project.
B. Existing Traffic Safety Situation
Figure D1: Indicators of Highway Transport Growth
Background                                          (Index 1970 = 100)
2.    Mexico's economic
development, accompanied by
an increase in the number of              I ndex
vehicles, has  put severe  and        800
increased strains on the country's    500
transport system  (Figure D-1).
The transport sector is recognized    400
to be of crucial importance for                                  -._____..
continued   economic   growth.        MO                              _4
Substantial  resources   have
therefore been invested in, for
example,  construction  of  a         100 i
modern  road  network.    The
impressive road building and the        70         75         so        95         So
increasing  number of vehicles                              yrs
have  been  followed   by   a
substantial number of accidents  Pcpulatton  +Rc. twork  tMttr Vehict
(Table D-1).
Table D-1: Reported Road Traffic Accident Casualties on the Federal Highways
1980     1981     1982     1983     1984      1985     1986     1987     1988     TOTAL
Accidents    55,994   56,610   57,016   47,027   50,847   54,723   51,412   51,600   55,234   480,463
Injured     31,364   27,076   27,543   22,937   25,289   27,881   27,252   27,835   30,064   247,241
Killed       6,162    5,085    5,155    4,136    4,345    4,627    4,491    4,802    4,928    43,731
TOTAL    93,520   88,771   89,714   74,100   80,481   87,231   83,155   84,237   90,226   771,435
Sour: SCT Estsdisicas Basicas del Autobrnsporte Federal, February 1990



Annex D
Page 2 of 19                              71
Scale of the Road Traffic Accident Problem in Mexico
3.   In Mexico road accidents are a prime cause of death and injury, in spite of a reduction of
almost 30% in the police recorded road accident deaths in the 1981-1986 period (Table D-2). The
actual number of road fatalities is estimated at about 15,000 per year. Statistics published by the
National Institute for Statistics, Geography and Information (INEGI) show that in 1986, road
accidents accounted for about 3% of all deaths recorded. An analysis for the 1981-86 period of
the ten main causes of death for the population aged 5 to 65, shows that road accidents account for
7 % of the deaths, making them the third most common cause of death. A closer analysis shows
that the 5-34 age group is the most affected as road accident deaths account for 12% of all deaths
in this group and for 64% of all accident deaths. Child traffic accidents are also serious and the
proportion of deaths of persons under 15 years is approximately double that of developed countries
(Table D-3). It is clear that road accidents represent a growing social problem particularly for
juveniles, young adults and those in early middle age.
Table D-2: Road Accident Deaths
Age Groups
Year
5-14    15-24    25-34    35-44    45-54    55-64   Total
1981             2,063    4,001    3,447    2,183.   1,611    1,150    14,455
1982             1,847    3,677    3,240    1,996    1,471      990    13,221
1983             1,556    3,041    2,958    1,940    1,404    1,051    11,950
1984             1,483    2,657    2,557    1,584    1,214      869    10,364
1985             1,392    2,742    2,483    1,663    1,150      862    10,292
1986             1,386    2,570    2,565    1,708    1,212      876    10,317
Total Road Acc. Deaths:   9,727   18,688    17,250   11,074    8,062    5,798    70,599
Group Deaths as % of    13.78    26.47    24.43    15.69    11.42      8.21     100
Total Road Acc. Deaths:
Total Deaths        78,332  139,396   151,094  162,498   197,294  250,181   978,795
Road Acc. Deaths as %   12.42    13.41    11.42     6.81     4.09      2.32     7.21
of Total Deaths:
Source: INCGI - Direccion General do Estadistica. November 1991



Annex D
72                                  Page 3 of 19
Table D-3: The Involvement of Children Under 15 Years of Age In Road Accidents
Number of                         Percentage of     Percentage
Fatalities         Total          AR Fatalities     of Population
COUNTRY         Under 15         Number of        That are Aged     Aged 5-14
Years of Age     Fatalities       Under 15 Yrs.    Years
Angola              57                398              14               24
Colombia           568               1,954             29               29
Egypt              226                546              41               27
Jordan              57                171              33               28
Malaysia           289               1,740             17               29
Mauritius           25                135              19               28
Mexico            1,790              8,871             20               29
Peru               227               1,036             22               28
Philippines         369              1,276             29               30
Reunion             17                 79              21               29
SriLanka            83                303              27               26
Swaziland           25                157              16               30
Thailand            867              5,181             17               29
Venezuela           572              3,353             17               29
Total:           5,172             25,728             20               28
Total of
9 Industrialized
Countries:        10,688           110,800             10               15
Source T.R.R.L. Road Safety in Developing Countries, 1987.
Figure D-2: The Main Causes of Road Accidents
4.   In Mexico, 75 %  of all
accidents occur in urban areas.      100
However, about 50% of the
deaths occur in rural areas. The               eo
national accident statistics include  s     7
the data of the FHN, collected by         62
the federal highway police, as        so
well as the data provided by the
states   and   urban   areas.         40
Information provided by the states
and  the  cities,  however,  is                                         20
incomplete  and   unreliable.         20                      13            S
Therefore,  the  analysis  that                      5 7          5 4
follows refers to the accident         a
situation on the FHN, of which             DrI ve    Vehicle    Road  ErvIrorvnart
45,700 km carries about 70% of             *197S 1990  E19iO-ieS5  *19G6
the inter-urban traffic.



Annex D
Page 4 of 19                               73
5.    The results from the police data for the FHN show that the "human factor" contributes to
about 80% of the accidents, while vehicle defects, road conditions and environment are responsible
for the remaining 20% (Figure D-2). The most common types of accidents seem to be collision
between vehicles (50%) and vehicles driven off the road (35%) (Table D-4). Among the
contributing factors connected to the driver, "speeding" seems to be the main problem. Regarding
the vehicle, about 22% of those involved in road accidents are trucks, for which the most serious
safety violations are slick tires and faulty brakes. Among the road and environmental factors, low
friction between the tire and the road surface is the most common. In summary, speeding, slick
tires, faulty brakes and skidding seem to be the main problems.
Table D-4: Classes of Accidents on the Federal Highways
1985          1986         1987          Total         %
Collision                22,960.0      22,729.0     22,696.0       68,385.0    37.8
Overturning               5,787.0      4,857.0       5,122.0       15,766.0     8.7
Driving out of the road  21,606.0      21,169.0     20,393.0       63,168.0    35.0
Pedestrian                2,522.0       2,491.0      2,357.0       7,370.0      4.1
Rear-end collision        7,710.0       7,472.0      6,857.0       22,039.0     12.2
Fire                       949.0        1,058.0        808.0       2,815.0      1.6
Passenger falling          249.0         560.0        299.0         1,158.0     0.6
out of vehicle
Other                     1,793.0       1,930.0      1,958.0       5,681.0      3.1
Total:                 61,833.0     60,336.0      58,532.0     180,701.0    100.0
Sourc: SCT Estadisticas Basicas de Autotransporte Federal. November 1991
Fgure D-3: Road Accident Risk Trend as Measured by the
Traffic Accident Index
Recent Trends in Road Trffic
Accidents
6.    Recent trends in accidents
and casualties on the FHN  are       1.4
shown in Table D-1 and in Figure     1.2
D-3.  The number of accidents
and  casualties decreased  from        1
1980 to 1983, and after that has     o 8
slowly increased  again.   The
reasons for the earlier decline are  0.6
not clear. It may be a reflection    0.4
of reduced traffic due to the
decline in economic activity, the    0.2
poor condition of the highways           78  79  80  B1  92  83  64  95  80
and  the  transport  regulatory                          Yoe
environment or a genuine
improvement in safety.               Source: SCT Olr-ccl6n Gnaeral de Servriceo TUcnfcoe.



AnexD
74                                 Page S of 19
International Comparisons
7.   In Table D-5, an effort is made to compare the safety level between countries at three
separate developing stages of motorization. Because the method of measuring risk in road
transport, expressed in the number of fatalities per vehicle-km, is so unreliable for most countries,
the risk of being killed in relation to the number of vehicles has been adopted as a measure of the
safety level of the traffic system. The traffic system risk level shows that road accident fatality
rates in Mexico are about 5 times higher than in other countries with a high degree of
motorization. A similar result is obtained when risk is measured taking into account the exposure
(vehicle-km).
Table D-5: Comparison of Probability of Being Killed (Risk) in a Road Traffic Accident for
Three Groups of Countries with Different Degree of Motorization
Motorization    Risk         Risk (Killed
Country/         (cars, trucks,    (Killed per   per 100,000   Risk
(Year of Data)      buses per 100    100,000     four wheel    (Killed per 100
pers.)          pers.)       motor         mill. vehicle kIn)
vehicles)
USA (85)                   71              19           27            2.0
Canada (83/84)            56               16           28            2.9
Australia (84)             54              19           34            3.4
New Zealand (84)           54              21           39            3.8
Germany (ERG) (84/85)      44              13           30            4.0
France (80)                40              23           30            4.6
Sweden (84)                40              10           25            2.5
Great Britain (83/84)      32              10           32            2.3
Spain (80)                 24              16           69             -
Greece (84)                18              21           120           7.5
Portugal (80)              11              21           180          11.3
Hungary (84/85)            15              17           117           9.0
Malaysia (83/84)           11              24          215            -
Mexico (85/86) *           9               19          216            9.4 S/
Chile (83)                7.4              13           180           -
Costa Rica (83)           6.8              8            120           -
Colombia (81)             3.5              9           257            -
R. Korea (83/85)          1.9              18           974            -
Philippines (80)          1.8              4           244             -
Thailand (82/85)          1.7              8           500             -
Kenya (80)                1.2              13         1,126            -
Paldstan (83/84)          0.5              5            982
Mission estimate.
g/ Data for federal highways (1986).
Soure:    G.W. Trnco 1988. Reducing traffic injury.
SCT Resumen Nacional de Accidentes de Transito, 1986.



An  D
Page 6 of 19                             75
Cost of Accidents to the Community
8.   Accidents do not only mean human tragedy with suffering and fatalities but also considerable
costs for society. For a rapidly developing country such as Mexico, it is important to know the
magnitude of the cost in order to rectify the situation. It is also worthwhile to estimate these costs
for at least two reasons;
(a)  to determine the socio-economic cost responsibility for the road users; and
(b)  to decide how much should be invested in road traffic safety.
9.   The first reason is relevant since road user fees and taxes should be used to achieve an
efficient utilization of resources in the transport market. This requires that the revenues from fees
and taxes combined contribute to cover the costs that the road users cause society. The second
reason is relevant since an improved road traffic safety situation demands resources (costs) but will
also generate cost savings when the number of accidents is reduced (benefits). In order to decide
how much money should be spent on road traffic safety, it is important to calculate the costs as
well as the benefits.
10.  In different studies from other countries, it has been estimated that the total cost of road
traffic accidents in developing countries is about 1 % of GNP. Using a figure of 1 %, the cost of
road accidents in Mexico would be about US$1,500 million per year.
C. Appraisal of Major Traffic Safety Related Activities
Road Trafric Safety Adniinistration and Strategy
11.  Responsibility for road safety activities has been vested since 1987 in the Committee for the
Prevention of Transport Accidents which is part of the National Safety Council coordinated by the
Secretariat for Health. The Committee is headed by the director of SCT's General Directorate for
Transport Preventive Medicine. In addition, each state govermnent is responsible for state
programs on safety and has a state safety committee to discuss and implement improvements in its
area with some coordination and support provided from the federal level via the National Safety
Council. Therefore, road accidents seem to be a health issue in Mexico. In practice, however,
coordination is weak and policy objectives are not well known. Even the SCT units that work on
road safety need to improve coordination among them. The state committees are often not
established or in their early infancy. There is a need to increase the involvement of senior
representatives of each of SCT's units as well as other government and non-government
organizations involved in road safety in the Transport Safety Committee so that the
recommendations emanating from it have a good probability of being implemented and a systematic
approach is established (para. 42). In addition, the Committee should ensure that the road safety
objectives described in the 1988-1994 Transport Strategy paper are well known and clearly
understood. These objectives aim to reduce the number and severity of traffic accidents through
safety campaigns, increase the use of the safety belt, control speed and alcohol use, and provide
vehicle safety inspections.
Accident Data Collection, Storage and Analysis
12.  There are several difficulties in the present system of data collection, particularly in the
completeness of the national data and in their analysis and interpretation. On the federal highway



Annex D
76                                Page 7 of 19
system, the highway police are responsible for accident data collection and have the best
organization. The police accident data are used by different units of SCT on a regular basis, but
coordination for the analysis and presentation of conclusions by these units is weak. For Mexico
City, the Metropolitan police are in charge of accident reports. However, they make no statistics
of their own and the analysis of accidents is deficient. The situation in the state roads and other
cities seems to be more serious because of the weak recording systems. In conclusion, the system
of data collection, storage and analysis should be improved so that the data for the entire country
as well as the accident analysis and reporting are complete and consistent. In this regard, in 1991,
DGTr contracted consultants to design a system to collect and store the data for the statistical
record of federal transport, including the accident data. The study should result in a detailed plan
for how to improve the road traffic safety information system for the Federal Highway Network.
The system, however, must be supplied and be available continuously. It should be characterized
by:
(a)   The adoption of uniform definitions (e.g., UN standard definitions);
(b)   The accident reporting form should be the same all over the country (e.g. PFC's
form);
(c)   Tabulation and analysis of accident data should be centralized and computer based;
and
(d)   Accident data should be available for all those who need it for planning and operating
a safer traffic system.
Preventive Medicine and Assistance on the Roads
13.  From  statistics based  on        Table D-6: Main Accident Contributing Factors
traffic accident reports by the                   Connected to the Driver
Highway Police, it is evident that
the most frequent causes of road                               Number of Accidents
accidents are related to human              Factors
factors, followed by environmental                           1985-1987   Percentage
conditions, road conditions and the   Speeding                 99,265        54
vehicle  (Figure D-2).   Among         Poor lane discipline    23,761        13
human factors, the main causes         Poor tuming             13,368         7
are: speeding, fatigue, driving in    Close following           8,523         5
the wrong direction, turning at a      Disregard of stop sign   4,797         3
prohibited  place,  not keeping       Dmnl driving              4,199         2
distance, careless driving, and        Other                   30.084        16
drunken driving (Table D-6).
Because the group most likely to              Total:          183,997        100
influence fatality rates is drivers
and DGMPT's responsibility           Sowur: SCT, Estadfsticas bAsicas del autotransporte
Federal, 1985-1987.



acg D
Page S of 19                            77
concentrates mainly on the driver, this directorate is developing an interest in driver behavior and
collects data on individual drivers.
14.  The analysis of accident data would be incomplete without considering the data on the
behavior of individual drivers. To better understand the causes of accidents, in 1991 DGMPT
conducted a survey among 1,233 commercial drivers around the country. The study provided a
profile of the Mexican operator of federal public transport: a young and uneducated person with
less than five years driving experience. New drivers are the source of a much greater proportion
of accidents than their numbers warrant. In France, drivers with a license less than a year old run
three times the risk of being killed in an accident as experienced drivers. This extra risk, due
mainly to lack of experience, largely explains the substantial level of accidents. Some of the
characteristics of the Mexican operator are:
(a)   Age: 80% are between 21 and 39 years old.
(b)   Civil Status. 70% are married and 25% are single. Therefore, workers are aware
that they need to keep their jobs in order to support their families.
(c)   Housing, Nwnber of People and Type of Home. 62% claimed to have all utilities
in their homes. However, 63 % of the homes only have two bedrooms where four
to six persons live.
(d)  Nutrition. 41% of the personnel stated that their nutrition was good, 40% said it
was sufficient and 17% said it was excellent.
(e)   Tobacco smoking habit. 60% of the individuals denied having a smoking habit.
27% of cigarette smokers indicated that they smoke between 1 and 10 cigarettes a
day, while 11 % claimed to smoke between 11 and 20 cigarettes a day.
(f)   Alcoholism. 91 % of the people interviewed denied consuming alcohol and only 3 %
claimed to be alcoholics.
(g)   Education. 83 % of the people interviewed have less than a high school education,
including 27% who did not finish elementary school. The scholastic studies showed
that 41 % of the people have an educational level corresponding to that of elementary
school.
(h)  Driving experience. 82% of the personnel subjected to the study have been working
as an automobile driver for about 0 to 5 years, and 11 % have been working from 6
to 10 years.
Driver Testing and Licensing
15.  A federal driver's license is required to operate a commercial vehicle which transports
products requiring the use of Mexican Federal Highways. In order to obtain a federal driver's
license in Mexico today, you have to meet the following requirements:



Annex D
78                              Page 9 of 19
(a)   be at least 18 years old;
(b)   present a drivers license from any state of Mexico;
(c)   pass the medical and mental examination carried out by DGMPT; and
(d)  pass the written test.
16.  The license is valid for 10 years, but it must be confirmed every two years on the basis of
a medical examination and payment of a fee. Also, Mexico and the United States of America
recently signed an agreement on "Recognition and validity of commercial driver's licenses". The
agreement became effective on April 1, 1992. It is aimed at achieving greater uniformity of rules
governing the issue and validity of commercial driving permits with a view to improving road
traffic safety and facilitating the issue of such permits to foreign drivers. The agreement also
stipulates minimum requirements for driving tests and minimum standards of physical and mental
fitness for prospective drivers. Special knowledge is also required about transportation of
hazardous materials, driving with trailers and the use of various kinds of brake systems. A training
program for DGTT personnel in charge of implementing the new licensing system is at present
under development (paras. 31 and 32). The new licensing requirements are as follow:
(a)   present a drivers license from any state of Mexico;
(b)   pass the medical and mental examination;
(c)   pass an extended written test with at least 80 questions based on a passing score of
80%; and
(d)   pass a driver skill test, given in a commercial vehicle that is representative of the
class of vehicle the driver will be licensed to drive and conducted in on-street
conditions.
Vehicle Regulation and Testing
17.  In most countries there is a tendency for operators of heavy vehicles to exceed legal axle
loads and gross vehicle weight limits, as the unit cost of freight movement decreases with
increasing vehicle load and vehicle size. The cost of the resultant damage caused to bridges and
to pavements is borne by the highway authority, and the increased costs of accidents and
environmental pollution have to be met by the community. The Mexican regulation for maximum
vehicle size and weights allows limits that are among the highest in the world. They are based on
discussions between the Government and the truck manufacturers and carriers and limited technical
and economic data.
18.  To find out what is actually happening on the highways, SCT, assisted by the Mexican
Institute for Transportation, carried out a survey to, among other things (a) collect dimensional data
for trucks and determine what type of trucks do not comply with the regulation; (b) determine the
extent of overloading and the corridors where it is taking place; (c) determine the types of trucks
and cargo being overloaded and the frequency of overloading; and (d) recommend measures to
enforce the regulations of weight limits. The study found that about 23 % of the trucks exceeded



AnnexD
Page 10 of 19                            79
the legal weight. In order to protect the highway pavements and bridges, and to have an updated
regulation to negotiate harmonization of heavy truck sizes and weights under NAFTA, SCT
prepared a new regulation in 1992 (Table D-7). The new regulation would be enacted before the
end of 1993.
19.  The present system allows potentially dangerous vehicles to use the public roads and at least
8 % of the road accidents are due to vehicle factors. In addition, the trucking fleet is deteriorating.
Mexico's trucking fleet has an average age of 12 years compared to 8 years for US trucks. The
present regulation system does not require mandatory vehicle inspection; it only authorizes SC`1
to carry out inspections. SCT does not have sufficient resources (staff and facilities) to carry out
vehicle inspection properly.
20.  It is of little value for the Government to invest in expensive testing facilities, and employ
hundreds of inspectors or to contract these services with the private sector, and to introduce stricter
inspection standards and improve procedures, if these are unlikely to be successfully implemented
in practice. Instead, it is probably better to request mandatory insurance of transport companies
against third party liability and let the insurance companies help to reduce the problem through
market incentives. SCT, however, should retain the right to carry out inspections and organize
itself to carry out some vehicle inspections on the roads and at terminals, as well as inspection of
vehicles that transport hazardous material, and of vehicles that have to comply with safety
standards agreed for international travel. In 1991, Mexico joined the North-American Commercial
Vehicle Safety Alliance (CVSA), providing the basic framework for uniformity, compatibility and
reciprocity of inspections and motor carrier safety enforcement activities in North America.
Road Safety Information and Campaigns
21.  To create a better understanding among people involved in the transport sector, DGMPT
gives conferences on the prevention of the poor lifestyle habits and diseases that most affect the
health of the Mexican public and of occupational diseases and accidents among transportation
personnel. Some of the main subjects of these conferences are: contagious and degenerative
diseases; drug dependence, with special emphasis on alcohol; occupational health and safety; first
aid, and basic traffic accident prevention. Video tapes for Traffic Preventive Campaigns are
produced and distributed widely. Posters and booldets, and radio and television and press publicity
are also used frequently in road safety campaigns. These activities are executed with the
cooperation and sponsorship of the Chambers of Passenger and Tourist Transportation, and of
Freight Transportation, as well as the Drivers Union, Federal Government Institutions and private
enterprises. These efforts should be accompanied by research to help in the choice of topic,
selection of media, choice of audience, decision on messages, and appeal. The effectiveness of the
campaigns should be measured and evaluated systematically (paras. 36 to 38).
Hazardous Highway Locations
22.  Between 10%  to 20%  of the highway accidents are due to road and environmental
conditions. A large portion of the resources available for improving traffic safety is used to
eliminate potential hazardous road locations (black spots). However, there is a need to improve
the identification of these locations and to select the most appropriate counter measures. There is
evidence that relatively detailed accident investigation, combined with low-cost engineering
remedial measures, can be highly cost-effective. The lowest-cost schemes, such as road marking,



80                                 Page 11 of 19
Table D-7: Truck Size and Weight Limits
VEEICLE WIDTH AND HEIGHT
MEXCO            CANADA   UNITED STATES   EUROPE
Width                   2.60 mts         2.60 mts           2.60 mts          2.5 mts
Height                 14.15 mts         4.15 mts         14.10 mts           4.0 mts
VEHICLE LENGTH
MEXICO           CANADA        UNIIED SIATES         EUROPE
Semi-Trailer            14.65 mts         14.6 mts         14.6 mts           12.0 mts
Full-Trailer            14.65 mts         Provincial limits   8.7 mts         12.0 mts
Straight Truck          14.0 mts         Provincial limits  varies by state 35'  12.0 mts
to 60' (10.7 mts to
18.3 mats)
Tractor-semi-trailer    19.50 mts         23.0 mts         varies by state from  16.5 mts
60' (18.3 mts)
Road Train (Truck-full    28.0 mts                         varies by state from  18.4 mts
trailer)                                                   50' (15.2 mts)
Tractor-semi-trailer-   28.5 mts          23.0 mts         varies by state from
semitrailer                                                65' (19.8 mts)
VEHICLE WEIGH_IT
MEXICO           CANADA        UNITED STATES         EUROPE
Single Axle             10.0 tons         9.1 tons         9.091 tons         10 tons
Tandem Axle             18.0 tons         17.0 tons        15.42 tons         18 tons
Tridem Axle             22.5 tons        21.0 tons         19.05 tons         24 tons
Gross Vehicle
Tractor-semitrailer
( 5 axle)               42.5 tons        39.5 tons         36.3 tons          40 tons
Tractor, Twin trailers
(7 axle)                62.5 tons        53.5 tons         36.3 tons
Source:     American Trucldng Association and mission



Annex D
Page 12 of 19                           81
sign posting, lane delineation and improved skid-resistant pavement surfaces are the most cost-
effective in reducing accidents. However, the best result can only be achieved by taking into
account the principles of road safety at all phases and on all working levels, and by providing
resources to such specific activities and for the implementation of such actions that are known to
improve road safety.
23.  One important measure to achieve comprehensive road safety is guidelines and standards for
the design of the physical environment that are well suited to the special national conditions. It
is important that safety features such as differentiation of road users, geometry, sign posting, and
lane delineation be introduced at the design stage, rather than added later. One example of the
need to improve the design standards is the design of an emergency lane on a sloped part of a high
class highway. For instance, on the Mexico-Puebla and Mexico-Cuernavaca toll highways, the
emergency lane is marked with a red road-marking line which starts from the right lane (slow-
traffic lane) and goes over to the left-lane (fast moving lane) and then again back to the right-lane
before entering the off-road emergency stopping lane. This design creates at least two serious (and
dangerous) conflict points for those who change lanes. The proper design would be to have the
emergency lane on the far right (eventually a specially constructed lane or just marking the
asphalted shoulder as an extra lane) all the way to the special off-road emergency stopping lane.
A black spot improvement program is being prepared by DGCCOP (para. 40).
legislation and Enforcement
24.  No matter how well planned and comprehensive the rules of the road are or how many
regulations are introduced to control the traffic, the practical result will be discouraging if road
users fail to comply with them. Effective traffic surveillance and law enforcement by the police
are therefore a necessary complement to other measures taken to improve road traffic safety.
25.  Enforcement is required to make people comply with laws and behave in a way that is
beneficial to society (and themselves). The risk of being caught is sometimes the only way to
prevent violations of laws, which are misunderstood, if not ignored. Several studies have shown
that road users are sensitive to surveillance and quickly adapt to prescribed behavior when
controlled.
26.  Road safety legislation is established in The General Communication Roads Law (Ley de
Vfas Generales de Comunicacion), in the Federal Highways Transit Regulations (Reglamento de
Transito en Carreteras Federales), and in the Transportation Medicine Regulations (Reglamento
de Medicina del Transporte). Vehicle security standards are included in the Federal Highways
Transit Regulations that are enforced by PFCP on the federal highways, in addition to DGTT's
inspection programs. Medical tests and health restrictions are decided by the DGMPT.
27.  The Mexican safety belt law provides for fines equivalent to 2, 4, and 6 days of minimum
wage for the first, second and third offense respectively. On the second offense, the offender's
federal license is suspended for one year, and on the third offense, it is canceled. Persons driving
under the influence of alcohol or other drugs are required to perform 30 to 90 days of community
service, or fined 30 to 90 days minimum wage, and their federal license is cancelled. No firm data
are available to assess compliance with safety belt use.



Amex D
82                             Page 13 of 19
28.  A driver found to be under the influence of drugs is declared permanently unfit to drive.
It is important to mention that higher fines are being promoted regarding safety belt use, speeding
and driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
Insurance
29.  Apart from taking due precautions, there is little a person can do to avoid road traffic
accidents. To reduce the personal financial consequences of an accident, private persons purchase
various kinds of personal accident insurance and property damage insurance. In Mexico, it is not
compulsory for motor vehicle owners to be covered by insurance for third party liabilities.
Therefore, the proportion of motor vehicles covered by insurance is extremely low. The
Government has been preparing regulations related to a compulsory insurance system for road
traffic accidents that would be considered in the framework of the reformulation of the insurance
industry. In the future, when the compulsory vehicle inspection system has become routine for all
vehicles, the third party insurance system could be coupled to vehicle inspection, e.g., before the
vehicle can be tested there must be a valid insurance certificate. In the meantime, the toll road
concessionaires, and CAPUFE, have opted for insuring users so that mutual support and equitable
distribution of the financial burden of actions taken by the users is provided.
D. A Program to Improve Road Safety
30.  Previous paragraphs have described the existing situation on road traffic safety on the federal
highways, the efforts of the administration to improve traffic safety conditions and the major
improvements required in some areas. Although road safety improvement is a multi-faceted
activity that requires a comprehensive set of measures and integrated plans to be successful, it is
possible to select some specific areas to be addressed in the context of the proposed project.
Training of Officials, Inspectors and Exaniners Charged with Federal Drivers License
Issuance and Vehicle Inspection
31.  As previously mentioned, one activity that contributes to the improvement of the federal
transportation service is the functional inspection and supervision of the service to ensure that
operations are carried out in accordance with the appropriate standards and regulations (para. 20).
These inspections are intended to increase the safety of both drivers and vehicles. In addition, the
new procedures for obtaining the federal drivers license are expected to improve commercial
drivers' behavior. To achieve better vehicle inspection and improve the licensing system, and to
ensure that set standards are followed uniformly throughout the country, one must train the
personnel concemed.
32.  DGTT has prepared a training program for inspectors, supervisors and examiners. DGTT
began training of licensing officers by sending two people for training to the United States Federal
Highway Administration. These two officers are now training a group of people in Mexico, who
will then train other personnel. Also, CVSA is helping DGTT to prepare a training manual for
vehicle safety inspectors and instructors. Details of the training program are given in Annex B.



Am"e D
Page 14 of 19                           83
International Seminar on Road Safety
33.  A three-day International Road Safety Seminar on Road User Behavior, organized by
DGMPIT with Bank assistance, took place on November 1992. The seminar focussed on human
limitations, on accident prevention, and on how to care for accident victims to minimize injury and
speed recovery.
34.  The seminar's main objective, however, was to increase social awareness of traffic safety.
About 300 people attended, including 100 people from the private sector.
Research on Road Safety
35.  The proposed program includes research to clarify the causes of accidents and to estimate
their social cost. The following areas are proposed for study:
(a)   number of hospital beds occupied by accident victims,
(b)   cost of treatment,
(c)   classification of various kinds of accidents and costs, and
(d)  systematic analysis of available accident data.
Information Campaigns
36.  The purpose of a campaign is to reach a group of road users through the mass media and/or
other suitable means such as booklets, posters, videos, or advertisements. The campaign must
provide adequate information for a particular target group and cover the target group's specific
safety problems. The success of a mass media campaign depends on its ability to bring about the
desired behavior change. If there is no change in behavior, the campaign cannot influence road
safety.
Some principles for campaigns could be stated as follows:
(a)   The message must be simple and easily understandable to the target audience;
(b)   Concentrate on a specific problem (e.g., drunken driving);
(c)   Keep the campaign close to the problem in time and location; and
(d)   Select the appropriate media.
37.  Road safety campaigns can play an important role in an overall program to increase road
safety. They can operate within a broad spectrum of objectives and areas. For instance, they may
be used to stimulate parents to train their children in safety skills, by encouraging them and giving
advice and instruction on how to behave. Campaigns can be used to advise car owners on how
to control and maintain their cars in a safe state. Campaigns may be integrated into other actions
such as law enforcement, to support them and increase their effect. The police would supervise
some specific aspects of road user behavior during the campaign.



Annex D
84                             Page 15 of 19
38.  The proposed program includes Road Safety Information Campaigns that would be launched
yearly by DGMPIT in the following areas:
(a)   Speeding by heavy vehicle operators and bus drivers;
(b)  Safety of school children;
(c)   The use of safety belts; and
(d)   Alcohol and drugs in road traffic.
Program to Eliminate Hazardous Highway Locations
39.  Paragraph 22 outlines the need to improve hazardous highway locations (black spots). Road
maintenance work is also important to road safety. The following maintenance needs should be
addressed in priority:
(a)   Maintain road surface to improve skid resistance;
(b)   Provide road signs to guide the driver;
(c)   Provide road markings adequate for day and night driving;
(d)  Provide adequate lighting to improve traffic interaction; and
(e)   Keep roadsides clear of obstacles to avoid serious consequences if the vehicle leaves
the road.
40.  SCT has identified a number of locations on the FHN that have a statistically significant
number of accidents and, with consultant assistance, has carried out the diagnosis and final design
of about 20 black spots (Table D-8) . Based on this, a tentative four-year program was prepared
covering improvements to about 350 black spots with an estimated cost of US$13.8 million. The
elimination of black spots would be carried out either through the pavement rehabilitation program
or through specific contracts.
Technical Assistance
41.  Regulation of the safety performance of equipment and vehicles in Mexico is not as
developed as the present standard for vehicles would permit. Several laws and regulations affecting
road traffic safety need to be modernized and harmonized with international standards (e.g.,
European Community (EC) vehicle safety standards). A study of Mexico's equipment and vehicle
safety standards is required. In many cases, an improved situation can be achieved by adopting
international technical standards. One possibility would be to create a group of specialists and to
entrust it with the task of issuing an official interpretation of the regulations, and another would
be to revise the regulations and include specific technical requirements wherever possible. Both
these alternatives could most effectively be carried out with the assistance of an intemational expert
(consultant) with relevant experience. The objectives of the study would be to:



- *                                                 - -Aw ___    ___                                                                        * -    =
Avg.     IDof                              dmoa  im                                                                  -
Daft   *    ei-      I of        Isf        am     f                               Ceost
No.    ROt.                  Secti_                Ka    Traf ric     d e&   deeds         4inj        Pam  (12)    Racm       mdllism       N$(0)       B/C
I       15      Momi-Zamon                        132    4,511        17         0          0             6.0       Signal                    7.45      1.06              |
2        1S     Guadalar.-Madpla                  28     6,870         11        0           6           119.5       Curve realignmen        173.S3      3.9
3       IS      Guedla -Madgalm                   44     6,870         11        2           5           92.5        Curve relignm           95.11      58.4
I~~
4       1S      Ouadalaah-Madgalmm                90     6,37          13        0           3           10.0        Curve reaignment        72.35      3.4
5        15 MI dga_ema-Lim.EdoMi.                95      7,159         17        0           3           112.0       Curve relgnment        453.43       1.2
6       15      M&dSgJ.a-lhm.BdoJaI. Nay         64      7,159         10        0           1            9.0        Curve relignment        32.36      4.3
7       45      Leoa-Lago deMomao                40      5,729         16        1           0           18.0        Ovepass                1557.00     3.4                [
8       45      Lona,to.-LgoS de Moe,JAI.    41          5,729         16        0           1      .   133.0        Signal                  33.81       1.4
9       57      Qurtaro-Sam  Lis Potoui           122    7,464         10        1           4           35.3        Curv, realignme         62.54      46.0                     oo
10       57     Qu 0rar-a Luis PCoi               123    7,464         11         0          2            12.0       Signal                   10.70      3.2
I11      57     San Luis Po-Matual                108    5,702         10         0          1            11.0       Signal                  40.62       1.1
12       57     Mau-ltill                         2       6,915        10         1          7            47.0       Overpas                1602,00      4.3
13       57     Mo                                233    6,915         20         0        .1             32.3       Signal                   18.50      1.1
14       57                                       234    6,915         20         0          1            48.3       Signal                   11.28      1.4               e
1S       57     matehualsa4niljo                  236    6,915         16         0          0            40.0       Curve reignment         67.00       1.4              t
16       85     Pt..Fiero-Lim.Edo.Hgo.            28     13,611        19         1          5            33.8       Turning law             167.16      1.7
17       8S     Mexico-PacbWA                     27     14,105        21         3          2            33.0       Overpass               1263.00      14.6
s18       5                                       90      6,S68        17         0          1            0.3        Siga                      10.0      1.2
19       85                                       85      6,568        19        2           7            44.0       Curv relignment        515.86       10.4
20       95      Taxc-Mezcalepec                  120    6,73          24         0           1           26.2       Signal                   15.65      1.1
Tebk:                                                           11          51           so3                                              _ A



Annex D
86                             Page 17 of 19
(a)  Investigate the situation in other countries and in the transport market with regard to
safety standards for vehicles and equipment;
(b)  Improve standards and inspection procedures;
(c)   Determine what equipment is needed to perform vehicle inspections effectively, both
in the inspection stations and using spot checks; and
(d)   Determine and design appropriate training for inspection personnel and police (spot
checks).
Institutional Improvements
42.  A systematic approach is needed to achieve effective road safety. The approach must be
long-term and must permit simultaneous implementation of coordinated actions in many different
areas. Systematic, statistical follow-up of actions decided on and implemented is also important
in order to evaluate the effects of actions taken and, if necessary, to propose other more effective
measures for the future. Measures decided on must be coordinated with other actions; for
example, increased information together with increased police supervision to make the campaign
more effective. Generally, in planning road safety work, we must find the best way of improving
traffic safety using available resources. To achieve that goal, planning must consider:
(a)  long-term objectives;
(b)   description of the road traffic safety conditions and problem identification;
(c)  short-term targets;
(d)   a coordinated road traffic safety program; and
(e)   a systematic approach to the various areas of road safety.
43.  Planning must be coordinated by one central body and involve all parties concerned with
road traffic safety. The resulting traffic safety program must contain a complete set of measures,
to be carried out by many different authorities and by voluntary cooperating agencies. The
coordination of various actions must be improved. So far, it has mainly been achieved within the
Department of Preventive Medicine (para. 13). Agreement was reached during negotiations that
the department should present an annual report on Road Traffic Safety. The report should have
a structure similar to that of DGMPT's report dated January 27, 1992. It should be complemented
with sound statistical tables.
Equipment needs
44.  To strengthen the preventive medical actions and to improve the information system,
DGMPT has prepared a list of equipment requirements for drug and alcohol detection and for
improvements to the nationwide computer-based information system. The information system
would be an important tool for the analysis of accident data needed for the annual report. DG1T



Anna D
Page 18 of 19                         87
has also prepared a tentative list of equipment to support implementation of the new licensing and
vehicle inspection system (Table D-9).
Table D-9: Tentative List of Equipment
Description                  Quantity     Estimated Cost in US$
A. For implementation of new licensing:
Computer equipment                         150                500,000
Radiocommunication equipment               150                 67,000
Highway cones                             1,125                 9,000
Vehicles                                    48                700,000
MonitorsNVideocassettes                     50                 59,000
Measuring tapes                            100                  5,000
Uniforms                                   250                 60.
Sub-Totals:                                                1,400,000
B. For vehicle inspection system:
Vehicles                                    50               1,170,000
Radio control station                       50                200,000
Radio transmission                          50                 30.
Sub-Total:                                                 1,400,000
C. For preventive medicine:
Breath analyzer                            450                 90,000
Alcohol/drug photometer detector            34                200,000
Gas chromatographer                          7                780,000
Microcomputers                              21                 80,000
Printers                                    27                 50.000
Sub-Total                                                  1,200,000
Total:                                                  4,000,000



AnneX D
88                                Page 19 of 19
45.  A summary of the cost estimates and implementation timetable for the proposed Road Safety
Program is presented in Table D-10.
Table D-10: Cost Estimates and Implementation Timetable for the Road Safety Program
Agency                                      Total       Implenentation   Target Date
Responsible        Actions to be Taken        Cost *      1993 194 199S
DGTr        1. Training of inspectors,        0.7         x    x    x       1996
supervisors and examiners
(incl.equip.)
2. Equipment for implementation   1.4         x
of new licensing
3. Equipment for vehicle          1.4
inspection
4. Study of vehicle safety        0.1         x                 1993
DGCCOP         standard regulations           3
3.6
DGMPT       1. Remedy of 'Black-Spots'       12.0         x    x    x      cont.
1. International Road Safety      0.1                          Nov. 1992
Seminar                                                    (accomplished)
2. Information campaigns          0.1        x    x    x       cont.
3. Research on road safety        0.1        x    x    x       cont.
4. Equipment for supervision      1.2        x    x    x        1995
and preventive medicine.
Total: (US$ Miluion)           17.1
*Million U.S. Dollars. Excluding physical contingencies.



Annex E
Page 1 of S                             89
INSTITUTIONAL MODERNIZATION OF SCT's
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE DIRECTORATE (DGCCOP)
A. Introduction
1.  The main responsibility of DGCCOP and the SCT centers is to provide a federal highway
network whose pavements offer safe and adequate services, at a minimal cost, both for the SCT
and for the users. With this objective DGCCOP has decided to revise its organizational structure
and to reformulate its Highway Maintenance Management System (SICC).
B. Restructuring the Organization
Deficiencies
2.  In 1991, SCT contracted with management consultants (McKinsey and Co., Mexico-United
States) a study for the institutional modernization of DGCCOP. The study found that DGCCOP
has several areas where there is an opportunity to correct inefficiencies and introduce operational
improvements that will directly influence maintenance quality.
3.  The main deficiencies identified in the study are:
(a)   Organizational Structure. The hierarchy has too many layers, the regional centers
have little autonomy, and management is not focused on its substantive and normative
functions of planning and monitoring;
(b)  Information Systems. Problems include subjective systems used to evaluate highway
conditions and to allocate funds, work duplication and lack of a single source of
reliable data;
(c)   Personnel. Overstaffing at headquarters and low salary levels that contribute to poor
motivation and low productivity;
(d)   Equipment. The existing equipment is old and in poor repair; and
(e)   Budgetary Allocations. Shortage of funds to carry out highway maintenance.
Redefining DGCCOP's Mission and Organization
4.  Based on the Ministry's directive and administrative decentralization dated May 13, 1991,
on previous rulings and on an analysis of DGCCOP's activities, its mission was redefined in the
study to give priority to the functions of standardization, planning, supervision, evaluation and
monitoring. The organization recommended provides for an area directorate for each of these
general management responsibilities (Chart 3-1). The main points are:
(a)  improve interaction between the various areas of general management;



Annex E
90                                 Page 2 of S
(b)   reduce staff at headquarters and at regional centers; and
(c)   redefine/reinforce the functions of each area within the directorate.
5.  In the event that the Agreement from May 13, 1991 was not implemented, the consultant
recommended an organizational structure that would enable a separation between operational and
administrative functions and permit better decentralization of the operations. A prudent, gradual
two-step change has been suggested: decentralize the organization, then gradually transfer
operational responsibilities to the centers.
Implementation Schedule
6. The modernization of DGCCOP needs a concerted effort on behalf of all its personnel as well
as support from SCT and outside authorities. The schedule of activities for the restructuring of
DGCCOP is presented in Table E-1.
Table E-1: Organizational Structure - Implementation Timetable
ACTIVITIES           1992             1993                     1994
ONDJFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJJAS.OND
Plan for transition to new
organization                                                  -
Develop follow-up systems
and transition controls                 _
Staff key positions
Define responsibilities
Develop programs for
acquisition of skills
Training program
Develop new organization
manual                            _
Develop new procedures
manual



Anex E
Page 3 of 5                              91
C. Highway Maintenance Management System (SICC)
Objectives and Scope
7.  The SICC is a process to coordinate and control a series of activities with the objective of
optimizing resources for highway maintenance, rehabilitation (including reinforcement) and
reconstruction, particularly of pavements, and to generate the corresponding work programs and
budgets. The SICC essentially seeks to encompass the following:
(a)   a database with objective, reliable and timely information on the structural and functional
condition of pavements, traffic volumes, maintenance costs, highway rehabilitation, and
user costs;
(b)   a computer system that continuously updates and monitors the database;
(c)   computation models for network and project analysis that can manipulate data on
pavement condition, the cost of vehicle operation, and various strategies for maintenance
and rehabilitation, to formulate annual and multi-annual pavement maintenance and
rehabilitation programs. Also, SICC may include other aspects of the highways, such as
a bridge administration system; and
(d)  institutional/technical aspects, such as a support group to operate SICC and coordinate
the activities of the various DGCCOP units participating in the system.
8.  The main objective of DGCCOP's reformulation of its SICC is to rationalize its planning and
preparation of the maintenance and rehabilitation budget for the 45,000 km of paved highways within
the federal highway network, in particular to:
(a)   analyze various maintenance strategies at the network level to project future budgets and
to estimate the impact on future pavement condition and on the cost to users;
(b)   plan maintenance and rehabilitation works and the corresponding budget on an annual
basis, taking into account economic criteria and budget restrictions; and
(c)   analyze, at the project level, different alternatives for reinforcing and rehabilitating
pavements to enable projects to be designed that are compatible with economic and
efficiency criteria.
Development and Implementation
9.   A series of actions are needed to develop and implement the SICC and ensure systematic
operation (fable E-2). Decisions will be needed from DGCCOP's Planning and Evaluation
Directorate (DPE) with respect to the administrative structure and functions. The main activities
include the following:
(a)  For the database (pavement condition and structure, traffic, cost of works, and user costs):



Ann"LE
92                                  Page 4 of 5
(i) establish a highway reference system for data identification;
(ii) store the data collected in a data bank (data management system); and
(iii) prepare data for use in the analytic model.
(b) For the monitoring system:
(i) acquire, validate and update the data regularly. Some of the data to be collected
include:
-  Inventory: road section identification, length, pavement type, width of pavement,
number of traffic lanes, type and width of shoulder, thickness of pavement layers,
type of materials, type of subgrade, type and condition of drainage;
- Pavement condition:  roughness measurement, superficial defects (cracking,
deformation, rutting, etc.);
- Structural capacity: deflection measurement;
- Traffic: average daily traffic; axle loads; and
-  Costs: maintenance costs (including costs for routine and periodic maintenance,
and rehabilitation) and vehicle operation costs.
(c) For the computer systems:
(i)  systematize the implementation of the SISTER-Mex program for the evaluation of
strategies at the network level, which allows the generic definition of budgets and the
priority areas;
(ii) acquire, calibrate and implement a system to evaluate technical alternatives at the
project level and prepare annual maintenance and rehabilitation programs; and
(iii) acquire, calibrate and implement a system for bridge administration (SIPUMEX).
(d) For the institutional area:
(i)  review the organizational responsibilities of DPE, keeping in mind the adoption and
implementation of the SICC;
(ii) decide which maintenance activities will be carried out internally and which will be
contracted out with the private sector;
(iii) assign staff and the necessary resources to operate the system; and
(iv) prepare and implement a staff training program.



Page 5 of 5                                          93
TABLE E-2: Highway Maintenance Management System (SICC)
Implementation Timetable
ACTIVIrIES                    1991      1992      1993      1994       1995      1996      1997
Project Initiation (June 1991)
Database
Reference System                                                 _
Installation of Reference System
Data Bank (initiated on Nov. 1991)
Monitoring System
Pavement Condition                                               -          -         -         -
Inventory of deteriorated sections
Deflections                                                          *         *
Traffic                                     -
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Costs
Vehicle Operating Costs
Computing System
SISTER-Mex (Network level)
SNMAP (Project level)
SIPUMEX (Bridge Management System)
Institutional Aspects
New Organization
Resources and Personnel
Training                                                          -_ 
System in opeation



Annex F
94                                 Page 1 of 12
MEXIO
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION, RESURFACING AND MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
Pavement Condition
1.   The present condition of the paved federal highways network based on the 1991 survey by
SCT shows that 60% of the network is in poor to very poor condition, and 30% is in fair condition
(Table F-1). A more detailed review of the inventory reveals that about 5,000 km requires
substantial rehabilitation/strengthening. In addition, another 15,000 km is affected by the
accumulated backlog of deferred resurfacing.
Table F-1: Condition of the Federal Highways
Length (Km)
Good       Fair      Poor      Very Poor    Total   Percentage
According to       1        1647       4609       5372        1677       13305       37
Traffic Class      2        1073       3838       6830        2590       14331       40
3        768       1793       2838        1064        6463        18
(See Table 111-4)    4        143        400        859         225        1627         5
5          0         28         8          28          24          0
Total     3631      10668      15907       5584       35790
%        10%       30%        44%         16%        100%        100
Good       Fair      Poor      Very Poor    Total   Percentage
According to       2        2510       9959      14726        5400       32595        91
Number of          4        1118        696       1110         184        3108        9
Highway lanes      6           3         0          71          0          74         0
8          0         13          0          0          13         0
Total     3631      10668      15907        5584       35790
%        10%       30%        44%         16%        100%        100
Good       Fair      Poor      Very Poor    Total   Percentage
According to      CL1       1394       5538       9145        2739       18816       53
Climate Zones     CL2       2237       5130       6762        2845       16794       47
Total     3631      10668      15907        5584       35790
%        10%       30%        44%         16%        100%        100
Source: SCT



Annex F
Page 2 of 12                             95
Highway Maintenance Strategies
2.   SCT modeled a series of highway maintenance strategies for a 15-year analysis period
(1993-2007), with the help of a computerized system named SISTER, assuming several budgetary
levels. BCEOM Consultants (France) assisted SCT in this exercise. The highway network was
classified in sections according to three priority groups, five traffic categories and two climate
zones and the maintenance strategies were compared on the basis of traffic and maintenance cost
(Figure 4-1). Graphing the discounted net benefits against the cost for all strategies, as shown in
this figure, enabled the identification of an "efficiency threshold' indicating the strategy with the
highest economic benefit for a given level of agency expenditures. All strategies represented by
points below the threshold are inferior to strategies lying on the threshold. The most satisfactory
strategies, in terms of benefits received, are those located in the upper zone of the threshold where
the slope of the curve is flatter. But as the maintenance expenditures fall below this zone, the
benefits decrease by much more than the savings to the road agency. The best tested strategy
(Strategy 13) requires a budget level of US$700 million per year (about twice the present
allocation) to achieve a network condition in 2007 in which 60% of the network would be in fair
condition but no highways would be in poor condition. Another strategy that doubles the present
budget would result in about 15% of the highways being in poor condition and 65% in fair
condition. Continuing the policies in place prior to 1993 (Strategy 00) would result in a condition
in which more than 90% of the highways would be in poor condition by 2007.
SCT's Program
3.  Among the strategies whose financial requirements would be less than or equal to the
available budgetary level, the strategy having the lowest present value of cost was chosen (Strategy
88). The Government's proposed four year highway rehabilitation, resurfacing and maintenance
program was established based on this strategy. Efforts to allocate more funds to highway
maintenance are constrained by the Government's macroeconomic policy. The selected strategy
would be enough to prevent further deterioration of the network but not enough to achieve any
significant improvements.Y' Figure F-I shows the evolution of pavement condition for the selected
strategy. Table F-2 shows the standards of the selected strategy for the highways in priority Group
I in a zone with a temperate climate and Table F-3 summarizes the physical, economic and
financial targets for the selected strategy. The road links selected in this phase would be adjusted
in consultation with SCT's centers and subjected to a more detailed analysis using SCT's
procedures, such as SIMAP, that are adapted from the Bank's HDM. A detailed pavement
condition survey, engineering designs and updated traffic surveys were carried out for the first
group of highways (totalling about 1,540 kim) to be contracted during the program's first year and
a more refined economic analysis performed (para. 7). Subprojects to be implemented in
subsequent years would be selected according to the above procedure.
4.  The total estimated cost of the four-year highway rehabilitation, resurfacing and maintenance
program would be about US$1,448 million of which about US$667 million (46%) would be for
rehabilitation, US$308 million (21%) for resurfacing and US$238 million (16%) for routine
maintenance. The remaining US$235 million include a bridge rehabilitation and improvement
1/ However, some improvement beyond tbese forecasts is likely to result from traffic diversion to private toll
roads and from improved control of truck weights and measures. Hence, the assumptions underlying the
anAlysis supporting the project should be regarded as conservative.



Annex F
96                                    Page 3 of 12
program (US$83 million) and some US$152 million for emergencies, training and miscellaneous.
Table 4-1 gives the estimated budget requirements and physical targets of the four-year program
and Table F-4 shows the expenditures for the 1986-92 period.
Figure F-1: Projected Condition of the Federal Highways by Year.
40
30
120
10
93   94   95   P6   97   98   99    0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7
F7  Good  E!  Fair   E Bad   U  Worst
Table F-2 Selected Highway Maintenance Standards for
High Priority Highways in a Temperate Climate
Traffic Category          T-1              T-2              T-3             T-4               T-5
- Condition Index 'Is' 1/   20-14    14-1   20-14    14-1   20-13    13-1   20-13    13-1   20-13   13-1
- Strategy              Standr.  Wait  Standr.  Wait   Stxndr.  Wait   Standr.  Wait  Standr.  Wait
- Mx period (years)      14       9      13       9       11        6      11       5       9       3
- Routine Maintenance                                 yearly in all highways
- Resurfacing (ls)       15      11      15       11      15       -       15      -       15
- Rehabilitation (Is)    14       1      14       1       14       1       14       1      14       1
1/ Tho Quality Condition 'Is' represents an estimate of the surface condition of the pavement
(cracking and deformation). An Is of 20 represents a new pavement, and an Is of about 6 or
less indicates that a pavement is seriously cracked and deformed.



An F
Page 4 of 12                                         97
Table F-3: Physical, Economic and Financial Targets of the Sdected Strategy
Period                93-95      96%-9      99-01       0204        0507         Total
I. Mintenace Budget
(1993 MexIan NS million)
Total for period             3,257      4,161       3,415       3,989       2,833       17,655
Annual average               1,086       1,387      1,138       1,330         944       1,177
II. Le1t of Works (km)
Total for period
Surface Treaent                17,023     15,470     14,450       17,791      15,070      79,804
Asphat Concret                    804      1,031      1,830        1,95          814       6,474
Rehabilitation                  2,057      4,081      2,919        3,354       1,683      14,094
Annual average
Surface Treatment               5,674      5,157      4,017        5,930       5,023       5,320
AInalt Caqpet                     268        344        610         665          271         432
Rehabilitation                    686      1,360        973        1,118         561       4,698
111. Vehkk Operang Cost
(1993 Mexican NS miflion)
Total for period           248,453    276,368    303,222      343,301     373,388    1,544,732
Annual avenge               82,818     92,123    101,074      114,434     124,463     102,982
IV. Savings
(1993 Meican NS million)
Budget                         - 1,091    - 1,908    - 1,276     - 1,834     - 1,242      - 7,351
VOC                            - 2,865    - 1,039     9,933       13,380      26,017      45,426
V. ERR                                                                                           24
Source DGCCOP



Table F4 Federal Highways: Annual Maintenance Budget and Physical Targets 1986M1992. 1/
(in Milion of Mexican Pesos)
PrOC.             sUDCeT T19                                                   917 _                                             99 -            1'- m  =9=                                                 2
Eapad       Taret       Expad        Targe       Expad        Tare        EpNd         Target     Ezp-ed       Taret       exp-d        Tarsgd      Expend       Target
BG       P bng                               5,984                    7,412                    4.152                    6,500                   5,500                   17,094                  21,270
02Sadi                               539          24          941          33          987          4U         2,250        16          600           3        6,820          16        7,369            9
04 S         _avieioan eenag        5,445         152        6,471        106        3,165           82       4,250         90        4,900         156       10,274         370       12,956          160
03 Tmuisug                                                                                                                                                                                956
El       03 Roconstrctioatelab.             12,802                   10,472                   71,242                   95,110                 290,885                 462.080                  481,407
02 Highway Relih./Reconst. 2/      12,802       115 Km      10.472     1,454 Km     71.242       821 Km      74,543      955 Km    258,601      2,700 Km    433,138      2,500 Km    420,694          2,420      00
03 Bridge RedabJRacou                                                                     -      116 Pta.    12,632       41 PEs.    25,754        79 Pta.    21,S32        70 Pi.    60,713            112
04 Brdge R dJWdem-                                                                        -                   7,935        13 Pta.    6,530        34 Pts.     7,110        45 Ptu.
05 MaiwlAace                       58,174                  132,747                 153,724                   172,903                312,292                  253,968                  138,210        45,000
01 Routie Higbw. Ma_nean.          53,891    42,000 Km    123,213    43,50  Km    126,09    45,000 Km    153,005   45,000 km    275.166    45,000 Km    233,768    45,000 Km    13B,210    45,000 km
02 BridgeMaintenance                    -                                      -          -                   2,141      111 PEa.
03 2qvineW  -d Maciny               4,283        51 Taln    9,534         71 Eq.    27,715         39 Eq.    17,750        36 Eq.    37,126       380 Eq.    25,200                    30,368       13 Tall.
140 Eq.                                                                                                                                            240 Eq.
TOTAL                           74,9"                     _22,113                                        274,513                   _                      73,142                   671, 2
1/ Only bdal highways und- SCIr  Mainme   Dicorate re anchded. 19S6-90 amou   re actua expemba and acconaEdd  urgel. 1991 and 1992 expenditures are preliminary dala.
2J lachades rehabil_dn - wedl   perudic _mane woerk.
0I'



Ann F
Page 6 of 12                                 99
Costs and Financing
5.  A summary of the program cost and tentative financing is shown below.
1993 Mexican N$ Million              USs MilL;on
1993     1"94      1995      1996    1993-96    1993-96
I. Pavements                833.2     866.4     941.2    1118.2   3759.0       1212.61
- Rehabilitation         284.0     444.6     608.3      729.5   2066.4       666.63
- Resurfacing            341.7     246.0      165.8     201.9    955.4       308.20
- Routine Maintenance    207.5     175.8      167.1     186.8    737.2       237.78
II. Bridge Rehabilitation and
Inprovemnent              50.0      69.5      68.4      69.3    257.2        82.97
Ell. MIsllaneous            117.0     129.1     116.3     110.5    472.9        152.55
Total DGCCOP Program   1000.2    1065.0    1125.9    1298.0   4489.1      1448.13
Fimancing
Govermment               766.6     762.6     764.7     830.1   3124.0       1007.78
World Bank               233.6     302.4     361.2     467.9   1365.1       440.35
Total                1000.2    1065.0    1125.9    1298.0   4489.1       1448.13
6.  The Bank's loan would finance about 3,600 km of the highway rehabilitation, and about
7,400 km of the pavement resurfacing works of SCT's 1993-1996 program. The selection of
individual road sections to be included under the SCT program would be made using the selected
highway maintenance strategy and individual feasibility studies. The project highways have rough
riding surfaces due to ravelling, excessive cracking, and pavement deformations from structural
failure. The rehabilitation and resurfacing works would include selective improvement of road
shoulders, roadside drainage and improvements to hazardous road locations.
7.  About 1,540 km of highways, for which detailed engineering and feasibility studies were
substantially completed by the time of project appraisal, would be included in the first batch of
subprojects to be contracted in 1993 (Fable F-5). The selected highway sectors have daily traffic
of between 1,000 and 13,000 vehicles and economic rates of return ranging between 13% and
178%. The project provides for a minimum rate of return of 25%, but allows projects with lower
rates - up to 12% - provided that the accumulated total investments for such project does not
exceed 10% of the budget for the year in which the subprojects are being considered. The
remaining subprojects would be selected after a refined analysis of the chosen strategy. The



Annex F
Page 7 of 12
100
Table F-5: Proposed Highway Rehabilitation and Pavement Resurfacing Program for 1993
Total   1 1993 Budget
State and Highway Section            AADT    Length        Cost   | Allocation     ERR
(km)    Thousands of Mexican NS
1. QUERETARO-SAN LUIS POTOSI (GTO)
Tr Lim Edos.Gro/Gto - Lim Edos Gto/SLP         8080       63.5          5000         5000    178.14
2. PUEBLA-TLAXCALA (TLAX)
Tr Puebla - Sta Ana - Apizaco                 13176       10.0          1500         1500    176.01
3. PUEBLA-JALAPA (VER)
Tr Perote - Jalapa                             7422       53.0          4000         4000    112.78
4. MATEHUALA-SALTILLO (COAH)
Tr Lim Edos NL/Coah-Saltillo                   8748       14.0          4000         2000    107.06
5. MEXICO-TULANCINGO(MEX)
Tr Venta de Carpio-Lim Edos Mexico/Hgo         7581       46.6          8200         5000     101.06
6. JALAPA-VERACRUZ (VER)
Tr alapa - Tamarindo                           6572       70.0         10500         6000      98.06
7. GUADALAJARA-TEPIC (JAL)
Tr Tequila-La Venta de Nochitiltic             7225       34.0          5000         5000      94.01
8. JIQUILPAN-GUADALAJARA (JAL)
Tr Entr Acain - Entr Periferico              9773       33.0          7500         5000      82.73
9. VERACRUZ-COATZACOALCOS (VER)
Tr Paso del Toro - Alvarado                    5883       35.0          7000         5000      77.92
10. MORELIA-URUAPAN (MICH)
Tr Ptzcuaro - Uruapan                          4865       35.0          5000         5000      77.81
11. GUADALAJARA-TEPIC (NAY)
Tr Lim Edoa Jal/Nay - Tepic                    6946       35.0          8750         5000      74.28
12. MORELIA-GUADALAJARA (MICH)
Tr Carapan - Zamora                            7299       35.0          7700         5000      72.37
13. PUEBLA-TEZIUTLAN (PUE)
Tr Amozoc - Lim Edos Pueb/TIax                 5486       35.0          8000         5000      71.83
14. LEON-AGUASCALIENTES (AGS)
Tr Entr Aeropuerto - Aguascalientes            6233       12.0          2500         2500      69.83
15. MATAMOROS-REYNOSA (TAM)
Tr Matamoros - Rio Bravo                       7628       29.0          5100         4000      67.99
16. MATEHUALA-SALTILLO (NL)
Tr Lim Edos SLP/NL - Lirn Edos NLlCoah         6614       35.0         18370         5000      64.43
17. JALAPA-VERACRUZ (VER)
Tr Cardel - Veracruz                           5943       32.0          7000         3000      63.87
18. QUERETARO-SAN LUIS POTOSI (SLP)                         25.0
Tr Lim Edos Gto/SLP - San Luis Potosi          8303      (T.A.)         7700         5000      62.72
19. PACHUCA-TAMPICO (VER)                                   35.0
Tr Lim Edos PuefVer - Tuxpan                   5852      (T.A.)        10500         5000      61.73
20. PUEBLA-JALAPA (PUE)
Tr Sn Hipolito - Lim Edos Pue/Ver              5158       35.0          8000         5000      61.14
21. COATZACOALCOS-SALINA CRUZ (OAX)
Tr Matfaa Romero - La Ventosa                  4421       43.0          8600         5000      59.91
22. VERACRUZ-COATZACOALCOS (VER)                            35.0
Tr Angel R Cabadas - Mangos                    4059      (T.A.)         6200         5000      59.82
23. MORELIA-SALAMANCA (MICH)                                35.0
Tr Morelia - Lim Edos Mich/Gto                 3418      (T.A.)         5000         5000      54.41
24. MEXICO-NOGALES (SIN)                                    35.0
Tr Lim Edos Nay/Sin-Mazatlin                   6275      (T.A.)        11200         5000      52.90



AnnLex F                                       101
Pae 8 of 12
Total Cost  1993 Budget
State and Highway Section             AADT    Length               I Allocation     ERR
(kim)    Thousands of Mexican N$
25. QUERETARO-SAN LUIS POTOSI (QRO)                          25.0
Tr Queretaro - Lim Edon Qro/Gto                 7186     (T.A.)          5000         5000      52.57
26. POZA RICA-VERACRUZ (VER)                                 35.0
Tr Poza Rica - Gutierrez Zamora                 5107     (T.A.)          9000         5000      47.46
27. MORELIA-CELAYA (GTO)
Tr Celayn-Salvatierra                           6978      30.0           5000         5000      46.44
28. IRAPUATO-GUADALAJARA (AL)
Tr Lim Mich/Jal - Zapodanejo                    6620      35.0          14000         5000      45.69
29. IRAPUATO-GUADALAJARA (MICH)
Tr La Piedad-Lim Edos Mich/Jal                  8783      10.0           5000         5000      44.26
30. ZIHUATANEJO-PLAYA AZUL (MICH)
Tr Lim Edos Gro/Mich - La Mir                   6628      35.0          17600         5000      42.79
31. MONCLOVA-PIEDRAS NEGRAS (COAH)
Tr Ssbinas - Piedras Negras                     6260       7.0           2600         1000      40.60
32. MORELIA-GUADALAJARA (MICH)
Tr Zamorn-Jiquilpan                             3741      35.0           7700         5000      40.14
33. TUXPAN-TAMPICO (VER)                                     35.0
Tr Nanjos-Ozuluama                              3482      (T.A.)         5000         5000      39.34
34. ACAPULCO-ZIHUATANAJO (GRO)
Tr Acapulco - Zihuatanejo                       4294      35.0          14000         5000      35.74
35. COATZACOALCOS-VILLAHERMOSA (TAM)
Tr Lim Edos Ver/Tab - C6rdenas                  6643      35.0          17950         5000      31.73
36. MARAVAT7O-ACAMBARO (MICH)
Tr Maravatio-Acimbaro                           2000       18.0          4000         1700      30.95
37. LA VENTOSA-TAPANATEPEC (OAX)
Tr LA Ventosa - Tapanatepec                     3699      25.0          20196         5000      30.38
38. MONTERREY-CASTAiOS (COAH)                                15.0
Tr Lim Edo. NLICoah - Casiios                   2814      (T.A.)         7000         1500      29.69
39. ZACATECAS-SALTILLO (COAH)
Tr T Gral Cepeda - Saltillo                     3674       7.0           4000          500      28.39
40. TUXPAN-TAMPICO (VER)
Tr Alazan-Naranjos                              3937      33.0          18700         5000      26.82
41. COATZACOALCOS-SALINA CRUZ (OAX)
Tr Lim Edo. Ver/Oax - Matfns Romero             2941      25.0          13420         5000      25.84
42. VILLAHERMOSA-CHETUMAL (TAB)
Tr Villahermosa - Lim Edos Tab/Camp             1779      31.0           5500         4300      25.43
43. REYNOSA-NUEVO LAREDO (TAM)
Tr Reynosa - Cd Mier                            4015      35.0          15000         5000      24.00
44. LOS REYES-ZACATEPEC (TLAX)
Tr Lim Edo. Mex/Tiax - Apizaco                  1412      47.0          12500         1500      23.32
45. RAMAL A YAHUALICA (JAL)                                  15.0
Tr Ramal a Yahualica                            1000      (T.A.)        13500         2500      20.52
46. CIUDAD VALLES-TAMPICO (SLP)
Tr Cd Valles - Lim Edos SLP/Ver                 4028      25.0          18400         5000      18.99
47. LA PAZ-CIUDAD INSURGENTES (BCS)                          36.0
Tr Las Pocits - Sta Rita - El 36                1249      (T.A.)        20000         4000      17.79
48. EST. MANUEL-SOTIO LA MARINA (TAM)                        30.0
Tr Est Manuel-Soto La Marina                    1715     (T.A.)         17500         3500      15.44
49. ALAZAN-CANOAS (VER)                                      35.0
Tr Anazn - Tempoal                              1403      (T.A.)        20200         5000      13.38
TOTAL                                                _      1544.1       465086        208500



Annex F
102                             Page 9 of 12
project would provide for consultant services for detailed engineering and supervision of selected
roads.
8.  The project bridge component would provide for the repair, rehabilitation and improvement
of about 280 bridges (Table F-6) in addition to the 400 bridges to be repaired under the ongoing
Highway Maintenance Project. These works include bridges on the federal highways that have
reached the end of their service life and have become traffic bottlenecks because of severe
overloading with 2 to 3 times the design load, advanced structural deterioration, width restrictions
or scour bearings. Selection of the bridges is based on a detailed inventory carried out as part of
the Bridge Management System under development in cooperation with the Danish Road
Directorate. About 76 bridges, selected as high priority from an emergency inspection carried out
in 1992 on 821 bridges and for which detailed engineering would be completed by project
negotiations, would be included in the project's first-year program (Table F-7).
Table F-6: Bridge Rehabilitation and Improvement Program (1993-1996)
Urgency of Repairs                                                  Total
(Groups)            1993      1994       1995        1996      193-96
Alarm (5)                   34         32          -          -          66 /
Urgent (4)                  33         13         85         74         205
Less Urgent (3)              9          -          -          -           9
Total Number of Bridges     76         45         85         74         280
Cost:
(1993 Mexican N$ Million)    50.00   69.53     68.43       69.31      257.27
(US$ million)           16.13     22.42      22.07       22.35       82.97
L/ Rehabilitation of 14 additional bridges of Category 5 was contracted during 1992.
Source: SCT



Annex F
Page 10 of 12                           103
Table F-7 Bridge Rehabilitation and Improvement Program for 1993
NUMBER OF               COST
STATE                BRIDGES         (1993 Mexican N$ MilLion)
BAJA CAUFORNIA                   2                    624
CAMPECHE                         2                  1,930
COAHUILA                         2                  2,069
CIIAPAS                          2                    982
CHIHUAHUA                        4                  1,985
COLIMA                           1                    560
DURANGO                          2                  1,013
GUANAJUATO                       3                  6,022
GUERRERO                         4                  3,860
HIDALGO                          1                     10
JALISCO                          6                  4,460
MEXCO                            1                  1,000
MICHOACAN                        3                  3,170
MORELOS                          1                    280
NAYARIT                          4                  2,240
NUEVO LEON                       2                    850
OAXACA                           3                  3,171
PUEBLA                           2                  1,300
QUERETARO                        2                  1,350
SAN LUIS POTOSI                  6                  2,470
SINALOA                          2                  2,775
SONORA                           3                  1,007
TABASCO                          4                    648
TAMAULIPAS                       3                  1,300
TLAXCALA                         2                  1,060
VERACRUZ NORTE                   2                  1,010
VERACRUZ SUR                     4                  1,650
ZACATECAS                        3                  1,204
TOTAL                      76                  50,000
(US$16.13 million)



Annex F
104                              Page 11 of 12
9.  Given the increased reliance on contracting for maintenance works, the equipment
component (2% of base cost) would include only purchasing of asphalt patching trucks and routine
maintenance equipment, purchasing of spare parts and tools, and improvement of depots. An
estimate of equipment needs is presented in Table F-8.
Table F-8: Maintenance Equipment and Workshop Program
(In Million of U.S. Dollars)
Total
Item Year                1993      1994      1995      1996     1993-96
Procurement of Road
Maintenance Equipment                8.75      7.90      3.58      5.47     25.70
Procurement of Spare Parts (including
tires)                                           -       1.93      1.93      3.86
Workshop Construction,
Rehabilitation and
Improvement Program                  .93        1.20     1.02       -        3.15
Total Cost (including physical cont.)  9.68   9.10      6.53      7.40     32.71
Source: SCT's Directorate of Maintenance. February 1993.
Schedule
Figure F-2 overleaf shows the yearly budget preparation schedule for DGCCOP's program,
and Annex G presents the implementation schedule for the program components.



Annx F
Page 12 of 12                                          105
Figure F-2: DGCCOP's Budget Preparation Schedule
RE!SPONSE UN               __
CALENDAR
SCI's SIATE CENTERS    SCrs HEADATERS                             SHCP
N-2                                          'yuN   D:0:;i             t- 
Ocoer
N-2                                                                        _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _
November
N-2                                                          _________
December
N-2
May
N -i                   i   :  .:  ii -   i,
June
Ni1
July
Ni1
N-1
N-i
October
N-i
November
N-i
N
Period                                                  aw  itaIg
N
Ccnsultatioz  with the Wosi Bnk.



106
MEXICO                                              Annll    G
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT                            =g 1 of 9
Implementation Timetable
-~~ =   ... =  _  =..     .      ... - -. -             .    _--
PROJECT COMPONENTS/SUB-COMPONENTS
BY SEMESTER                         92/2   93/1   93/2   94/1   94/2   95/1   95/2   96/1   96n2  97/1
1. HIGHWAY REHABILITATION/RESURFACING
(a) Planning
Updating Network Strategy (SISTER)                     _              _               _              _
Selection of Highway Links
(b) Engmeering
Field Surveys and Designs
Preparation of Bidding Documents
Bidding
(c) Works
Implementation of Works
11. BRIDGE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
PHASE I
(a) Project Supervision                      *       *       u
(b) System Design                           _
(c) Preparation of General Manual
(d) Organization of SIPUMEX
Job Description                               u
Implementation                                 m
(e) Inventory and Principal Inspection
Manual
Training
Implementation
(f) Special Investigations
Training (theoretical)
Training (on the job)
(g) Routine Inspection and Maintenance
Manual                                           u
Training                                          *
(h) Ranking of works
Software 
Manual
(i) Consolidated Report                                       U
PHASE II
(a) Project Supervision and follow up                          _
(b) Principal Inspection with special equipment
(c) Routine and Special Inspection
(d) Remedial design
(e) Budget Control Module                                    -
(f) Bridge Map
(g) Construction Management
(h) Archive System                                             u
(i) Routes for heavy transport
(j) Final Report
(k) Price book and Optimization



Anan-A                                                    107
Page 2 of 9                                             MEXICO
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
Implementation Timetable
PROJECT COMPONENTS/SUB-COMPONENTS              l       lI               I      I      I              I      I      I
BY SEMESTER                           92/2 193/1   93/2   94/1   941    95/119sn    96/1    96/2    97/1
IIL TRAFFIC SAFETY
DGTT
(a) Training of inspectors, supervisors and
examiners (including equipment)
(b) Equipment for implementation of new licensing
(c) Equipment for vehicle inspection
(d) Study of vehicle safety standard regulations
DGCCOP
(a) Improvement of hazardous locations
DGMPT
(a) International Road Safety Seminar             u
(b) Information Campaigns
(c) Research on road safety _
(d) Equipment for supervision and preventive
medicine
IV. MODERNIZATION OF DGCCOP
(a) Transition plan to new organization
(b) Development of follow-up systems and
transition controls
(c) Staffing of key positions
(d) Definition of responsibilities
(e) Development of skills acquisition programs
(f) Training program
(g) Organization Manual
(h) Procedures Manual
V. HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT
SYSTEM (SICC)
(a) Project Initiation (June 1991)
(b) Database
Reference System
Installation of Reference System
Data Bank
(c) Monitoring System
Pavement condition
Inventory of deteriorated sections                         _               _                _
Deflections                        _       _       _ _
Traffic counts
Maintenance and Rehabilitation costs
Vehicle Operating Costs
(d) Computing System
SISTER-Mex (Network level)                _               _               _               _               _
SIMAP (Project level)                                        0 w            *                                a
SIPUMEX (Bridge Management System)        _               _               _               _               _



108
MEXICO                                              Page 3 of 9
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
Implementation Timetable
PROJECT COMPONENTS/SUB-COMPONENTS            [       l              1       1       1 l1
BY SEMESTER                       | 92/2  | 93/1 | 93/2     94/1 | 94/2     95/1  | 95/2   961         997/1
(e) Institutional Aspects
New Organization
Resources and Personnel
Tramuing-                                               --                     -       -       -
(f) System in operation
VL SECTOR PLANNING AND COORDINATION
(a) Secretarial directive establishing the
planning coordination office and functions                    n
(b) Preparation of manual on engineering
economics of subprojects
(c) Strategic Planning of freight flow study
(d) Integration of SCTs data Bank_
(e) Sector Strategy Studv
VIL COST RECOVERY GROUP
(a) Annual Reports                                      *               *              *
(b) TOR - Road Finance Study (completed)
(c) Symposium
(d) Road Finance Studv
(e) Presentation of action plan
VIII. VEHICLE WEIGHTS AND DIMENSIONS
(a) Vehicle size, capacity and weight regulations
Size regulations issuance               m
Weight regulations issuance                          m
(b) Prohibition for C4 trucks to circulate on
Federal Highways                                   -
(c) Expedition of rules and procedures for
capacity and dimensions
(d) Bidding for the construction and operation
of vehicle size and weight control centers
and mechanic inspection centers
IX. TRAINING
(a) Equipment acquisition
(b) Course Support                                            _                       -       -      -       -
(c) Formal Training Program
(d) Conferences, Semiars and Study Trips



Annex G
Page 4 of 9                                       109
TRAFIC SAFETY AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING COMPONENTS
Implementation Tanel
TRAFFIC SAFETY                      TARGET           TARGET DATE           AGENCY
- Improvement of hazardous road locations          160                Yearly            DGCCOP
- Training of inspectors, supervisors and          160                 1996              DGTr
examiners (number of course modules).
- Equipment for implementaion of new             Purchase          October 1993          DGTr
licensing
- Equipment for vehicle inspection               Purchase           June 1994            DGTT
- Equipment for preventive medicine              Purchase          August 1995           DGMP
- New licensing system                         Promulgation         April 1992           DGTT
- Study of vehicle afety standards                Report          December 1993        CGPIDGTT
- Inational Road Safety Seminar               (Accomplished)      November 1992          DGMP
- Infornution Campaigns                        Two per year      March, November         DGMP
- Research on Road Safety                       Assessment        December 1995          DGMP
- Annual Report                                   Report            September            DGMP
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                  TARGET           TARGET DATE           AGENCY
Highway MN intenance Organization
- new organization                              approval         November 1992    Oficialia Mayor
- modernization of DGCCOP                      completion           July 1994         DGCCOP
- implementation of SICC                       completion           June 1995         DGCCOP
- number of training course modules                90                Yearly           DGCCOP
per year
Sector Planing and Coordination
- formally established SCT's Planning           approval       December 1, 1993   Oficialia Mayor
Coordination Office
- prepare planning and evaluation manuals    signed contract     December 1993           COP
- sratogic planning of freight flow suy      signed contract      February 1993          CGP
- data base sydsm for transport sector          installed         July 1, 1995           SCT
- Sector Strategy Study                          Report           December 1993         COP



Annex G
110                                      Page 5 of 9
TRAE}C SAFLIX AND INSTITUTIONAL STENGIMENING C;)MIPNENTS
Implementation Targets
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                  TARGET           TARGET DATE           AGENCY
- Highway Cost Rewvery and Instruments
- anual report                              Isue the report         May 31           SHCP/SCT
- road financing statepes and resource          Report           Sqptmber 1994       SHCP/SCT
mobilization
- GOM action plan                            Issue the Plan        June 1995         SHCP/SCT
- Symposium                                Execute Symposium     September 1993      SHCP/SCT
- Control of Truck Overloading
- new regulation on vehicle size and        Enact regulation   December 31, 1993       DGTT
dimensions
- percentage of overloaded trucks                10%              July 1, 1995         DGTT
HIGHWAY REHABILITATION,                    TARGET           TARGET DATE          AGENCY
RESURFACING AND
MAINTENANCE PROGRAM
(Physical and financial targets for this components are given in Table 4-1)



Annex G
Page 6 of 9                              111
TOPICS TO BE ADDRESSED IN THE ANNUAL AND MID-TERM REVIEWS
Annual Reviews
1.    The main focus for each such review, that would take place each year not later than January
31, would be the implementation of the project in the previous year, the financing resources required
from the federal government for the current year and identification of subprojects to be commenced
during the current year. The agenda will consist, inter alia, of the following:
(a)    Progress in carrying out the 1993-1996 SCT's Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing
and Maintenance (SCT Program);
(b)    Revisions to the SCT Program that may be required as a result of its implementation
and budgetary allocations;
(c)   Impact of the SCT Program as reflected by a comparison between the actual physical
and financial figures achieved per year as reported by SCT and the levels set forth in
the loan documents;
(d)    The monthly cash flow projections of highway maintenance and rehabilitation
expenditures for the current year;
(e)    Progress in implementing the Traffic Safety Component and its effectiveness,
including a review of the annual Traffic Safety Report, and the different safety
activities to be carried out under the project;
(f)    Progress in implementing the DGCCOP reorganization, including the maintenance
management system (SICC) and training program;
(g)    Results of the annual report on the cost and revenues related to maintenance of federal
highways and progress in carrying out, before end of 1994, the study on road
financing strategies and resource mobilization options available to Government;
(h)    Progress in implementing the vehicle size and dimension regulations;
(i)    Progress regarding the technical assistance and studies;
()    Compliance with the timetable and targets set forth in pages 1 to 5 of this annex;
(k)    Compliance with project conditionality; and
(1)    Use of loan proceeds and possible reallocation of the proceeds among the loan
categories.



Annex G
112                                Page 7 of 9
2.    The annual reviews would conclude with an agreement on an action plan for the year of the
review to address any issues arising during implementation.
Mid-term Review
3.    The 1995 annual review would constitute a Mid-term Review, and provide an opportunity for
a more comprehensive review of the achievements of the project to date, with specific reference to
the intentions outlined in the Government's policy letter, and of the prospects for its successful
completion. For this Mid-term Review the agenda will include, inter alia, and in addition to the
agenda items for the annual reviews:
(a)    a review of compliance with project conditionality;
(b)    an evaluation of the funding proposals for the remainder of the Program;
(c)   the implementation of the action plan, prepared by the Government, based on the
results of the road financing study; and
(d)    proposals for restructuring or reorientation of the project in light of the reviews, and
assessment of the issues discussed during the review.



Annex Gz
Page 8 of 9                             113
PERTINENT ASPECTh OF THE FEDERAL GOVEMEN'S STRATEGY FOR
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE AND RERABLBTATION 1/
(POLICY STATEME)
The Federal Government's strategy for the maintenance of Mexican highways is based on
an analysis designed to achieve an optimum balance between network conditions, user costs and
budget allocations. This analysis clearly indicates that the combined effects of the age of the
roads, heavy-vehicles traffic and low levels of investment during the past decade, as a result of the
austerity measures taken, have led to a rapid and accelerating deterioration in the road network
In light of the foregoing, and in recognition of the need to reverse this trend, in the current
year, the maintenance budget for federal highways has been increased 30% in real terms as an
indication of the high priority attached by the present Government to this sector, paricularly when
it is borne in mind that severe restrictions are still being imposed on most other sectors. However,
despite this increase, it is apparent that in the short term, this level of expenditure will only allow
for a modest improvement in the overall conditon of the network
For this reason, and given the important role of the road sector in Mexico's economic
development, the policy pursued by the Federal Government will be to achieve a significant
improvement in the condition of the road network in the shortest possible time, by allocating larger
quantities of resources to the maintenance program. To this end, the Federal Government will
ensure that the departments and agencies responsiblefor implementing this program, from start-up
through completion, include the resources required for its proper implementation in their budget
proposals for the years covered in the program.
Furthermore, in compliance with Article 30 of the Federal Budget and Accounting Law
special reference will be made to this matter when the Federal budget bill is submitted to the
legislature, both for 1994 and for subsequent years.
It should be pointed out that the Federal Government's efforts to channel larger amounts
of resources to this program include not only budget allocations but also contributions that may
be raised from third parties, such as the voluntary contributions by users. The Government's
strategy will also focus on the need to give priority to maintenance over the construction of new
roads, which is consistent with the objective of allocating a larger volume of resources to actvities
that have the highest net economic benefits.
Given the shortage offunds, their efficient utilizaton is vital. A tripartite committee has
therefore been formed which will meet each month, consisting of representatives of the SHCP, the
SCT and the SECOGEF, for the purpose of ensuring that resources are used optimally. Efficiency
targets to be achieved will be based on previously agreed economic, technical and environmental
criteria which will govern the selection of subprojects.
L/ This documents is an informal translation from the Spanish-original letter which was presented
to the Bank at negotiations for the proposed project.



Annex G
114                              Page 9 of 9
In addition, the Government is firmly committed to continue promoting private sector
participation in the execution of rehabilitation and maintenance work Consequently, during
program implementation at least 70% of road rehabilitation works will be carried out by contract.
Furthermore, measures will be taken to ensure equitable recovery of maintenance costs
from users. Accordingly, the pricing policy for fuels (gasoline and diesel) will ensure that prices
are maintained at levels at least equal to those of our principal trading partners. To further this
policy, the present administration has made very significant increases in the prices of gasoline and
dieselfuel; gasoline prices reached international levels in November 1990 and the same will be true
of diesel fuel by the end of 1993.
So as to increase the volume of resources that will be allocated for road maintenance
acivities, a system of voluntary contributions by the trucking industry was introduced at the end
of 1992 which is expected to yield about 130 million new pesos during the current year. It should
also be pointed out that in recent years revenues from the Federal Highways and Bridges
Department's toll road network have greatly increased: tolls paid by automobiles rose around
106% in real terms between 1988 and 1992, while the tolls paid by trucks rose from 173% (eight
axles) to 372% (four axles) in real terms over the same period.
Nevertheless, to provide more precise and comprehensive data on these matters, an inter-
institutional working group (SHCP-SCT) has recently been formed for the purpose of developing
methodologies to enable user contributions to be monitored systematically. This group will prepare
annual reports by May 31 each year that will include updated data on user contributions.
It is also considered necessary to undertake an analysis of the highways financing in
Mexico. This study is especially timely given the very important structural changes made in the
highway system since the sector was deregulated in 1989, the growing role of concessionaire
highways, the need to increase budget allocations for maintenance, and the evidence that the
largest trucks are still not making a proper contribution to meeting the cost of the damage they
cause to the network This analysis could provide a basis for preparing possible changes in cost
recovery levels and/or developing the kinds of instruments that would be needed to ensure efficient
utilization of the road network This study is projected to be completed by the end of 1994, and
we estimate that by mid-1995 an action plan, based on the study's recommendations, can be
developed an would be sent to IBRD at that time.



Annex H
Page l of 2                                     115
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CONSULTING SERVICES
CONSULTING
SUBJECT               EXECUCNG             INPUT       ESTIMTED COST         TEMING
AGCECY         MAN-MONTHS    USS ThIOUSAND
Sector Planning &
Environment
- A mnual on Engineering
Economy of Subprojects         COP                  1S               450         Dec/93-Dec/94
- Strategic Planning of
Freight Transport              CGP                  90              1,000        Jan/93-June/94
- Environmental Studies         cop                  15                350        Jan/94-Dec/94
- Highway Financing and
Options for Resource
Mobilization                   SHCP/CGP             15                250        Sept/93-Septl94
- Sector Strategy               coP                  60                850        April-Dec/93
- Highway Planning System       coP                  50                700        July/93-July/94
- Monitoring of Highway         CGP/OM/              40                400        Feb-Dec/93
Maintenance Program            DGCCOP
Maintenance & Plannig
-Highway Maintenance            DGCCOP               40                800        Jan/93-Dec/94
Planning (inchiding
Implementation of SISTER)
- Implementation of             DGCCOP               50              1,000        Jun/93-Junl96
SIPUMEX (Phase U)
- Development/                  DGCCOP               12                100        Jun/93-Dec/93
Implementation of SIMAP
- Highway Condition             DOCCOP             (about            4,500        Jun/93-Jun/96
Inventory                                       US$26/Kmn)
- Review of DGCCOP's            DOCCOP                6                 50        Jun/93-Dec/93
Information System



Annex H
116                                      Page2 of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND CONSULTING SERVICES
CONSULTING
SUBJECT               UIECING             INRF         ESIMATED COST         TIMING
AGRICY         MAN-MONTHS       USS THOUSAND
Enginwring/Super,isio.
- Coordination and
Assistance on Work           DXCCOP                96               1,100        Jun/93-Dec/96
Suporvision
- Engineering/Supwrision       DGCCOP              5000              32,190       Jan/93-Dec/96
of Worbk
Equipment Admnistaton
- Implmentation of
Eqiipsnesf Management        DGCCOP                24                 100        Jan/94-Dec/94
System (S IM)
- Outside Instuctors and
adSednces                  DGCCOP/DGTr                              1,660        Jan/93-Dec/96
- Outide Training           DGCCOP/DGTT |                              620        Jan/93-Dec/96
Trfc Safety
- Comprison of Vehicle
Safety Standard             DGP/Dj T               8                 120         Jan-June/94
Regulations
- Road Hazardous Locations     DGCCOP                -                 160        June-Doc/93
Improvmet Study
- Accident Costa Reearch      DGMPT                  8                 120        Jan-Dec/94
- Road Safety Seminar         DGMPr                  -                 120        Nov/92
- information CalnpSigl        D CM                  -                 120        March, Nov.



Annex I
Page 1 of 1                              117
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
(Million of U.S. Dollars)
Cumulave
IBRD Fiscal Year       Disbursements for   Disbursements at    Cumulstive
the Semester     end of Smester    Percentage (%)
J2M4   December 31, 1993           48 1/               48                10
June 30, 1994                30                 78                15
1t   December 31, 1994              18                 96               20
June 30, 1995                48                144                30
1996  December 31, 1995            29                 173               36
June 30, 1996                48                221                46
December 31, 1996            19                240               S0
June 30, 1997                20                260                54
1998  December 31, 1997            28                 288               60
June 30, 1998                48                336                70
I99   December 31, 1998             24                360               75
June 30, 1999                53                413                86
Z2O   December 31, 1999             19                432               90
June 30, 2000                48                480               100
Asswngtions
Loan Signing Date  : June 1993
Loan Effectiveness  : August 1993
Project Completion  : December 31, 1999
Loan Closing Date    June 30, 2000
i/ A special account would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of up to US$25 million
equivalent. Retroactive financing up to US$30 million equivalent is proposed for expenditure incurred
after November 1, 1992.



Annex J
118                               Page 1 of 2
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. General
1.   Plan Nacional de Desarrollo, Informe de Ejecuci6n (3 Volumes) (SCT), 1989, 1990,
1991
2.   Informe de Labores (SCT) 1991-1992.
3.   Cuarto Informe de Gobierno y Anexo, Poder Ejecutivo Federal, Direcci6n General de
Communicaci6n Social, 1992.
4.   Programa de Modernizaci6n de la Infraestructura del Transporte (SCT), 1990-1994.
5.   Programa de Modernizaci6n del Transporte (STC), 1990-1994.
B. Highway Rehabilitation, Resurfacing and Maintenance Program
6.   Standard Bidding Documents for Civil Wirks, DGCCOP, 1993.
7.   El Processo de Planeaci6n 1990, "Lineamientos y Metodologfa para la Programnacion
Presupuestaria 1991', Direcci6n General de Recursos Financieros (SCT).
8.   Elaboraci6n de Estrategfas de Mantenimiento para la Red Troncal de Carreteras, Informe
de Instalaci6n (BCEOM), Noviembre 1991.
9.   Elaboracidn de Estrategias de Mantenimiento para la Red Troncal de Carreteras, Informe
de Avance (BCEOM), Diciembre 1991.
10.  Elaboraci6n de Estrategias de Mantenimiento para la Red Troncal de Carreteras, Informe
de Ejecutivo (BCEOM), Abril 1992.
11.  Criterios de Formulaci6n del Programa de Conservaci6n (SCT), 1993.
12.  Tercera Etapa del Estudio de "Programa de Rehabilitati6n de Carreteras y Seguridad" de
la Red Federal de Carreteras del Pafs (INFINSA), Mayo-Noviembre 1992.
13.  Policy Letter of SCT/SHCP of November 5, 1992 and Annexes.
14. Analisis Estadfstico del Peso y las Dimensiones de los Vehfculos de carga que circulan
por la Red Nacional de Carreteras, Instituto Mexicano del Transporte ([MT), Junio
1992.
15. Programna 1993 (SC), Noviembre 1992.
16.  A Manual on Engineering Economy of Subprojects, Terms of Reference.
17.  Monitoring of Highway Maintenance Program, Terms of Reference.



Pae 2 of 2                             119
Highway/Bridge Maugement Systems
18.  Primera Fase Sistema Mexicano para la Administraci6n de los Pavimientos (SIMAP),
SCT, 1990.
19.  Sistema de Puentes de M6xico (SIPUMEX), Informe Inicial, Danish Road Directorate/
SCT, Septiembre 1990.
20.  Organization of the System for Bridge Management in Mexico, Danish Road Directorate,
May-July 1992.
21.  Inspecci6n de Emergencia y Jerarquizaci6n de Puentes Seleccionados de la Red Federal
de Carreteras de la Repdblica Mexicana, Danish Road Directorate, Noviembre 1992.
22.  Highway Planning System, Terms of Reference.
23.  Highway Maintenance Planning (including implementation of SISTER, Terms of
Reference.
24.  Implementation of SIPUMEX (Phase II), Terms of Reference.
D. Trafric Safety
25.  Estudio para la Evaluaci6n Econdmica y Establecimiento de Prioridades de Soluci6n para
los Puntos Conflictivos de la Red Basica Prioritaria, Primera Etapa, Agosto 1990.
26.  Comparison lof Vehicle Safety Standard Regulations, Terms of Reference.
27.  Hazardous Road Locations Improvement Study, Terms of Reference.
E. Institutional Aspects
28.  Manual de Organizaci6n de la Direcci6n General de Planeaci6n, Enero 1992.
29.  Modernizaci6n de la Direcci6n General de Conservaci6n y Obra Piblica, Mc. Kinsey &
Company, Inc., Noviembre 1991, y EnerolFebrero/Junio 1992.
30.  Strategic Planning of Freight Transport, Terms of Reference.
31.  Highway Financing and Options for Resource Mobilization, Terms for Reference.
32.  Sector Strategy, Terms of Reference.



IBRD 2370-
UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA
CS/A +N  f l N   _   u C
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E X I                                           C U   
.  - - _                                                                                           MEXICO
GW1X .\ .   \  #   \  eV; /   _t., ,^     C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SI-d i...
EtL-''  a1\        f                        W                                      5,a,,,~~f 
'.! %sCa.11-6a    D    U    9  A    N    G >-
ItN,oooi c-".
Zlh.st.                                                 8ELIZE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OSt*.0941
.                  i M                     *-                 M                _  Wtv                             oS'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ,n'J i. o 00
A              OA"ACA   rLG9ir.-i
-10*r5 0  3    <4090\\;y_0rz>>___i[
To4 Pr.ol ocHONDURAS
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -. __S jI.,. >u.o.



