Page  1
Abril 2, 1997
Lic. Jaime Corredor Esnaola
Director General
Banco Nacional de Obras y
 Servicios Públicos
Insurgentes Norte 423
06900 México, D.F.
Dr. Martín Werner Wainfeld
Director General de Crédito Público
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
Dirección General de Crédito Público
Insurgentes Sur 826, Piso 0
Colonia del Valle
03100 México, D.F.
Re: MEXICO: 
Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic
Safety Project (Loan 3628-ME)
Amendment Letter
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic
Safety Project) between International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the Bank) and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C. (the
Borrower) dated July 8, 1993 (the Loan Agreement) and the Guarantee Agreement
for the same Project between the Bank and United Mexican States (the
Guarantor) of even date therewith. Whenever used in this letter, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
Pursuant to discussions between staff of the Borrower, the Guarantor
and the Bank, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement and the
Guarantee Agreement as follows:
Loan Agreement
In Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, a new paragraph 4 is added to
read as follows:
“4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditures for consultants’ services
under contracts with firms costing less than $50,000 equivalent and under
contracts with individuals costing less than $20,000 equivalent.”
Guarantee Agreement
In Schedule 2, the text of Section II (Employment of Consultants) is
deleted and replaced by the following:
“1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank borrowers and by the World bank as Executing
Agency” published by the Bank in august 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the
standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank,
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
        2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to:
(a) contracts for the employment of firms of consultants estimated to cost
less than $50,000 each; or (b) contracts for the employment of individuals
Page  2
estimated to cost less than $20,000 each.  However, said exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments
of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$20,000 equivalent or above.”
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the three
originals of this letter and returning one fully signed original to us.
Sincerely,
/s/ Olivier Lafourcade
    Director and Resident Representative
    Mexico Department
    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS
 Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS
/s/ Jaime Corredor Esnaola
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
/s/ Dr. Martín Werner Wainfeld 
