Page  1
April 24, 2000
Mr. José Luis Flores Hernández 
Director General BANOBRAS 
Tecoyotitla No. 100 – 4o. Piso
Col. Florida 
México, D.F.  03010
Mr. Carlos García Moreno 
Director General de Crédito Público 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
Av. Insurgentes Sur No. 826 – 9o. Piso  
Col. Del Valle 
México, D.F.  03100
Re:
Loan 3628-ME  (Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project) 
`
Amendment to the Loan and Guarantee Agreements
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C., (the 
Borrower) dated July 8, 1993 (the Loan Agreement), as amended, entered into with 
respect to the above-captioned Project; and to the Guarantee Agreement between 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and United Mexican 
States (the Guarantor), also dated July 8, 1993. We are pleased to inform you that, 
pursuant to your request dated December 21, 1999, and our recent discussions on the 
subject, the Bank hereby agrees to amend said Loan Agreement and Guarantee Agreement 
as follows, so as to permit the creation of a new component for the rehabilitation and 
reconstruction of the federal highway network in the State of Chiapas, damaged as a 
result of natural disasters, as indicated below.
Loan Agreement
1.
A new Section 1.02 (o) is hereby inserted immediately after Section 1.02 (n), to 
read as follows in its entirety:
“(o)
“FONDEN” means Fondo de Desastres Naturales, the trust fund 
(Fideicomiso) 
established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the 
Guarantor’s Budget Law for 1996 
and the Operational Guidelines issued by the 
Guarantor’s Finance and Public Credit 
Secretariat (SHCP) (Acuerdo) on March 
31, 1999, as amended;”.
2.
A new Section 1.02 (p) is hereby inserted immediately after Section 1.02 (o), to 
read as follows in its entirety:
“(p)
“Emergency Subproject” means activities carried out for the 
rehabilitation or 
reconstruction of the federal highway network (including its 
roads, bridges and drainage 
systems) in the Guarantor’s State of Chiapas 
to overcome damage caused on or after September 
1, 1998 by natural disasters; ”.
3.
A new Section 1.02 (q) is hereby inserted immediately after Section 1.02 (p), to 
read as follows in its entirety:
“(q)
“Grant” means a non-reimbursable contribution made by the 
Borrower, out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, to an Eligible Beneficiary for an 
Emergency Subproject; and”.
4.
A new Section 1.02 (r) is hereby inserted immediately after Section 1.02 (q), to 
read as follows in its entirety:
“(r)
“Eligible Beneficiary” means any of the Guarantor’s agencies 
selected by 
FONDEN to carry out an Emergency Subproject.”.
5.
The table in paragraph (1) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement is hereby amended and 
replaced in its entirety, as set forth in the Annex to this letter.
Page  2
6. 
Paragraph (2) of the Schedule 1 to this Agreement is hereby amended by inserting  
new subparagraph (f) immediately after paragraph 2(e), to read as follows in its 
entirety:
“(f) 
the term “Emergency Works” means civil works and consultants’ 
services 
required to carry out an Emergency Subproject which has met the 
following eligibility 
criteria:
Each Emergency Subproject that the Guarantor proposes to be partially 
financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, according to the selection process 
set forth in Section III 
of the Guarantee Agreement, shall be approved by the 
Bank only if:
(i) 
the contracts were awarded within the 60 days after the date of 
the occurrence 
of the disaster;
(ii) 
the Bank is satisfied that the complete process for Emergency 
Subproject 
identification, financing, contracting and execution, 
stipulated by FONDEN’s 
Operational Guidelines referred to in Section 
1.02 of the Loan Agreement, has 
been fully complied with; and 
(iii)
Such Emergency Subproject includes the ameliorative measures, 
satisfactory to 
the Bank, to prevent negative environmental and 
social impacts, satisfactory 
to the Bank (in the case of an Emergency 
Subproject requiring road 
realignment)”.
7.
Schedule 2 to this Agreement is hereby amended by inserting a new Part D 
immediately after Part C (2) thereof, to read as follows in its entirety:
“Part D: Provision of Grants to Eligible Beneficiaries to finance 
Emergency Subprojects”.
8.
Schedule 5 (1) (a) to this Agreement is hereby amended and replaced in its 
entirety, to read as follows:
“(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (7) as 
set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;”.
Guarantee Agreement
9.
Schedule 1 to this Agreement is hereby amended by inserting  a new Section III , 
to read as follows in its entirety:
“Section III: Emergency Subproject Approval by the Bank.
1.
Each Emergency Subproject that the Guarantor proposes to the Bank, to be 
partially financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be selected in accordance 
with the following procedures:
(a)
Emergency Subprojects shall be selected by SCT, jointly with other 
government agencies, immediately after the disaster’s occurrence, through: (i) 
professional staff from the SCT’s regional centers; and (ii) staff from the central 
offices, particularly from the Dirección General de Conservación de Carreteras (DGCC). 
(b)
Each Emergency Subproject shall include civil works for: (i) 
rehabilitation or reconstruction of damaged highway infrastructure designed to prevent 
similar future damages, having an estimated life of at least 15 years; and (ii) 
drainage and subdrainage systems (bridges and culverts) designed to resist future 
damage caused by disasters of similar magnitude.
(c)
Emergency Subprojects  caused by geological failures, including road 
realignment works, shall be accompanied by ameliorative measures, satisfactory to the 
Bank,  to prevent negative environmental and social impacts resulting from the 
realignment.”.
Page  3
10.
Schedule 2, Section I. Part C is hereby amended by inserting new paragraph (5) 
immediately after paragraph (4), to read as follows in its entirety:
“5.
Civil works referred to in Part D of the Project, in the 
aggregate, and 
required to respond to natural disasters, may, with the 
Bank’s prior agreement, be procured 
through direct contracting procedures, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank 
and only to the extent allowed by 
paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines. Such procedures shall, 
inter alia, require that 
contract prices be consistent with unit prices (precios unitarios) 
established 
by agreement between SCT and the National Construction Industry Chamber (Cámara 
de la Industria de la Construcción).”.
11.
Schedule 2, Section I. Part D (1) is hereby amended by inserting new 
subparagraph “(d)”, to read as follows in its entirety:
“(d)
Contract for civil works under Part D of the Project procured 
under direct 
contracting procedures, irrespective of the contract amount, shall 
not be subject to Bank 
prior review.”
12.
Schedule 2, Section II is hereby amended and replaced in its entirety, to read 
as follows:
“(a) 
In order to assist the Guarantor in carrying out the Project, the 
Guarantor 
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.  Such 
consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the “
guidelines for the Use of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as 
Executing 
Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b)
Consultants’ services with experience and qualifications 
satisfactory to the 
Bank, under Part D of the Project, may be procured through 
sole source procedures acceptable 
to the Bank and shall not be subject to Bank 
prior review.”.  
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to 
us.  This amendment shall enter into effect as of its date above written, upon receipt 
by Bank of one of the three originals of this letter signed by you.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Olivier Lafourcade 
Director, Mexico Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, 
S.N.C.
By /s/ José Luis Flores Hernández
By /s/ Carlos García Moreno
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date: May 17, 2000
Date: May 18, 2000
Page  4
