Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6094 
Operation Name 
Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC7) 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (40%);Public administration- 
Finance (15%);General industry and trade sector (15%);General 
finance sector (15%);General agriculture, fishing and forestry 
sector (15%) 
Project ID 
P122470 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF MOZAMBIQUE 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Ministry of Finance 
Praca de Manrinha Popular 
Caixa Postal 272 
Maputo 
Mozambique 
Tel: (258 21) 311-141 Fax: (258 21) 315-043 
isaltina.lucas@mf.gov.mz 
Date PID Prepared 
November 5, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 12, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
December 16, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Mozambique has been a very strong economic performer in Africa as it recovers steadily from 
the damage of the civil war ended in 1992.  Looking back at the last fifteen years, the growth 
record has been remarkable, averaging above 8 percent from 1993 to 2009, making Mozambique 
the fastest growing non-oil economy in Sub-Saharan Africa. This performance has been made 
possible by good macroeconomic management, and was driven by a few significant foreign 
investment projects (“mega-projects”), strong donor support, healthy agricultural growth, and 
foreign direct investment in the services sector. 
Mozambique’s rapid economic growth was accompanied by significant strides in reducing 
poverty up to 2003. Household survey data indicate that the national poverty headcount fell from 
69 to 54 percent during 1996 to 2003.  Reduction in rural poverty was even more pronounced, 
declining from 71 to 55% during the same period. The preliminary results of the 2008/09 
household survey suggest poverty reduction may have stagnated at a level around 55 percent of 
the population. Additionally, the results indicate that urban poverty continued to decline, 
although at a much slower rate, reaching 50 percent, while rural poverty increased to 57 percent.
1
1
It should be noted that there are substantial concerns related to under-reporting of food consumption in the 2008/09 
household survey data which could affect both the poverty levels and their trend over time. In fact the data problem 
also affects the previous two household surveys (in 1996/97 and 2002/03), although to a different extent.  Additional 
analytical work is required to test the robustness of the preliminary results by correcting for the data problems.     
Page  2
Visible progress occurred in social conditions in the last years.  Social indicators have also 
shown significant improvements since the mid-1990s, including in: (i) Primary Education (in 
grades 1
–7) the number of children more than tripled from approximately 1.3 million in 1992 to 
4.2 million in 2008; (ii) net enrollment  in  primary education doubled from 45 percent in 1998 to 
over 96 percent in 2008; (iii) net enrollment of girls rose from 40 percent to 93 percent in the 
same period; (iiii) infant mortality decreased from 145 per 1,000 live births in 1996 to 93 in 
2008; (v) maternal mortality was reduced from an estimated 1,000 per 100,000 live births in the 
early 1990s to  340 in 2007 and (vi) and the share of the population with access to an improved 
water source increased from 39 percent in 1995 to 48 percent in 2008. 
Mozambique has made substantial progress towards achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs). Given the results of the recent household survey mentioned above, Mozambique 
needs to accelerate poverty reduction to halve the population living in absolute poverty by 2015 
(additional 15 percent decline in poverty in six years).  As mentioned, reducing hunger and child 
malnutrition remains a challenge.  The MDG for sustainable coverage for water supply could 
also be met, given the rapid improvements in the provision of urban water supply, although 
significant progress is needed to increase access to water in rural areas.  There has also been 
substantial progress toward other MDG targets, specifically on improving universal primary 
education, gender equality and women’s empowerment, reducing child mortality, and improving 
maternal health.  Nevertheless, more progress will be required to meet these MDGs, while 
combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases remains a serious challenge.  
Despite the promising progress, significant challenges remain. The country remains poor 
(USD440 per capita income in 2009, using the Atlas methodology), social indicators are low, 
infrastructure is inadequate, and the business environment remains unfriendly. Adult literacy 
rates are low (approximately 47 percent), and life expectancy at birth remains very low (42 
years).  Despite economic growth, malnutrition has worsened in Mozambique from 2003 to 2008 
with the percentage of chronically malnourished children (stunted) increasing from 44 percent to 
48 percent. The country also relies heavily on foreign aid, which makes up about half of its 
overall budget.  Additionally, malaria alone accounts for 35 percent of deaths among children 
below five years of age, 60 percent of admissions in pediatric wards, and 40 percent of overall 
outpatient consultations.  It has been found that in Sub-Saharan Africa, malaria reduces GDP 
growth by an estimated average of 1.3 percent per year.  As for HIV/AIDS, current projections 
indicate that in 2010 the Mozambican economy will be 14-20 percent smaller than it would 
otherwise be due to the impact of HIV/AIDS.
2
Constraints to private sector development and trade remain substantial, and much more progress 
is required to improve the business environment.  Mozambique ranked 135
th
 out of 183 countries 
in the 2010 Ease of Doing Business, improving five positions from the 140
th
 place out 183 
countries in 2009 report. However, the country ranking in the Trade Logistics Performance Index 
worsened, from 110
th
 out of 150 countries in the 2007 report to 136
th
 out of 155 countries in 
the 
2010 report.
3
Mozambique is 130th (out of 180) on the 2009 Transparency International 
2
It should be noted that supporting the government in the elusive goal of more effective HIV prevention remains a 
central part of the Bank's agenda in Mozambique (notably through the HIV/AIDS response project) even if not in 
this series of budget support operations.   
3
On the six core dimensions Mozambique ranks close to bottom on 
“Frequency with which shipments reach the 
consignee within the scheduled or expected time” and on “Efficiency of the customs clearance process”, 150
th 
and 
Page  3
Corruption Perceptions Index, four positions worst than its 126
th
 place in 2008.  In the 2009 
Worldwide Governance Indicators Mozambique surpasses the SSA and low income group 
averages on all six aspects of the index (voice and accountability, political stability, government 
effectiveness, regulatory quality, rule of law, and control of corruption).  
Progress in public sector governance has been mixed.  Significant progress has been made in 
improving transparency and accountability by strengthening Public Financial Management 
systems, including the areas of procurement and internal and external audit. Also there has been 
progress towards improving the management of natural resources, notably by strengthening the 
legal framework regulating the fiscal regimes for mining and petroleum in 2007.  In addition, in 
May 2009 Mozambique was accepted as a candidate to the Extractive Industry Transparency 
Initiative (EITI) and has since appointed the EITI permanent national coordinator, hired staff for 
the national EITI secretariat, and convened the first EITI multistakeholder meeting.  Progress 
however remains limited in other areas. For example, improvements in the efficiency and 
transparency of the justice system remain elusive, and corruption and conflict-of-interest remain 
central issues. Also, despite some recent progress, implementation of the public sector reforms 
program remains slow.  
Economic growth continues to be strong, but the structure of the economy remains narrow. 
Rapid economic growth continues to be made possible by overall macroeconomic stability, 
continuing strong donor support, and mega-project investments. Nevertheless, the productive 
base of the economy remains narrow, and is focused on subsistence agriculture and a few 
isolated mega-projects.
4
Agriculture, which employs about 78 percent of the economically active 
population, accounted for 25 percent of GDP in 2009; followed by the manufacturing at 12 
percent (mostly accounted for by one large aluminum smelter), trade and retail services at 11 
percent; transport and communications at 10 percent; financial services at 7 percent; and 
extractive industries at one percent. 
Reflecting the composition of GDP, the export basket remains extremely limited with only 
fifteen products registering exports in excess of USD1 million.  
Overall Mozambique’s exports 
increased significantly (in real terms), with average growth rates of 14.9 percent and 19.8 percent 
in 1995-1999 and 2000-2008, respectively. Most of this growth, however, was driven by exports 
from mega-projects; excluding mega-projects, exports grew by 10 percent on average during 
2000-2008. In fact, more than half of Mozambique’s exports remain concentrated in an enclave 
aluminum smeltering. 
 
The medium-term macroeconomic outlook is positive.  Real GDP growth is expected to reach 
6.5 percent in 2010 and increase back to the 7-8 percent range by 2011 and beyond The sixth 
review of the PSI program concluded in June 2010 that the prospects for 2010-2012 remained 
favorable, including for continuous growth, single digit inflation, and the maintenance of a 
sustainable external and fiscal situation, as the government is committed to take the necessary 
fiscal measures and pursue a monetary program consistent with single-digit inflation. The 
government intends to continue to strengthen public financial management and public debt 
145
th
,
respectively. The country ranked 130
th
 on “Logistic quality and competence”; 124
th
 
on  “Quality of trade and 
transport-related infrastructure; and 87
th
,
the country best rank, on “Easy to arrange competitively price shipments.”
 
4
Megaprojects in Mozambique are mainly non-ferrous metal factories, which is highly capital intensive. For 
example, it represented 62% of the production value of the whole manufacturing sector in 2005 and just 3.3% of the 
sector’s employment, slightly more than 1,000 jobs.    
Page  4
management, foster private sector development, and move forward the public sector reform. The 
macroeconomic framework is adequate for the purpose of the proposed operation.  
Looking at the medium term, the authorities wish to further accelerate th
e
country’s economic 
development, while reshaping its patterns to benefit larger segments of the population.  The 
Government of Mozambique understands the benefits of a solid underlying macroeconomic 
framework and has been implementing an active program of structural reforms. Following the 
recent social unrest and the results from the Third Poverty Assessment Report, the government 
has indicated the desire to design a more inclusive, labor intensive, transformative growth 
agenda to accelerate poverty reduction and to improve living standards of the population. Mega 
projects and improved and expanded infrastructure alone will not achieve these objectives.  
There is momentum for continuing the reforms program and striving to reach even higher growth 
rates as businesses’ interest to expand and initiate operations in Mozambique is clear. As 
articulated in the 2009 CEM, Mozambique has a vast, diversified economic potential, including 
mining, energy, agribusiness, fishing, forestry, tourism, light manufacturing, and transport and 
logistics services.5  However, there are many constraints that prevent a more dynamic business 
growth and employment creation and the structure of the economy remains narrowly focused 
around subsistence agriculture and megaprojects.6 The challenge for Mozambique is how to 
sustain high growth and redesign its pattern to generate more employment.
7
2. Operation 
Objectives 
 
The proposed PRSC-7 is the second in a PRSC series of three annual single-tranche operations to 
be delivered over FY10-12.  The PRSC series is harmonized with the joint donor (G19) 
mechanism for the provision of general budget support.
 
All the proposed prior actions and 
triggers for this PRSC series are drawn from the joint PAF and the ‘Political and Economic 
Governance Reforms Matrix’ agreed by the government and G19 in March, 2010, remaining 
consistent with the government’s own monitoring framework. The PRSC series supports 
objectives from the PARPA II results matrix.  As in
t
ermediate outcomes the PRSC series 
supports improvements in: (i) Macroeconomic management: To consolidate and dee
pe
n
institutional reforms to improve the use of public resources through better budget formulation, 
stronger public financial management systems, stronger oversight, and civil service wage and 
pension reform; and (ii) Economic development: To continue to support broad-based growth by 
reducing the excessive regulation constraining business activities, improving the information 
basis for access to credit, simplifying the regulatory environment for business development and 
promoting more efficient use and better access to land, and strengthening the legal and 
5
Mozambique has a largely untapped potential in electricity production and in mining in general. These projects, 
although important for the country, create relatively few jobs. The government wants to maximize the economic, 
social and environmental benefits from these projects to be able to finance poverty reduction programs and reduce 
aid-dependency.  
6
Major constraints include complex trade and tax regime; still inadequate and inefficient transport logistics; lack of 
articulation, standards, and facilitated technology diffusion; rigidity in the land tenure system; and shortage of 
skilled labor force. Over-regulation and arbitrary interpretation of rules add a significant burden to business start-up 
and operation, particularly among foreign investors. 
7
The government has also to continue investing in health and education. While productivity might benefit from 
greater efficiency in spending and improvements in the private sector’s regulatory environment, it can’t happen 
without gains in labor productivity resulting from a healthier and more skilled labor force. 
Page  5
institutional framework for concessions, public private partnerships, and large investment 
projects, including in the exploitation of natural resources. 
 
The PRSC-7 supports reforms to improve macroeconomic management by expanding the use of 
direct budget execution through the e-SISTAFE, increasing the coverage of internal control, and 
increasing the coverage and efficiency of external audit.  In terms of economic development, the 
PRSC-
7
supports the government’s efforts: to improve the business climate for the operation of 
the private sector by introducing measures to simplify import and exports procedures; to reduce 
speculation in undeveloped land by adjusting land tax to account for inflation in the past years; to 
achieve membership of the EITI initiative; and to make mandatory the use of International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) in large and medium firms.  
 
The triggers (and prior actions) have been selected based on their criticality for contributing to 
achieving the PARPA-II objectives.  The prior actions have been selected following two broad 
principles: (i) The trigger entails a policy or institutional reform which is critical to remove a key 
constraint to poverty reduction and growth (based on the findings of existing analytical work), or 
is an implementation activity of a reform initiated earlier; (ii) The trigger is part of the 
Performance Assessment Framework (PAF)
 
or the ‘Political and Economic Governance Reforms 
Matrix’.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The PRSC series is a key component of the Country Partnership Strategy approved by the Board 
in May 2007, and closely aligned to the Government program. Bank support to the PARPA II is 
through the FY08-11 Country Partnership Strategy (CPS; Report No. 39395-Moz).  As 
government policies and budget are the key instruments for implementing the PARPA, the Bank 
is committed to supporting and aligning with the budget process. The indicative lending scenario 
of the CPS envisages programmatic support through consecutive PRSCs, with a focus on 
supporting Mozambique’s efforts in increasing accountability and public voice and fostering 
sustainable and broad-based growth. In line with the Government program, and as reflected in 
the CPS, the program supported by the PRSC series recognizes the centrality of the growth 
agenda and the importance of enhanced public financial management reforms.   
 
4. 
 
Financing 
 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
85 
 Total 
85 
 
5. 
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The PRSC series is aligned with the harmonized system for the provision of the joint General 
Budget Support program of the G19 (for details see website: 
http://www.pap.org.mz/
). In order 
to reduce the transaction costs for the Government, the Bank carries out all supervision jointly 
Page  6
with the other donors. It participates in the Troika Plus (consisting of three donors/a chair/co-
chair and outgoing chair, forming the troika chairmanship 
–
EC and WB are permanent 
members, thus forming the Troika Plus), the overall coordination mechanism set up by the G-19, 
and all the relevant coordination meetings. All Bank sector missions working for the PRSC team 
liaise closely with and through the respective joint sector working groups to assure maximum 
coordination with all other sector partners. 
The MoU defines two key review events per year. A Joint Review takes place each year in April 
(year n). It assesses the performance of the government in the previous budget year, which 
corresponds to the calendar year (year n-1).  The review focuses on evaluating progress with 
regard to the indicators defined in the PAF and makes an overall assessment of progress, 
resulting in disbursement commitments for the following year (year n+1). The second event is 
the ‘Planning Meetings’ in September. This review is forward-looking and formalizes the 
agreement on the performance indicators and targets for the following year (year n+1). 
Programmatic lending will be complemented by investment support. PRSC support will coexist 
with investment support to well-articulated sector programs, and with technical assistance to 
develop government systems and capacities necessary for an increased reliance on them. 
In addition, the supervision of the PRSC is done on a continuous basis in harmonization with the 
other general budget support donors, through the monthly joint government-donor steering 
committee meetings.  Progress in each sector is monitored by joint government-donor sector 
working groups.  Bank staff actively participates in these meetings through its staff in the field 
offices and Washington (through missions or by videoconference). The Task Team Leader for 
the operation is based in the field. Furthermore, the Bank participates in joint IMF-Bank 
missions to monitor progress in the macroeconomic framework. The Bank and the Fund also 
monitor jointly progress in implementing the PARPA-II.  
 
6. 
Benefits and Risks 
 
Benefits:
 The operation will help the GoM to maintain macroeconomic stability while it 
continues to pursue a reform agenda that cannot be fully financed from domestic sources. The 
reforms should enable Mozambique to make progress in reducing absolute poverty, improving 
the delivery of services and achieving the MDGs.  
 
Risks:
 There are the main areas of risk: macro, political and capacity. The first set of risks 
concerned with the potential for macroeconomic shocks and the impact it could have on the 
implementation and achievements of the government reform program.  Whilst shocks may come 
from a variety sources we associate the highest risks to shocks coming from negative changes in 
the world economy that would manifest themselves through deteriorating terms of trade or 
absence of FDI, or by the impact of unpredictable reductions in donor disbursements, especially 
through budget support.  As for mitigation measures, the government country has developed a 
good and well tested model to dampen the impact of these shocks by building a high level of 
reserves, maintaining a flexible exchange rate regime, and keeping low external debt 
vulnerability.  Additionally, Mozambique has a stable relationship with the IMF, anchored on a 
Policy Support Instrument (PSI), which contributes to solid macroeconomic management.  As 
for measures to avoid potential shocks coming from unpredictable lower levels of donor support, 
the maintenance of very active and fluid communications between the government and 
Page  7
development partners can partially mitigate this risk. Over the long run, government is keen to 
continue to build its own revenue base to gradually reduce dependency of foreign aid.  All 
together we consider this risk to be low.  
A
second area of risk is the absence of consensus to institute some reforms centered around the 
growth agenda.  The PRSC series supports substantive reforms in land administration with a 
view to promote more efficient land utilization, including a reduction in speculative practices by 
the reforms to the existing land tax regime.  Land tax changes will require very strong political 
will given the vested interest of current landholders.  A strategy to improve the business climate 
was approved in 2008, but its implementation has been slow. To mitigate these risks the 
government, with support from the Bank and other donors, is taking actions to create consensus 
to implement reforms on land use and taxation and business regulations. On land tax reform, the 
government is planning a National Land Policy Forum in 2010 that will involve all stakeholders 
in a forward-looking policy dialogue regarding the implementation of the Land Law.  In the area 
of improving business regulations the government is working with the assistance of the Bank 
(the Competitiveness and Private Sector Development Project) in the development of a detailed 
Action Plan to implement the reforms.  Perhaps most importantly, there is a heightened 
realization in government of a need to rebalance its growth strategy towards more inclusive and 
job-creating growth. This risk at this point is moderate to high.  
A
third set of risks concerns possible delays in implementing areas of the reforms program 
across all areas, as a result of the weak capacity.
 
Limited institutional capacity in many agencies 
limits the scope and speed of reforms in all the areas supported by the PRSC.   In order to 
mitigate this risk, the team intends to increase its engagement at the technical level by facilitating 
the preparation of the necessary technical underpinnings which will be required to implement the 
reforms. The risk is moderate. 
 
7. 
Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
Poverty and Social Aspects 
The poverty reduction impact of the policies supported by the series is expected to be significant. 
The PRSC series contribute for the improvement   of the use of public resources through better 
budget preparation and execution, stronger public financial management systems, and stronger 
oversight. As public financial management improves, public expenditures become more efficient 
resulting in larger benefits for the population as more and superior public services become 
available. Additionally, as efficiency increases, fiscal space is created and more resources 
become available to finance policies targeted on poverty reduction. The public pension reform is 
needed to guarantee its long term sustainability.  The Bank is supporting the government by 
financing a Diagnostic and Actuarial Studies for pension reform. The team will continue to work 
very close with the government to monitor potential distributional and social aspects of the 
reform.  
Policies contributing to job creation have important impact on poverty reduction. The PRSC 
actions continue to support broad-based growth by reducing the excessive regulation 
constraining business activities, improving the information basis for access to credit, simplifying 
the regulatory environment for business development and promoting more efficient use and 
better access to land, and strengthening the legal and institutional framework for concessions, 
Page  8
public private partnerships, and large investment projects, including in the exploitation of natural 
resources. All these actions contribute to create an environment conducive to business activity 
and job creation, a necessary condition to further reduce poverty in Mozambique as close to three 
quarters of the working age population is working in agriculture and less than 15 percent have a 
formal salaried job.  
Environmental Aspects 
The reforms supported in this PRSC series are not expected to have significant positive or 
negative effects on the environment, forest and other natural resources.
 
The PRSC series 
supports policy actions that create the enabling environment to support poverty reduction, and 
which by themselves do not have an environmental impact.  It is expected, however, that regular 
private and public investment activities which may result from such policy actions, could have 
impacts on the environment. The Bank is working to help the government to develop and 
implement appropriate policies in the areas of natural resources, environment and adaptation to 
climate change.  Thus, neither specific environmental studies nor environmental impact 
management measures are anticipated for this measure.   
Beyond the need to ensure that the environmental impacts of reform supported by the PRSC is 
mitigated, the sustainable use of Mozambique's natural resources (land, mining, fisheries, 
forestry, water) represents a great opportunity for poverty reduction as well as social and 
economic development, and needs to be strengthened.   
 
8. Contact point 
 
Contact: Ricardo Gazel 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel: (+258) 21482300 
Fax:  (+258) 21492893 
Email: rgazel@worldbank.org 
Location: Maputo, Mozambique (IBRD) 
 
9. 
For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
Contact: Ricardo Costa Gazel 
Title: Senior Economist 
Tel:  
Fax:  
Email: rgazel@worldbank.org 
Location: Maputo, Mozambique (IBRD) 
Page  9
1.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
