                                          CONFORMED COPY


                                  CREDIT NUMBER 4844 - MZ




Financing Agreement
   (Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Credit)


                    between


        REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE


                      and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




           Dated December 17, 2010
                                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 4844 - MZ

                                 FINANCING AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT dated December 17, 2010, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
MOZAMBIQUE (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as defined in
the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the Program and
which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s
maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. The Recipient and the
Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

                 ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute an
        integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement have
        the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to this
        Agreement.



                                 ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set forth
        or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to fifty four million one
        hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 54,100,000) (variously, “Credit” and
        “Financing).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the Program in
        accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Unwithdrawn
        Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall be
        equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.
                                                -2-




                                 ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To this
        end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
                party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework and
                the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section,
                the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any situation that would
                have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program or any
                action taken under the Program including any action specified in Section I of
                Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                   ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a situation has
        arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
        carried out.

                    ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, the
        Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the
        Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement.

                    ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its minister in charge of Planning and Development.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

                Ministry of Planning and Development
                Av. Ahmed S. Toure, 21, 4th floor
                Maputo
                Republic of Mozambique

                Telephone:               Facsimile:

                (258) 21 492-268         (258) 21 492-625
                                                 -3-



6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable address:           Telex:                Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                  248423(MCI)           1-202-477-6391
               Washington, D.C.


       AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.


                                REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE




                                By
                                                                   /s/ Amelia Matos Sumbana
                                                                    Authorized Representative


                                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                                By
                                                                   /s/ Shantayanan Devarajan
                                                                   Authorized Representative
                                                -4-



                                         SCHEDULE 1

                    Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions under the Program

        The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program are the following:

1.      The Recipient’s Ministry of Finance has ensured that during FY 2009: (i) 90 percent of
        the total value of budgetary expenditures for goods, services, and investments for the
        Budget Execution Units (Unidades Gestoras Executoras) with access to the integrated
        electronic financial management system(e-SISTAFE), has been incurred through e-
        SISTAFE under Direct Budget Execution; and (ii) at least 10 percent of said Budget
        Execution Units’ total wage bill has been incurred under Direct Budget Execution.

2.      The Recipient’s Ministry of Finance has established internal control units in at least 75
        percent of its central and provincial level agencies, namely, the ministries, provincial
        directorates and autonomous units.

3.      The Recipient’s Court of Accounts has expanded audit coverage of the State Budget from
        30 percent in FY 2008 to at least 35 percent in FY 2009, according to INTOSAI technical
        standards and according to the laws of the Recipient.

4.      The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has approved the mandatory implementation of
        international financial reporting standards (IFRS) in: (i) large private enterprises
        (consisting of more than 500 employees) starting in FY 2010; and (ii) medium private
        enterprises (consisting of 250 to 500 employees) starting in FY 2011.

5.      The Recipient’s Minister of Agriculture has issued a decree to update tax rates for the use
        of land to account for inflation.

6.      The Recipient’s Council of Ministers has issued a decree regulating complete pre-arrival
        clearance of goods and creating the figure of the reliable and trustworthy customs agents.

7.      The Recipient’s Ministry of Mineral Resources has: (i) appointed to the Extractive
        Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) a permanent national coordinator; (ii)
        adequately staffed its EITI secretariat; and (iii) held the first meeting of the EITI multi-
        stakeholders.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association may
        specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single withdrawal
        tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Financing. The
        allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:
                                              -5-




                                                    Amount of the Financing Allocated
                 Allocations                              (expressed in SDR)

          Single Withdrawal Tranche                            54,100,000

             TOTAL AMOUNT                                      54,100,000

C.   Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions

     No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is
     satisfied (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; and (b) with the
     appropriateness of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.   Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:

1.   all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the Association into an
     account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the Association; and

2.   the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into this
     account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget management
     system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.

E.   Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

1.   have the account and the recording of the amounts of the Financing into the Recipient’s
     budget management system referred to in Part D of this Section audited by independent
     auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
     standards acceptable to the Association;

2.   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
     after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of th e report of
     such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request;
     and

3.   furnish to the association such other information concerning the said account and
     recording of the amounts of the Financing into the budget management system, and their
     audit, as the Association shall reasonably request.

F.    Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing
     shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any
     time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded
     Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an
     amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the
     Association upon such request shall be cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is March 31, 2011.
                                             -6-



                                       SCHEDULE 2

                                    Repayment Schedule

                                                           Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                                      repayable
                  Date Payment Due                          (expressed as a percentage)*
 On each February 15 and August 15:

 commencing February 15, 2021 to and including                           1%
 August 15, 2030

 commencing February 15, 2031 to and including                           2%
 August 15, 2050


* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be repaid,
except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of the General
Conditions.
                                               -7-



                                          APPENDIX

Section I. Definitions

1.      “Budget Execution Units” means the Recipient’s Unidades Gestoras Executoras as
        defined by Chapter III of the Recipient’s Regulamento do Sistema de Administração
        Financeira do Estado, and approved by the Recipient’s Decree 23/2004 of
        August 20, 2004, and published in the Recipient’s Boletim da Repùblica on
        August 20, 2004.

2.      “Council of Ministers” means the Recipient’s Conselho de Ministros as defined by Title
        VIII, Chapter I of the Recipient’s Constitution of the Republic Mozambique (1990, as
        amended 2004).

3.      “Court of Accounts” means the Tribunal Administrativo of Mozambique, the creation and
        powers of which are provided for in Title IX, Chapter III, Section III of the Recipient’s
        Constitution of the Republic Mozambique (1990, as amended 2004).

4.      “Direct Budget Execution” means a modality for authorizing expenditures consisting of
        three phases: the commitment of the expenditures, the liquidation when resources are
        assigned for payment and the actual payment to the supplier of goods or services.

5.      “Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative” and the acronym “EITI” mean the non-
        profit association consisting of representatives from governments and their agencies; oil,
        gas and mining companies; investors; asset management companies and pension funds,
        local civil society groups and international non-governmental organizations engaged in a
        voluntary global compact for the improvement of transparency in countries that are
        dependent on extractive industries, established in 2002 pursuant to the laws of the
        Kingdom of Norway.

6.      “e-SISTAFE” means the Recipient’s electronic integrated financial management system,
        as created and mandated by the Recipient’s law Lei no. 09/2002 of February 12, 2002.

7.      “Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or the
                Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank has
                financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the
                United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC),
                or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as
                designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient:
                                          -8-



                     Group            Sub-group                Description of Item
                     112                                       Alcoholic beverages
                     121                                       Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                               tobacco refuse
                     122                                       Tobacco, manufactured
                                                               (whether or not containing
                                                               tobacco substitutes)
                     525                                       Radioactive and associated
                                                               materials
                     667                                       Pearls, precious and
                                                               semiprecious stones,
                                                               unworked or worked
                     718              718.7                    Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                               thereof; fuel elements
                                                               (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                                               for nuclear reactors
                     728              728.43                   Tobacco processing
                                                               machinery
                     897              897.3                    Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                               platinum group metals
                                                               (except watches and watch
                                                               cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                               silversmiths’ wares
                                                               (including set gems)
                     971                                       Gold, non-monetary
                                                               (excluding gold ores and
                                                               concentrates)

     (c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
            consumption;

     (d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of which is
            prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international agreements to which
            the Recipient is a party;

     (e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
            Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
            and

     (f)    with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
            collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
            Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the Recipient (or
            other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to
            the Association to address such practices when they occur.

8.   “Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the fiscal year of the Recipient commencing on January 1
     and ending on December 31 of each year.
                                               -9-



9.      “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association General
        Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set forth
        in Section II of this Appendix.

10.     “IFRS” means International Financial Reporting Standards, a set of international
        financial reporting standards for general purpose financial statements set by the
        International Accounting Standards Board, the independent standard-setting body of the
        International Accounting Standards Committee Foundation.

11.     “INTOSAI” means the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions, an
        autonomous and independent, non-government organization, with headquarters in Vienna
        Austria.

12.     “Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to promote
        growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or referred to in the
        letter dated November 2, 2010, from the Recipient to the Association declaring the
        Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from
        the Association in support of the Program during its execution.

13.     “Single Withdrawal Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section
        II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

14.     “State Budget” means the Recipient’s Orçamento do Estado, the Recipient’s State
        Budget as defined by Article 130 of the Recipient’s Constitution of the Republic
        Mozambique (1990, as amended 2004).

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in their
        entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.      Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in
        Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above and
        relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.
                                           -10-



5.   Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
     modified to read as follows:

            “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

            …         (c)     The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
            bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Financing
            until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall enable the
            Association’s representatives to examine such records.”

6.   Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to read as
     follows:

            “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

            …       (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish
            to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of
            such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
            execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient and the Association
            of their respective obligations under the Legal Agreements and the
            accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.”

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted as
     follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order to
     the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in support
            of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the
            Financing Agreement.”

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the Appendix
            are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is modified
            to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support
            of which the Financing is made.” All references to “Project” throughout these
            General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”.
