Document of
The World Bank
Report No.13566-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILLIPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
JANaARY 27, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Philippine Peso (P)
US$1.00 - P28.0
(as of June 1994)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB           -    Asian Development Bank
AIDAB         -    Australian International Development
Assistance Bureau
BMI           -    Body Mass Index
CAS           -    Country Assistance Strategy
CHCA          -    Comprehensive Health Care Agreement
DOH           -    Department of Health
DHS           -    Demographic and Health Survey
EC            -     European Commission
ICB           -     International Competitive Bidding
IEC           -     Information, Education and Communication
KfW           -    Kreditanstalt far Wiederaufbau of Germany
LCB           -    Local Competitive Bidding
LGU           -    Local Government Unit
LIB           -    Limited International Bidding
MCH           -    Maternal and Child Health
NGO           -    Non-governmental Organization
OSC           -    Office of Special Concerns
PHC           -    Primary Health Care
PIA           -    Project Implementation Agreement
PMO           -     Project Management Office
POPCOM        -    Population Commission
PPAR          -    Project Performance Audit Report
RTI           -    Reproductive Tract Infection
SOE           -     Statement of Expenditures
STD           -     Sexually-Transmitted Disease
UNFPA         -    United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF        -    United Nations Children's Fund
USAID         -    United States Agency for International
Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
DEFINITIONS ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    iv
LOAN  AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  v
I.   THE  SECTOR    ....   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .  .   .  1
A.   Background    ....   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  1
Country Background   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
Sector Background  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  1
B.   Issues in Women's Health  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Under-investment in Women's Health   . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Limited Availability of Women's Health Services  . . . . .    3
Institutional Issues   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  6
C.   Strategy for Sector Development . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
Country Development Goals and Strategies   . . . . . . . .    7
Health Sector Strategy and the Implications of Devolution     8
Bank Experience and Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
II.   THE    PROJECT  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  11
A.   Objectives  and  Scope  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  11
B.   Project  Description   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
Component I:  Service Delivery   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
Maternal Care  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    12
Family Planning  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    13
Diagnosis and Treatment of RTIs/STDs   . . . . . . . . .   13
Detection and Treatment of Cervical Cancer   . . . . . .   14
Life Cycle Approach  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    14
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the
Philippines conducted jointly in June 1994 with the project's four
cofinanciers (the Asian Development Bank, the Australian International
Development Assistance Bureau, the European Commission and Kreditanstalt
far Wiederaufbau of Germany). The World Bank mission comprised S. Scheyer,
M. Dalupan, R. Lakshminarayanan, J. Martins, C. Verzosa, R. Ng, C. Hsu,
P. Prangkham, V. Vijayaverl and M. El-Erian. C. Fogle and R. Heaver
contributed to the preparation of the project. The contributions of the
following consultants funded under a Japanese Grant for Project Preparation
are also acknowledged: M. Clark, R. Gutteridge, H. Khajepour, B. Alano,
R. Libatique, M. Taguiwalo, M. Enache and R. Capul. Peer reviewers for
the project were A. Tinker (PHN), B. Duza (SA2PH) and M. Mac Donald (ASTHR).
The report was cleared by Messrs. J. Shivakumar (Chief, EA1HR) and
C. E. Madavo (Director, EAl).



- ii -
Page No.
II. THE PROJECT (cont.)
Component II:   Institutional Development    . . . . . .16
Information,  Education and Communication    . . . . . . .    16
Training     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  16
Logistics    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  17
Project Management    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    18
Component III:   Community Partnerships    . . . . . . . . .    18
Component IV:   Policy and Operations Research  . . . . . .    19
Technical Assistance Summary    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENTS   . . . .    20
A.    Cost Estimates   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    20
B.    Financing    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  22
C.    Procurement   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  23
D.   Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
A.    Organization   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    28
B.    Project Implementation Under Devolution . . . . . . . . . .    29
CHCAs   and   PIAs  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  30
Resource Allocation and Cost-Sharing    . . . . . . . . . .    30
C.    Accounts and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
D.   Progress Reviews and Reporting   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
E.    Project Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
V.    PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND IMPACT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    33
A.    Benefits    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  33
B.    Risks  .      .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  34
C.    Impact    .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .  34
D.    Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    35
TEXT TABLES
Table 3.1:  Summary of Project Costs by Component  . . . . . . .    20
Table 3.2:   Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure                  21
Table 3.3:   Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
Table 3.4:   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements   . . . . .    24
Table 3.5:   Disbursement Categories   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    27



- iii -
Page No.
LIST   OF   ANNEXES    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  38
1:  Public Investment Strategy and Plan for the Health Sector      39
2:  List of Provinces Targeted for Intensive Coverage by the
Maternal Care, RTIs/STDs and Cervical Cancer Sub-components    45
3:  Maternal Care Sub-component . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   46
4:  List of Drugs, Reagents and Medical Supplies for Other
Women's Health Service  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   54
5:  Information, Education and Communication Sub-component  . .   56
6:  Description of Training for Health Care Workers . . . . . .   58
7:  Public Financing of Health in the Post-Devolution Era . . .   67
8:  Decision Support Models for Central-Local Financing
of Public Investments in Health: Conceptual Framework
and  Application   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  73
9:  Project Management and Implementation Arrangements  . . . .   79
10:  Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . .   87
11:  Project Monitoring Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   97
12:  Costs by Component, Category of Expenditure, Project Year
and  Cofinancier   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  107
13:    Procurement  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  114
14:  Disbursement Schedule and Profile . . . . . . . . . . . . .  115
15:    Supervision  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  116
16:  Selected Documents Available in the Project File  . . . . .  118
MAP SECTION
IBRD 26586






- iv -
DEFINITIONS
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate   The percentage of married women of reproductive
age (15 to 45 years) who are using a modern
method of contraception at any time
Incidence Rate                   Number of new cases of a specific disease
during a given year divided by the estimated
population at mid-year times 1000
Infant Mortality Rate            Annual number of deaths of infants under one
year per 1,000 live births during the same year
Lifetime Risk of Death           Cumulative risk of death from motherhood
(calculated as 1 - (l-MMRatio) TFR); indicates
risks associated with each pregnancy and number
of times a woman becomes pregnant
Low Birth Weight                 Infant weight at birth less than 2,500 grams;
may be associated with either pre-term (less
than 37 weeks gestation) or full-term (38 weeks
or more) but small for dates of gestation
Maternal Mortality Rate          Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 women
of reproductive age attributable to pregnancy,
childbearing or puerperal complications (i.e.,
within six weeks following childbirth)
Maternal Mortality Ratio         Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 births
(MMRatio)                       attributable to pregnancy, childbearing or
puerperal complications (i.e., within six weeks
following childbirth)
Morbidity                        Any departure, subjective or objective, from a
state of physiological or psychological well-
being; in this sense, sickness, illness, and
morbid conditions are synonymous
Prevalence Rate                  The number of cases present at a given time
divided by the estimated population at the same
time times 1000
Risk                             A probability that an unfavorable outcome
related to morbidity or mortality will occur
within a stated period of time or age
Total Fertility Rate (TFR)        The average number of live children that would
be born per woman if she were to live to the
end of her childbearing years and bear children
according to a given set of age-specific
fertility rates; serves as an estimate of the
average number of children per family






PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of the Philippines
Guarantor:             Not applicable
Implementing Agencv:   Department of Health
Beneficiary:           Not applicable
Povertv:               Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                US$18.0 million equivalent
Terms:                 Repayable over 20 years, including five
years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate
Commitment Fee:        0.75% on undisbursed Loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver
OnlendinE Terms:        Not applicable
Financing Plan:        See para. 3.6
Net Present Value:      Not applicable
iIap:                   IBRD 26586






PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Background
Country Background
1.1      At the beginning of the 1970s, incomes in the Philippines were at
levels similar to those in Korea, Indonesia and Malaysia. During the 1980s,
these countries grew at an average of over six percent per year, compared to
the Philippines' rate of less than one percent. Poverty reduction in the
Philippines lagged because of the slow growth; moreover, the growth was
concentrated in the higher-wage formal sector protected by minimum wage
legislation and did not benefit the majority of the population that worked in
the agriculture and informal sectors. Slow economic growth, combined with the
effects of political crises and natural disasters, left the Philippines in 1992
with a real per capita income 7.2% lower than in 1980.
1.2      Similarly, while health, nutrition and fertility conditions in the
Philippines have improved over the past two decades, progress has occurred at
a slower pace than in most East Asian countries, due to the country's sluggish
growth and lower levels of investment in health. The infant mortality rate,
for example, was comparable to the rates in China and Thailand in the 1970s,
but is now twice as high as in these two countries. The incidence of
communicable diseases, notably tuberculosis, is also considerably worse in the
Philippines than in countries of comparable socio-economic status. High rates
of fertility, linked to a weak commitment to family planning programs, have
contributed both to slow per capita economic growth and to increased mortality,
morbidity and malnutrition rates among women and young children.
1.3      The Philippine economy has improved in the past two years, with growth
rates estimated at 2.4% and 5% for 1993 and 1994, respectively. Prospects are
favorable that this recovery, led by rises in domestic demand, net exports and
foreign direct investment, will continue into the near future. The need
remains, however, to channel the country's macroeconomic gains into programs
that support the Government's human resource development and poverty
alleviation objectives, and translate into measurable improvements in the
health status of the population.
Sector Background
1.4      The Department of Health (DOH) has been the main health policy-
making and implementing agency of the Government. DOH policies have undergone
significant shifts in the last decade. In the early 1980s, the Government
initiated a community-based primary health care (PHC) program to improve the
outreach of health services to the poor, with particular focus on maternal and
child health (MCH). The PHC program, which reached near national coverage by
1985, involved strengthening the para-medical midwife cadre to a coverage of
about one per 10,000 population, and recruiting volunteer barangay (i.e.,
village) health workers at a target ratio of one for every 20 households.



- 2 -
Simultaneously, the vertical structure of disease control programs was largely
dismantled in the expectation that they would be integrated into the PHC
program.
1.5      The PHC strategy had mixed results.  Outreach and community
involvement grew rapidly, but the technical integrity of the preventive
programs quickly deteriorated, leading to significant increases in cases of
malaria and tuberculosis, among others. It was recognized that the technical
complexity of the disease control programs--with their specialized training,
task scheduling and equipment needs--fit poorly into the PHC structure.
Vertical logistic and technical supervision systems for the disease control
and immunization programs were thus reinstalled in 1987.
1.6      Health workers at the periphery, including midwives and barangay
health workers, were also unable to meet the growing demands placed on them
by the PHC strategy, both in terms of health service delivery and community
mobilization. Their original focus on providing maternal care and support to
the expanding child health program was undermined by having to handle a
multiplicity of clients and interventions. In response, the DOH introduced in
the late 1980s a targeted area-based planning process in which communities,
health workers and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) worked in partnership
to identify the highest risk communities and families in their area and
concentrate resources on them. Successive Governments also increased the
numbers of midwives to the present midwife to population ratio of 1:5,000.
1.7      Area-based planning was part of the broader health sector strategy
adopted in 1987 by the Aquino Government. This Administration increased
resource allocations to the health sector from 2.7% to 3.0% of public
expenditures, succeeded in raising immunization coverage from 23% to 80%,
improved performance in diarrheal disease control, and launched a program for
control of acute respiratory infections. In order to use limited resources
more cost-effectively, the Government also revised its resource allocations to
community health so as to minimize regional disparities and focus resources on
those most in need.
1.8      The Ramos Government, which took office in 1992, has broadly endorsed
the strategies of the previous Administration, and proposes to consolidate and
build on them. However, it faces a new challenge as a result of the devolution
mandated by the 1991 Local Government Code, which shifted the budget for and
management of health services from the DOH to the local governments of 75
provinces, 60 chartered cities and about 1,500 municipalities.
Correspondingly, the new role of the DOH is to provide policy, technical and
financial support towards the achievement of national public health objectives.
1.9      To provide continuity to national public health programs under
a devolved system, the Government approved in July 1994 a ten-year Public
Investment Plan for the health sector, Investing in Equity in Health. The Plan
provides a sound basis for supporting investments in health. It outlines a
strategy for resource mobilization and utilization which aims to support and
encourage local governments to sustain and expand six priority health programs.
These priorities are: women's health and safe motherhood, child survival and
development, control of prevalent diseases, health service capacity
improvement, environmental health, and national health insurance. The proposed
project would support the first program.



- 3 -
B. Issues in Women's Health
1.10     More than one-third of the global burden of disease for women ages
15-44 and over one-fifth of that for women ages 45-59 are caused by conditions
that afflict women exclusively (e.g., obstetric complications and cervical
cancer) or predominantly (e.g., anemia and sexually-transmitted diseases). The
Program of Action of the September 1994 International Conference on Population
and Development in Cairo calls for a special emphasis on investments to reduce
high rates of maternal mortality, to educate and empower women, and to increase
access to safe and effective family planning and reproductive health
information and services.
1.11     The Philippine Government has endorsed the Cairo Program of Action,
and has committed to give greater priority to women's health, particularly
women's reproductive health. This commitment stems from a recognition of:
(a) the historical under-investment in interventions to improve the health
status of women; and (b) the potential benefits of improved women's health for
the survival, health and education of their children, for the productivity of
women and their households, and for reducing the high fertility levels that
currently absorb much of the benefits of economic growth.
Under-investment in Women's Health
1.12     Much of the past investment in women's health was to have come through
the MCH Program, but program resources have been concentrated almost entirely
on the child. This focus on the child and relative neglect of maternal health
needs have resulted from two key factors: (a) the existence of eloquent and
effective institutional advocates for the child, such as UNICEF; and (b) the
increased availability of simple and effective health technologies, such as
immunizations for common childhood diseases and oral rehydration therapy for
diarrhea. The minimal technology requirements of these child health
interventions, along with the fact that they can be provided at the community
level by basic health workers, supported by health volunteers, have made it
possible to reach nearly every child with these programs.
1.13     In contrast, women's health risks cannot be fully met at the
community level and require the involvement of doctors, nurses, hospitals and
laboratories. Although basic health workers and volunteers do have important
roles to play in delivering women's health services, such as family planning
and pre- and post-natal care at the community level, large reductions in the
major causes of mortality and morbidity in adult women can only occur through
interventions which are clinical in nature and require medical skills,
personnel and facilities (such as caesarian sections). At the same time,
treating the major causes of disability and premature death for women ranks
among the most cost-effective health interventions and yields some of the
highest social and economic benefits, as demonstrated in the 1993 World
Development Report, Investing in Health.
Limited Availability of Women's Health Services
1.14     The availability of women's health services has been limited by past
under-investment as well as the lack of a clear policy and program to address
the major health risk factors among women. These risks relate to pregnancy and
pregnancy-related complications, the lack of access to safe and reliable



-4-
contraception, reproductive tract infections (RTIs) and sexually-transmitted
diseases (STDs), and cancer.
1.15     Maternal Care.  The Philippines, a lower middle-income country,
has much room for improvement in assuring the availability of safe motherhood
services. According to the first Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) conducted
in 1993, maternal mortality is 208 per 100,000 live births; even the lower,
official figure of 74 is twice that of Thailand. The leading causes of
maternal mortality are post-partum hemorrhage, hypertension and infections.
Poor, rural women face a much higher risk when such obstetric complications
ensue because of their pattern of birth attendance and location: about 60% of
lower-income women are not attended by a trained physician or midwife at birth,
and they are much more likely to live further away from hospital facilities
that can deal with disabling or life-threatening situations.
1.16     The causes of maternal mortality and morbidity are related to poor
pre-natal, obstetric and post-natal care, weak referral systems and inadequate
management of obstetric emergencies. Traditional birth attendants, midwives
and other primary health care workers have not been adequately trained or
equipped to manage normal births, nor to identify signs of complications and
refer patients to physicians or hospitals. Referral systems themselves, where
they do exist, are weak, and most provincial and district hospitals do not have
the capability to deal with obstetric emergencies.
1.17     In addition to adequate maternal care services and facilities,
pregnancy outcomes are most affected by the mother's nutritional status.
Nutritional deficiencies during pregnancy expose the mother to higher risks of
pregnancy-induced morbidities and complication during delivery, and the child
to prematurity, low birth weight and malnutrition. About 18% of newborn babies
in the Philippines weigh less than the norm of 2.5 kg, and from one-half to
two-thirds suffer from iron-deficiency anemia. Data from the 1993 DHS Safe
Motherhood Survey show that 12% of Filipino women of reproductive age (15% of
rural women) have a Body Mass Index (BMI, a combined measure of weight and
height) less than 18.5, a level with likely adverse effects on fetal growth for
those who become pregnant. A 1992 study of lactating women in the Philippines
showed that, for a high proportion of women, maternal weight deficits left
after pregnancy cumulate through subsequent births in a cycle of maternal
depletion. For poor rural women, energy intakes during lactation were about
half of recommended allowances, and 28% of these women started the next
pregnancy with a BMI lower than 18.5.
1.18     A 1987 National Nutrition Survey found 40% of pregnant women and 50%
of lactating women to be anemic; their dietary iron intakes were reported to be
only 62% and 55%, respectively, of recommended levels. In addition, Vitamin A
intake was found inadequate among 48% of pregnant and 52% of lactating women;
iodine deficiency, as measured in visible goiter rates among pregnant and
lactating women, was reported at 30%. More recent surveys have confirmed these
levels of micronutrient deficiencies. The Government has been discussing long-
term solutions, including food fortification and community gardens supported by
nutrition information and education. However, micronutrient supplementation
remains a cost-effective option in the short- to medium-term for vastly
improving the nutritional status of women and their children.



- 5 -
1.19     Family Planning.  Although the Philippines has had a national
program in family planning since 1970, the program has suffered from
vacillating political support, uncertain financing from both domestic and
external sources, lack of consensus on program goals, and diffused
responsibility for program functions. Consequently, the program has not
achieved its own stated objectives nor the results observed in many neighboring
countries. Although the total fertility rate is down from the late 1960s level
of 5.7, it remains high at 4.3, compared to 3.4 in Indonesia and 3.0 in
Thailand. One-third of married women of reproductive age (15-45 years) report
an unmet need for contraceptive services, and the 1993 DHS reported a
contraceptive prevalence rate for modern methods of only 25%, representing
virtually no increase in the past decade.
1.20     Political support for a more effective population program has
strengthened in the past few years. In 1990, the Government requested
technical assistance from the World Bank to review the family planning program,
which resulted in a major sector report, New Directions in the Philippines
Family Planning Program (Report No. 9579-PH, October 1991). The report noted
that access to contraceptive services, even if limited to women at the highest
health risk (i.e., those under 20, over 35, with four or more children, and
those within 15 months of the last birth), could lead to a 25% decline in
infant mortality. It also concluded that family planning efforts focussed
primarily on such clients could have a significant impact on fertility.
1.21     The present Government is committed to the goal of eliminating the
unmet need for family planning and thereby enabling women to space or limit
their pregnancies according to personal choice. The Government has secured
major funding for the national family planning program from UNFPA and USAID
over the next five years. A wide range of family planning methods would be
made available to meet projected contraceptive requirements, including the
pill, intrauterine devices, condoms, injectables and implants. Only limited
support, however, would be provided for voluntary surgical contraception,
which is the preferred method claimed by about 28% of married women in the
Philippines. Another issue raised by health care workers is the lack of
private examination and counselling space and of sanitary facilities in the
centers where family planning and other women's health services are to be
provided.
1.22     RTIs/STDs. Reproductive tract infections include sexually-transmitted
diseases and infections caused either by an overgrowth of organisms present in
the genital tracts of otherwise healthy women or by unsafe medical procedures.
When left untreated, RTIs can cause infertility, ectopic pregnancy and
blindness in infants born to afflicted mothers, can preclude the use of certain
contraceptive methods, and can predispose women to cervical cancer. The
prevalence of RTIs in the general Philippine population is not known, since
there has been no effort to gather relevant data and little capacity to manage
RTIs in the basic health care system. It is believed that the prevalence of
RTIs in the Philippines is similar to that in other developing countries.
1.23     In the public sector, RTI treatment has been mainly focussed
in "social hygiene clinics," which perform mandatory STD examinations on
commercial sex workers. These clinics are not utilized by the general public
and no other public health facilities routinely provide RTI treatment.
Health services for the general population have not been organized so that



- 6 -
opportunities can be taken to diagnose and treat early symptoms of RTIs among
clients seeking maternal care and family planning services.
1.24     Cancer.  The incidence of cancer in the Philippines ranks third
following communicable and cardiovascular diseases, and fifth among the leading
causes of death. In 1988, the Government established the Philippines Cancer
Control Program aimed at the early diagnosis and treatment of common cancers.
Breast and cervical cancer are the two most common forms of cancer affecting
women. Although the prevalence of breast cancer is reported to be high,
compared to other developing countries, breast cancer diagnosis and treatment
is expensive, and thus is not likely to be cost-effective in the present
Philippine situation.
1.25     Screening of cervical cancer, on the other hand, is particularly
cost-effective because the disease can be treated relatively easily in its
early stages. Treatment of early invasive cancer can also be treated cost-
effectively through cryotherapy. There are as yet few cervical cancer
screening, diagnosis and treatment services available in public sector
facilities. Pap smears are offered primarily to family planning clients, whose
younger ages make them unlikely to have developed the disease, rather than to
women in the higher-risk age groups of 35 and above. Not surprisingly, few
cases are identified through this route, and when cases are discovered,
treatment is often not available.
1.26     Violence Against Women.  Women's groups and other NGOs are
increasingly raising awareness of the problem of violence against women. The
health sector has been called to go beyond treating the physical consequences
alone and to address the roots of the social legitimization of such violence.
Health workers can be an important source of support and referral for victims
of violence, but they can also make the situation worse through insensitive and
judgmental behavior. Even where no special services are available, health
workers can be trained to emphasize that no one deserves to be subjected to
violence, and they can put women in touch with agencies and organizations that
may provide assistance. Much can also be accomplished through public education
initiatives that call attention to the damage to women's health (physical and
mental) and productivity caused by violence.
Institutional Issues
1.27     The development and implementation of an effective women's health
program will also require efforts to address key institutional issues, with
respect to the organization of women's health services, the network of service
providers, and the efficient functioning of logistics systems for
contraceptives, drugs and other medical supplies.
1.28     Organization of Women's Health Services.  An effective women's health
program requires an integrated package of women's health education and services
on an outreach basis, since low client awareness means that clinic-based
services will not be sought. This needs to be combined with a referral system
which ensures that complications of pregnancy and delivery are directed to the
appropriate levels of care. Until recently, the technical and administrative
links within the DOH units responsible for family planning, maternal care and
obstetrical management have been limited, and little field coordination of
these services has taken place. Organizational changes in the DOH have now



placed the services for family planning, MCH and nutrition together in the
Office of Special Concerns (OSC). The DOH is also establishing formal links
between the OSC and the Hospital Administration, which manages the facilities
and facility-based staff necessary to treat obstetrical complications, as well
as with the units responsible for the RTI/STD and cancer programs. In addition
to the organizational concerns, technical shortcomings in existing service
protocols and training packages need to be addressed.
1.29     Service Network.  Health services are managed out of Provincial,
City and Municipal Health Offices. Under these offices, a network of
municipal-level rural health units and village-level barangay health stations
deliver primary and secondary services, including maternal and child health,
family planning, clinical consultation, health education and counselling,
immunization, disease surveillance and nutrition services. A typical health
unit/station is staffed by physicians, nurses and/or midwives, and assisted by
barangay health workers. The ratios of health staff to client population vary
widely from one jurisdiction to the next. Expanded and improved delivery of
women's health services will require extensive training for most of the medical
staff and health workers in the field.
1.30     Logistics.  Poor and irregular supplies of contraceptives, drugs and
other medical supplies have contributed to discontinuance of contraceptive use,
poorly treated health conditions, and poor community acceptance of public
health services. Pilferage, especially of goods with commercial value, and the
lack of quality control in transportation and delivery, leading to
deterioration of goods, are serious problems. These contribute to inefficiency
and wastage within the health system, and increased health costs. In the past
three years, the DOH has commissioned numerous studies and pilots to examine
various options for logistics support. These studies have taken into account
the role of the DOH under devolution, the efficiency of local drug purchases,
and the comparative costs and benefits of utilizing the private sector. While
committed to improving the efficiency and transparency of the public health
logistics system, the DOH has as yet been unable to mobilize the technical and
financial support to introduce the required reforms.
1.31     Need for Greater Community Involvement.  The Government is
committed to learning from and scaling up past efforts to organize and empower
communities for greater self-reliance in addressing their health problems. The
devolution of health services to LGUs should provide more opportunities for
effective partnerships among communities, government agencies, NGOs and other
local private resources to achieve this important objective.
C. Strategy for Sector Development
Country Development Goals and Strategy
1.32     The Government's Medium-Term Development Plan (1993-98), prepared
by the National Economic Development Authority, emphasizes two main themes:
(a) the need of the Philippine economy to strive for world competitiveness; and
(b) the need to provide people with the economic means to gain control of their
lives. The Plan's overall human development goals are to: (i) enable the
majority of the population to meet their basic minimum needs; (ii) provide
focused basic services at a level which would allow people to manage and
control their resources as well as benefit from developmental interventions;



- 8 -
and (iii) harness the productive capacity of the country's human resource base
toward international competitiveness.
1.33     The strategies proposed for poverty alleviation and human resource
development include: focusing social services on the poor; developing social
safety nets; directing public resources and efforts at basic social services,
disadvantaged regions and specific groups; improving and strengthening the
mechanisms for planning, policy formulation and implementation of social
development programs; and providing the necessary infrastructure facilities to
facilitate and improve delivery of basic social services.
Health Sector Strategy and the Implications of Devolution
1.34     The Government's overall goals and strategies for the health sector
are articulated in the ten-year Public Investment Plan of the DOH (para. 1.9;
Annex 1). Its key objectives are to assure the sustainability of national
health programs, support the process of devolution, rationalize sector
spending, and enhance institutional capabilities in management and planning,
procurement and logistics, and infrastructure development.
1.35     Among the six priority health programs, the women's health and
safe motherhood program aims to ensure universal access to family planning
information and services in accordance with health needs and the fertility
preferences of couples, reduce maternal mortality through improved pre-natal
care and safe delivery services, and reduce maternal morbidity though quality
maternal care, better nutrition and adequate spacing of pregnancies. The
program also aims to provide services for RTIs/STDs and cervical cancer on a
more limited scale, while service protocols are being developed and evaluated
for their cost-effectiveness and sustainability, with the eventual aim of
including such services into a truly integrated women's health package.
1.36     Because the health sector is arguably the sector most affected by
devolution, much of the DOH strategy is focussed on the development of
institutional arrangements to make devolution work. The key features of the
1991 Local Government Code which mandated devolution are as follows:
(a)  Devolution of Basic Services.  Local Government Units (LGUs) were
given new responsibilities for important public services previously
held by the National Government, including agriculture extension,
forest management, health services, tertiary roads and social welfare
programs. The National Government staff, equipment and facilities
associated with the devolved functions were transferred to the LGUs.
(b)  Increased Revenue Sharing.   All previous National Government grants
to LGUs were consolidated into the Internal Revenue Allotment. From
1994, 40% of national revenues will be allocated to the different
levels of local government according to the following formula:
provinces 23%; cities 23%; municipalities 34%; and barangays 20%.
Within each level of local government, the grants will be distributed
based on the following formula: population 50%; land 25%; and equal
share 25%.
(c)  Administrative Autonomy.   LGUs were given more flexibility to raise
local revenues, to borrow, and to determine types of local



-9-
expenditures. The amount of flexibility varies, however, according to
level of local government, with cities and municipalities on the one
hand gaining additional options to introduce new taxes and fees, while
provinces, on the other, limited to collecting only those taxes
specified in the Local Government Code.
1.37     Under devolution, the DOH has undergone a far-reaching structural and
functional transformation. All DOH facilities at the local level, including
hospitals, rural health units and barangay health stations, and 70% of the
sector's staff, have been devolved to LGUs. Public health services and
hospital operations at these levels are no longer subject to central financial
or managerial control, and local governments must now manage large-scale public
health responsibilities. Devolution carries with it the risk of reduced
allocations for health and greater inequities. Some LGUs may not have the
resources to provide adequate services, while others may lack the commitment.
Even if health allocations are maintained, there is the danger that health
resources may be diverted away from preventive toward curative care. Still
another risk is that public health service quality may fall because of weak
local government health management capability.
1.38     To avert these risks, the DOH is engaged in a three-pronged strategy
to manage health services under devolution: (a) it has secured approval within
the National Government of its ten-year Public Investment Plan for the health
sector, which outlines national priority health goals and programs (paras. 1.9,
1.34); (b) it is negotiating and entering into annual Comprehensive Health Care
Agreements (CHCAs) with individual LGUs, which commit the local governments to
financing and implementing national health programs in exchange for financial
and technical support from the DOH (para. 4.11); and (c).it is mobilizing and
coordinating additional financial resources for priority programs from a
variety of sources, including local budgets, cost-sharing with LGUs, grants and
loans from aid agencies, the private sector, and cost recovery schemes.
Bank Experience and Strategy
1.39     Lessons from Previous Bank Experience.  The Bank Group has supported
four projects in the population, health and nutrition sector through two IDA
credits and two IBRD loans. The first two projects, Population I (Ln. 1035-PH,
approved 1974, closed 1982) and Population II (Cr. 0923-PH, approved 1979,
closed 1988), had health as well as population objectives, and supported both
the Population Commission (POPCOM) and the DOH. Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPARs) for the two projects-/ concluded that their most significant
achievement was the establishment of a nationwide PHC structure, including the
para-professional, community-based midwife cadre. The proposed Women's Health
and Safe Motherhood Project would continue to strengthen the PHC system and
further enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of midwives through better
service integration and training.
1.40     The Population I and II Projects were criticized, however, for failing
to achieve their population objectives. The PPAR for the second project argued
that the Family Planning Program would have been less vulnerable to failure if
/ Project Performance Audit Report Nos. 5544 and 9380, dated 03/19/85 and
02/15/91 for Population I and II, respectively.



- 10 -
program responsibility had not been split between the DOH and POPCOM; this was
addressed in 1988 when the Government gave full responsibility for the National
Philippines Family Planning Program to the DOH. In addition, the proposed
Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project would integrate family planning
services into the PHC and MCH programs of the DOH, which the PPAR recommended
as a means of improving the family planning program's likelihood of success.
1.41     Two other Bank-supported health projects are currently under
supervision: the Philippine Health Development Project (Ln. 3099-PH, approved
1989) and the Urban Health and Nutrition Project (Cr. 2506-PH, approved 1993).
The Health Development Project was designed to expand and improve the malaria,
schistosomiasis and tuberculosis disease control programs and the MCH program,
strengthen information systems, planning and budgeting, communications,
training and evaluation in the DOH, and establish a program of grants for
organizing and implementing partnerships for community health projects between
the DOH, local governments and NGOs. The main objectives of the Urban Health
Project are to improve the health and nutrition status of slum-dwellers in
three major urban areas of the country, and to build the capacity of city and
municipal governments in these areas to plan, finance and implement slum health
and nutrition programs.
1.42     Under the Health Development Project, the innovative community
partnerships component has met with exceptional success and the Government is
keen to expand the program. Relatively good progress has also been achieved by
the project's other components, despite cash flow problems due to the
Government's inefficient practices relating to budget releases and utilization
of project Special Accounts. The proposed project has been included in the
Government's Core Public Investment Program, which ensures full funding for
high-priority public investment projects; and improved arrangements for the
operation of Special Accounts in the Philippines have been agreed upon with the
Bank (para. 3.13). The Urban Health Project is the first post-devolution
project in the sector and is being implemented in 21 cities and municipalities.
The experience in preparing and launching this project has been utilized to
work out devolution-related issues for the proposed project, including resource
allocation and cost-sharing arrangements (paras. 4.10 to 4.18).
1.43     Country Assistance Strategy.  The Bank's country assistance strategy
(CAS) for the Philippines presented to the Board in February 1994 aims to
assist the Government to attain the following key development objectives:
(a) maintain a sound macroeconomic framework; (b) improve the business climate
for private enterprise; (c) remove infrastructure bottlenecks; (d) protect the
environment; and (e) alleviate poverty through economic growth and the
provision of basic social services. The proposed project is consistent with
and would be an important component of the CAS. It would provide a basic
package of health services for women, which would both contribute to poverty
alleviation and improve the human resource base required for sustained economic
growth.
1.44     Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The Bank has an established
relationship with the Government in the health sector, developed through its
policy dialogue, project portfolio and sector work. This relationship places
the Bank in a strong position to assist in the sector's further development.
The Bank has supported the case for investing in health for economic growth as
well as for poverty alleviation, and assisted the DOH in preparing its Public.



- 11 -
Investment Plan. The Bank has also played a critical role in assisting the DOH
to address the consequences of devolution--through a Government-requested study
analyzing the impact of devolution on the delivery of public health services
(Report No. 12343-PH, May 1994), and from the operational perspective of
preparing and implementing projects under a devolved system. In addition, the
Bank has pioneered with the DOH the development of health risk assessment and
targeting mechanisms for directing resources to the poor and vulnerable,
including area-based and life cycle approaches to service delivery and decision
support models for resource allocation.
1.45     The Bank's interest in women's health in the Philippines originated
in a 1989 women in development assessment which noted the relatively high
fertility and maternal mortality rates, despite reasonably good female access
to education. This was followed by the sector report reviewing the country's
population program (para. 1.20), which was instrumental in the Government's
adoption of a health--as opposed to a purely demographic--rationale for family
planning, and in the DOH's decision to give priority to developing a Women's
Health and Safe Motherhood Project. To support this project, the Bank has
assisted the Government in mobilizing a substantial amount of concessional and
grant cofinancing; the Bank would cover the remaining financing gap. The
project's gender and poverty focus are also particularly important for
supporting the development objectives of the Bank's assistance strategy.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and ScoDe
2.1      Project Objectives.  The project's overall objectives are to improve
the health status of women, with particular focus on women of reproductive age,
and thereby support the Government's long-term goals of reducing fertility,
female morbidity and maternal mortality. Its specific objectives would be to:
(a)  improve the quality and range of women's health and safe motherhood
services;
(b)  strengthen the capacity of LGUs to manage the provision of these
services, and of the DOH to provide policy, technical, financial and
logistical support;
(c)  enhance the effectiveness and sustainability of health interventions
through the participation of local communities and NGOs in the
project; and
(d)  expand the knowledge base upon which to draw policy and technical
guidance for women's health programs.
2.2      Project ScoRe.  To accomplish these objectives, the project would
consist of the following components and sub-components:
(a) Service Delivery in the areas of (i) maternal care, and (ii) other
women's health services, including 1) family planning, 2) diagnosis
and treatment of RTIs and STDs, and 3) detection and treatment of
cervical cancer;



- 12 -
(b) Institutional Development including (i) information, education and
communication (IEC) programs to promote attitudes and practices that
would improve women's health, (ii) training for public sector health
care workers involved in delivering women's health services, (iii)
development and installation of a national public health logistics
system for the DOH that would ensure the efficient procurement and
delivery of commodities to end users, and (iv) support to the DOH in
project management;
(c)  Community Partnershisp which would support local communities and NGOs
working with LGUs and the DOH in planning and implementing community-
based women's health services; and
(d) Policy and Operations Research to conduct studies on women's health
and related service delivery questions.
B. Project DescriRtion
Component I: Service Delivery
(US$57.9 million equivalent estimated base cost)
Maternal Care
2.3      The maternal care sub-component would:  (a) strengthen existing
maternal care services of the DOH, provinces and municipalities, including
pre-natal care and screening, management of normal births and obstetrical
complications, and post-natal care; and (b) improve the quality and
accessibility of the services in first-referral level facilities, i.e.,
hospitals able to provide and support caesarean sections on a 24-hour basis.
Further details on the maternal care sub-component are provided in Annex 3.
2.4      The following inputs would be provided on a nationwide basis:  (a)
micronutrients for pregnant and lactating women, including iron/folate, iodine
and Vitamin A; (b) tetanus toxoid for pregnant women; (c) midwifery kits; (d)
traditional birth attendant (hilot) kits; (e) safe delivery kits for home-based
deliveries; and (f) emergency obstetrical drugs and supplies. The kits, drugs
and supplies would support midwives, traditional birth attendants and rural
health unit staff in providing improved pre- and post-natal care, managing
normal births, and stabilizing the condition of women experiencing obstetric
complications prior to their transfer to a first-referral facility.
2.5      Facilities and referral systems would be targeted for intensive
upgrading in 40 provinces, selected on the basis of poverty levels and maternal
mortality data. In these provinces, the project would: (a) upgrade selected
hospitals to enable them to provide 24-hour obstetrical emergency care through
improved ward, delivery and operating room, triage and laboratory facilities
and essential equipment and furnishings; (b) renovate selected rural health
units (four per province) to enable them to support the provision of prenatal
and post-natal care, as well as safe deliveries and stabilization of emergency
obstetrical clients prior to transportation and referral, through minor
repairs, furnishings, equipment and supplies; and (c) upgrade selected barangay
health stations (seven per province) to support the provision of pre-natal and
post-natal services.



- 13 -
2.6      To support the improvements in maternal care services, technical
assistance would be provided in infection control, qualit-y assurance, and
development of standards and protocols. Technical assistance and support would
also be provided to pilot the following: (a) maternity waiting homes and
lying-in clinics in remote areas; (b) social marketing of disposable home-based
delivery kits; (c) social marketing of iron, iodine and Vitamin A supplements;
(d) food fortification for iron, Vitamin A and iodine; and (e) community-based
transportation and mobilization of local transport to referral facilities.
Family Planning
2.7      The project would assist the Government to fulfill the unmet need for
family planning services, and thereby enable women to space or limit their
pregnancies according to personal choice. This would be done by supporting
voluntary surgical contraception for males and females, which would complement
the contraceptive options being provided by USAID and UNFPA over a similar time
period as the project. The project would finance minilaparotomy kits and
medical supplies required to perform voluntary surgical contraception, as well
as drugs to treat complications that may arise from the procedure. The
minilaparotomy kits would be supplied nationwide to provincial and district
hospitals which have not been provided such kits by UNFPA but would otherwise
have the capacity to perform the procedures. Estimates for the medical
supplies and drug requirements are based on the ten-year UNFPA projection of
national public sector contraceptive needs prepared by the UNFPA in 1993 and
adopted by the DOH.
2.8      The project would also upgrade rural health units and barangay health
stations to increase private examination and counselling space, and to upgrade
water, electricity and toilet facilities. Such improvements (including works,
furniture and equipment) would be provided to selected rural health units and
barangay health stations in the 40 provinces covered under the maternal care
sub-component, as well as in the remaining 36 provinces. 2/
Diagnosis and Treatment of RTIs/STDs
2.9      The project would aim to reduce morbidity and mortality due to
sexually and non-sexually transmitted RTIs among women of reproductive age in
ten selected provinces (the list of provinces is given in Annex 2). Provincial
selection was based on the number of women of reproductive age, urban
concentration of the population (to cover high-risk groups), and the
availability of facilities which are able to provide RTI services but currently
do not offer them.
2.10     Women's access to early diagnosis and treatment of RTIs/STDs would be
maximized by introducing the syndromic approach to RTI management, by
integrating these services into family planning and maternal care services, and
by targeting high-risk populations. With the syndromic approach, health
workers match patient symptoms with those of locally-prevalent RTIs and provide
the appropriate first-line treatment. Referral services would be provided for
managing patients with complications and advanced infections. Women presenting
for family planning or prenatal care would also be counselled about RTIs and,
2/ Metro Manila is covered under the Urban Health and Nutrition Project.



- 14 -
where called for, diagnosed and treated. Management of STDs would involve
treating both women and their male partners who present with symptoms at health
facilities.
2.11     The project would provide foreign technical assistance to develop the
approach for targeting high-risk as well as general populations for RTI
management. It would also finance drugs, laboratory reagents and other medical
supplies for RTI diagnosis and treatment.
Detection and Treatment of Cervical Cancer
2.12     To assist in reducing the prevalence of cervical cancer, the project
would support service delivery in 15 provinces identified by the Philippines
Cancer Control Program (the list of provinces is given in Annex 2). The
provinces were selected based on their capacity to provide referral facilities
for early and complete treatment of cases detected during screening. The
project strategy would be to shift diagnostic services away from family
planning clients to older women, among whom cervical cancer usually appears;
the aim would be to screen 75% of all women in the selected provinces between
45 to 55 years of age. 3/ All detected cases would receive treatment at a
referral facility.
2.13     The project would concentrate on supporting early detection and
treatment of cervical cancer through the use of Pap smears as the screening
method, cervical biopsies for suspicious lesions (i.e., positive Pap smears),
and cryotherapy for early invasive cancer. However, support would also be
provided for surgical treatment of more advanced cases. To undertake these
activities, the project would finance local technical assistance, supplies for
Pap smears and cervical biopsies, transportation of slides to referral
facilities, cryotherapy machines to 17 regional hospitals under a supply, train
and 12-month maintenance contract, and supplies for simple and radical
hysterectomies. Under the training sub-component, training would also be
provided to health workers in smear taking and slide preparation, to
cytologists in proper slide examination, and to gynecologists in cryotherapy
(para. 2.24).
Life Cycle Approach
2.14     As part of the service delivery component and in addition to
strengthening facility-based services provided on demand, the project would
pilot the life cycle approach as an active outreach service targeting strategy.
In this approach, women of reproductive age are targeted for client-oriented
services during critical high-risk periods in their lives. Focusing on
managing risk is more efficient and cost-effective because it reduces the scope
and work load of the public health system compared to more traditional
population-based program approaches. This approach also helps to build a
continuing relationship between client and service provider, which does more to
build clients' capacity for self and family care than is possible through the
current approach of unsystematic service encounters.
3/ Women 35 to 44 years of age would be screened and treated under an ongoing
activity of the Philippines Cancer Control Program.



- 15 -
2.15     The life cycle approach responds to the needs of women of reproductive
age and children as they go through the critical stages covering the period
from before pregnancy, pregnancy, childbirth, the immediate post-natal stage,
and the child's first five years.4/ Under the project, the approach would be
utilized mainly to deliver family planning and maternal care services. It
would begin with household-level targeting. Through the outreach educational
and promotional activities of midwives and barangay health workers, attempts
would be made to identify all poor women of reproductive age who are at
abnormal risk to pregnancy or who desire family planning services. The
identified women are registered and given a choice to enroll in the family
planning program. If a woman chooses a method provided only at a health
facility (e.g., surgical contraception), the outreach workers facilitate the
referral; once the service is provided, they follow up the woman in the home
and provide advice to assure a successful patient outcome. Services not
requiring a health facility would be provided directly by the midwife.
2.16     Through the same outreach approach, there would be an attempt to
identify and register 100% of all women who become pregnant and to enroll them
in a preventive pre-natal care service. The objective is to enroll the mother
as early as possible in the pregnancy and provide her a minimum of three pre-
natal visits, i.e., at least once during each trimester of a normal pregnancy.
Women identified from the outreach activities and pre-natal visits to be at
high risk to delivery (approximately 5%) would be monitored separately on a
more frequent basis to minimize risk and assure optimum attention or referral
at delivery. Another 10% of women who incur unforeseen complications at
delivery would be referred and transported to a facility that can handle
obstetric complications.
2.17     Although not directly supported by this project, all newborns will be
registered and tracked monthly for the first two years of the child's life and
quarterly until five years of age.  The monthly visits to the health facilities
will provide the opportunity to integrate a range of services for both mother
and child.  Through the combination of household outreach and health
facilities, services for children would include promotion of breast feeding,
growth monitoring, immunization, micronutrient supplementation and disease
surveillance/consultation.  For the mother, the immediate post-delivery period
would focus on monitoring potential complications of delivery and provision of
family planning counseling and services.
2.18     The life cycle approach to planning and integrating health services
implies a radical change from traditional modes of service delivery,
particularly in how health care workers organize their work. Its adoption will
require a major re-training effort for health care workers and their managers.
The Government has therefore decided to adopt the approach on a pilot basis
prior to nationwide implementation. Piloting of the approach has begun in the
21 municipalities and cities involved in the Urban Health and Nutrition
Project. Further testing and development would be undertaken during
implementation of the proposed project, which will include time-and-motion
4/ The proposed project would primarily support services targeted to women.
A proposed Early Childhood Development Project currently under preparation
would focus on infants and children age 0-5.



- 16 -
studies on health care workers in the field to determine what staffing ratios
are required and how work can be better prioritized.
Component II: Institutional Development
(US$32.7 million equivalent estimated base cost)
Information. Education and Communication
2.19     The project would develop and utilize an integrated information,
education and communication (IEC) strategy to reach women, service providers
and the general public with messages to: (a) improve health practices among
women, and direct changes in knowledge and attitudes towards that end; and
(b) provide information about the availability of health services to various
segments of the female audience to ensure that women take timely action to
safeguard their health. The IEC strategy would utilize women's groups and
communities as channels of communication, with mass media providing supportive
messages about women's health. Thematic messages would be broadcast
nationwide, while messages aimed at encouraging women to seek health services
would be targeted to those areas where such services are available. Additional
details and sample message areas are provided in Annex 5.
2.20     The IEC plan of action involves five steps, namely:  (a) assessment
of knowledge, attitudes and practices of women regarding their own health;
(b) planning of a communication strategy with messages that would trigger
appropriate health behavior among four main audiences--women in union, older
women, adolescents, and special audiences (e.g., victims of domestic violence);
(c) materials development and pretesting; (d) implementation of behavior change
interventions; and (e) monitoring and evaluation of the impact of the
interventions, using such information for planning subsequent phases.
2.21     The following materials would be produced and disseminated:
(a) communication materials for interpersonal communication and mass media;
(b) training videos using an interactive format to encourage learner
participation; and (c) research information to guide the development of a
behavior change strategy and to monitor and evaluate elements that contribute
to the success of the intervention.
2.22     The project would provide technical assistance for the design and
management of formative research, formulation of a behavior change strategy,
and monitoring and evaluation. The project would also finance planning
workshops at national and local government levels, equipment, broadcast time
for radio and television IEC spots, and publication of IEC materials.
Training
2.23     The project would provide quality in-service training for public
sector health care workers involved in delivering maternal care, family
planning, RTI/STD and cervical cancer services. This would involve the
development of competency-based training approaches, development of integrated
curricula for women's health, improved training of trainers, and the conduct of
basic training in the developed curricula. In addition, the project would
support the development, piloting and expansion of distance learning approaches
for refresher training of health care workers.



- 17 -
2.24     Training would be provided to trainers and supervisors on regional and
provincial training and supervisory teams, who would, in turn, conduct the
basic training for primary and secondary health care workers under the guidance
of professional associations and consultants. At the primary health care
level, training would be provided for rural health midwives, public health
nurses, rural health doctors, traditional birth attendants, and barangay health
workers. Secondary health care workers to be trained would include doctors,
nurses and laboratory staff at first-referral level hospitals, and
gynecologists, cytotechnicians, pathologists at regional medical centers.
Details on the training to be provided are given in Annex 6.
2.25     The full complement of training courses would be provided to health
care workers in the 40 provinces covered by the maternal care sub-component.
For the provinces included in the RTIs/STDs and cervical cancer sub-components,
training would be provided to secondary health care workers involved in the
delivery of these services, as well as to all primary health care workers.
For the remaining provinces, training would be limited to primary health care
workers. To carry out the activities under this sub-component, the project
would finance technical assistance, in-country and overseas training, training
equipment, materials production and distribution, travel, salaries and
honoraria for trainers, and other incremental operating costs.
Logistics
2.26     The project would strengthen the national public health logistics
system to improve the supply of drugs and medicines, vaccines, reagents and
other medical supplies to health units at all levels. Existing commodity-
specific systems and procedures would be consolidated into an overall DOH
logistics system able to accommodate the commodity requirements of the Women's
Health and Safe Motherhood Program at the outset, with a view to eventually
serving all DOH essential programs. This would require the design and
implementation of the following logistic system components: (a) procurement
system, including commodity forecasting, a program-logistics logical commodity
procurement schedule, requisition, bidding and ordering procedures, and
a random sampling system for drugs; (b) a distribution system from the center
to provinces/cities to municipalities/barangays; (c) a storage and materials
handling system, including warehousing and inventory; and (d) a logistics
information system, including data on stock prices, ordering status, inventory
control, demand analysis, supplier performance and distribution verification.
2.27     This sub-component would center around improvements in the DOH in
organizational structure, technical competence of logistics staff, collection
and use of logistics information, storage ownership, capacity and methods,
distribution from the DOH to provincial stores, delivery to end users within
provinces, and methods and timing of procurement. Similar improvements would
be undertaken for procurement, distribution, materials handling, storage and
information systems at the provincial level to complete the requirements for a
national health logistics system that can ensure the efficient delivery of
commodities to their beneficiaries.
2.28     The project would specifically support:  (a) provision of integrated
logistics support information and procurement computerized systems (hardware
and software); (b) provision of technical assistance and training in logistics
management and information systems; (c) contracting of private drug



- 18 -
distributors or other commercial materials handlers, where they prove cost-
effective, to deliver drugs and medicines, vaccines, reagents and other medical
supplies; and (d) rehabilitation or expansion of public logistics facilities,
where private logistics contractors are unable to cost-effectively meet the
requirements, including the provision of equipment and vehicles, financing of
related operational costs and expenses, constructing or rehabilitating and
equipping of about four (4) DOH central and about seventy-six (76) provincial
warehouses, as well as upgrading of storage and materials handling systems and
inventory facilities.
Project Management
2.29     The project would support project management and coordination
activities of the DOH and, in doing so, strengthen its capacity to provide
policy guidance, technical assistance, training, information, logistical and
financial support for the consistent implementation of public health programs
nationwide under devolution. The management responsibilities of the DOH would
include the overall monitoring and evaluation of project performance, processes
and impact. DOH skills in these areas would be upgraded through technical
assistance and training. The project would also finance the salaries of
contractual staff for a Project Management Office in the DOH (para. 4.2),
computers and other office equipment, vehicles, supplies, materials and other
incremental operating costs.
ComRonent III: Community Partnerships
(US$11.8 million equivalent estimated base cost)
2.30     The project would assist in establishing partnerships among NGOs,
local communities, local governments and the DOH, with the objective of
empowering women and their communities to improve their health situations.
Building on the experience with community partnerships under the Philippine
Health Development Project, the project would specifically seek out the
involvement of women's health and advocacy groups. This component would be
implemented in 15 provinces, with poorer provinces and communities to be
targeted for coverage. It would support activities related to establishing
the partnerships, organizing communities, and developing institutional
capacities of local groups involved in the partnerships.
2.31     At the provincial level, the partnerships would involve the regional
field offices of the DOH and other related line agencies, provincial health
officers and health board members and local NGOs. Their purpose would be to
establish and maintain consultative and information networks as vehicles for
local policy formulation, planning, training, monitoring and evaluation, and
advocacy. They would sponsor orientation and planning seminars, gender and
other training, fora for linking groups supporting community health
initiatives, advocacy activities for women's health and family planning,
and the formation of provincial teams to assist in community organization.
2.32     At the community level, activities to be supported through the
partnerships would include community-based initiatives in women's health care,
family planning and IEC, the development of women's organizations, and self-
help projects. Community organizing efforts would be undertaken mainly by
partner NGOs. In barangays where partnerships have already been established
under the Philippine Health Development Project, the project would support the



- 19 -
incorporation of women's health concerns into community activities. In
barangays where no organizing effort has yet taken place, the project would
support the integration of women's health in all phases of community organizing
and capacity-building.
2.33     To develop capacities in planning, managing, implementing and
monitoring community health activities, staff development needs would be
analyzed, trainers trained, and training provided to LGU, NGO and community
participants. Areas of training would include situation analysis, project
planning and management, community organizing, monitoring and evaluation, and
IEC on women's health and family planning.
ComRonent IV: Policy and Operations Research
(US$1.0 million equivalent estimated base cost)
2.34     The project would support research to provide policy and operational
guidance to women's health and safe motherhood programs. This research agenda
would include:
(a)  studies to assess the cost-effectiveness of service delivery options,
including (i) alternative approaches to the screening and early
detection of cervical cancer, (ii) active contact tracing for STDs,
and (iii) alternative iron supplementation regimes for pregnant and
lactating women;
(b)  research on priority issues affecting women's health, including (i)
the incidence of breast cancer, and (ii) the incidence of violence
against women, community attitudes towards the problem, and the
availability of services and counselling; and
(c) the monitoring and evaluation studies described in paras. 4.24-4.27.
2.35     The Project Management Office would be responsible for the overall
direction of the studies and developing their terms of reference in
consultation with concerned DOH program offices. The studies would be
undertaken through technical assistance contracts with local university-based
or other qualified research groups. Terms of reference would be reviewed and
agreed upon with the Bank.
Technical Assistance Summary
2.36     The total estimated base cost of the technical assistance to be
provided under the project (including consultant services, training and
studies) is US$24.6 million. This assistance can be classified as follows:
(a) policy support--studies under the policy and operations research component
(about US$1.0 million); (b) project implementation support--consultant services
and training under the service delivery, IEC and community partnerships
components (about US$9.6 million); and (c) institutional development--
consultant services and training under the training, logistics and project
management components (about US$14.1 million). The technical assistance for
policy and project implementation support is also expected to contribute to
capacity-building and institutional development. Draft terms of reference have
been prepared for the technical assistance requirements, including detailed
terms of reference for the larger and more critical assignments.



- 20 -
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Cost Estimates
3.1       Summary of Project Costs.  The total cost of the project is estimated
at Philippine Pesos 3.82 billion or US$136.4 million equivalent, including
contingencies and taxes. A summary of costs by project component is given in
Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2. Costs by component,
category of expenditure and year are given in Annex 12.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Local   Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign Total   For.  Base
Project Component         ---------Peso million---------  ------US$ million-------  Exch.  Cost
Service Deliverv
Maternal Care             508.13  1,113.31  1,621.44   18.15  39.76   57.91   69    48
Other Services
Family Planning          78.67      87.63    166.30    2.81   3.13    5.94   53        5
RTIs/STDs                18.54    228.52    247.06    0.66   8.16    8.82   92         7
Cervical Cancer          17.09      46.96     64.04    0.61   1.68    2.29   73        2
Total, Other Services    114.30    363.10    477.40    4.08  12.97   17.05   76    14
Total. Service Delivery    622.43  1.476.41  2.098.84   22.23  52.73   74.96   70    62
Institutional Development
Training                  341.68      88.39    430.06   12.20   3.16   15.36   21    13
IEC                       147.84      30.03    177.86    5.28   1.07    6.35   17        5
Logistics                 170.89    101.37    272.26    6.10   3.62    9.72   37         8
Project Management         31.95       2.96     34.91    1.14   0.11    1.25      8      1
Total, Institutional Dev.  692.35    222.75    915.10   24.73   7.96   32.68   24    27
Community Partnerships      225.12    105.28    330.40    8.04   3.76   11.80   32    10
Policy/O>erations Research    21.44      5.36     26.80    0.77   0.19    0.96   20        1
Total Baseline Cost       1.561.34  1.809.80  3.371.14   55.76  64.64  120.40   54   100
Physical Contingencies     64.59      74.87    139.46    2.31   2.67    4.98   54        4
Price Contingencies       162.41    147.41    309.82    5.80   5.26   11.07   48         9
Total Project Cost        1,788.34  2,032.09   3,820.43   63.87  72.57  136.44   53   113
Note:  The totals in this and subsequent tables may not add up exactly due to rounding.
3.2       Contingency Allowances.   Project costs include a contingency allowance
for unforeseen physical additions (US$4.98 million equivalent) and for
inflation (US$11.07 million equivalent). Price contingencies are equivalent to
9% of base costs plus physical contingencies. For IBRD-financed components,
physical contingencies are estimated at 5% of base costs; and, in accordance
with Bank-wide and regional guidelines, price contingencies are based on the
following annual inflation factors: 2.5% for foreign costs and 7% for local
costs throughout the project period.



- 21 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Local    Foreign    Total        Local  Foreign  Total   Base
Expenditure Category               --------Peso million --------      -----US$ million-----   Cost
Investment Costs
Civil Works                     216.26      216.84      433.10       7.72    7.74    15.47       13
Furniture                         2.79        0.70        3.48       0.10    0.02       0.12      .1
Equipment                        38.00      243.47      281.47       1.36    8.70    10.05        8
Vehicles                           7.12      48.99       56.11       0.25    1.75       2.00       2
Initial Medical Supplies al   185.76        704.41      890.17       6.63   25.16    31.79       26
Media b/                          92.80      23.20      116.00       3.31    0.83       4.14       3
Foreign Consultants              13.65      121.41      135.05       0.49    4.34       4.82      4
Local Consultants               183.33       20.37      203.70       6.55    0.73       7.27       6
Overseas Training                  0.95       8.57        9.53       0.03    0.31       0.34      .2
Local Training                  288.78       25.34      314.12      10.31    0.91    11.22         9
Grants                          219.52       54.88      274.40       7.84    1.96       9.80       8
Studies                          21.44        5.36       26.80       0.77    0.19       0.96       1
Total, Investment Costs       1.270.39   1,473.54   2.743.93        45.37   52.63    98.00        81
Incremental Recurrent Costs
Drugs/Reagents                    18.04     336.26      354.30       0.64   12.01    12.65        11
Medical Supplies/Materials        55.31         -        55.31       1.98      -        1.98       2
Salaries                         62.41          -        62.41       2.23      -        2.23       2
Maintenance                      70.63          -        70.63       2.52      -        2.52       2
Other Operating Costs            84.57          -        84.57       3.02      -        3.02       3
Total. Recurrent Costs          290.95      336.26      627.21      10.39   12.01    22.40        19
Total Baseline Cost             1.561.34   1,809.80   3,371.14        55.76   64.64   120.40    100
Physical Contingencies           64.59       74.87      139.46       2.31    2.67       4.98       4
Price Contingencies             162.41      147.41      309.82       5.80    5.26    11.07         9
Total Proiect Cost               1,788.34   2,032.09   3,820.43       63.87   72.57   136.44    113
a/ ADB expenditure category including obstetric kits (drugs and supplies) and micronutrients.
b/ Includes broadcast time for television and radio IEC spots, and publication of IEC materials.
3.3         Taxes  and Duties.   Project costs  include an estimated US$1.24 million
equivalent in construction-related duties and taxes. All goods imported under
the project would be exempt from duties and taxes.
3.4         Foreign Exchange Costs.   Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
are estimated at US$72.57 million equivalent,  or about 53% of total project
cost, including contingencies. The estimated foreign exchange component for
the various expenditure categories are as follows: (a) 95% for drugs and
reagents; (b) 90% for equipment, vehicles, foreign technical assistance and
overseas training; (c) 80% for initial medical supplies; (d) 50% for civil
works; (e) 20% for furniture, media, grants and studies; and (f) 10% for local
technical assistance and local training.
3.5         Incremental Recurrent Costs.   Project cost estimates  include  the
following incremental recurrent costs: (a) drugs, reagents and medical



- 22 -
supplies for service delivery expansion; (b) salaries for contract staff; (c)
maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment, staff travel and other
operating costs.
B. Financing
3.6      The estimated total project cost of US$136.4 million equivalent would
be financed by: (a) a local contribution of US$26.7 million, mainly from LGUs
through cost-sharing arrangements to be implemented under the project; (b) an
IBRD Loan of US$18.0 million; and (c) cofinancing contributions totalling
US$91.8 million from the Asian Development Bank (ADB), the Australian
International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB), the European Commission
(EC) and Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW) of Germany.
3.7      Project financing is summarized in Table 3.3 below and would be as
follows:
(a)  ADB would provide a US$54.0 million concessional loan to finance
(i) the maternal care sub-component (except for equipment and kits to
be financed by KfW), (ii) the IEC sub-component, and (iii) the project
management sub-component;
(b)  AIDAB would provide a grant of AUD15.1 million (US$10.6 million
equivalent) for the training sub-component of the project,
specifically to finance (i) all national-level institutional
strengthening activities (training of trainers, curriculum
development), (ii) training of first-referral level doctors in
obstetrical care in all 15 regional training hospitals, (iii)
development and piloting of distance learning, and (iv) the conduct of
basic integrated training and distance learning for primary and
secondary health care providers in the 40 provinces covered under the
maternal care sub-component;
(c)  EC would provide a grant of ECU15.6 million (US$13.0 million
equivalent) to finance the community partnerships component;
(d)  KfW would provide a grant of DM24.2 million (US$14.2 million
equivalent) to finance (i) medical equipment, midwifery kits and hilot
kits for maternal care, (ii) minilaparotomy kits, drugs and reagents
for family planning, (iii) drugs for RTIs/STDs, (iv) freight and
handling for procured commodities, and (v) a procurement consultant;
(e)  the total Government contribution to the project would cover about 20%
of total project costs, and would include the National Government
counterpart as well as local government cost-shares; and
(f)  the IBRD Loan of US$18.0 million equivalent would cover the remaining
financing gap, including (i) drugs and reagents for other women's
health services (except for those financed by KfW), (ii) under the
training sub-component, the conduct of basic integrated training for
primary and secondary health care providers in the 36 provinces not
covered by the maternal care component, (iii) the logistics sub-
component, and (iv) the research sub-component.



- 23 -
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN a/
(Amounts in US$ million equivalent, including contingencies)
Est. Share
Expenditure           ------------------------ US$ million ------------------------  of IBRD
Category               Local   ADB   AIDAB    EC    KfW    IBRD   Total Financing
Civil Works             4.74   10.60     -      -       -      2.54   17.88    14%
Furniture               0.04     -       -      -       -      0.10    0.15    70%
Equipment/Vehicles      0.60    2.18    0.50    -      6.75   3.18   13.20    24%
Initial Medical Supplies   5.51   31.15  -      -       -       -     36.66     -
Media                   1.27    3.69     -       -      -       -      4.96     -
Training/TA/Studies     4.05    5.19   10.06    2.20    0.13    5.51   27.13    20%
Grants                   -       -       -     10.80    -       -     10.80     -
Drugs/Reagents           -       -       -       -     7.36    6.68   14.04    48%
Medical Supplies/Materials 2.55  -       -       -      -       -      2.55     -
Operating Costs         7.89    1.19     -      -       -       -      9.08     -
Total Project Cost     26.66   54.00   10.55   13.00   14.24   18.00  136.44    13%
a/ Costs by component and financier are given in Annex 12.
3.8      All cofinancing would be on a parallel basis and administered by the
respective donors.
C. Procurement
3.9      Estimated project costs by expenditure category and procurement method
are summarized in Table 3.4 below. Procurement of works, goods and services
financed by the IBRD Loan would be undertaken in accordance with Guidelines for
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992) and Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency (August 1981). The project's four cofinanciers--ADB, AIDAB, KfW and
EC--would administer procurement for the parts of the project that they are
financing according to their respective rules and procedures.
3.10     Procurement arrangements for works, goods and services to be financed
by the IBRD Loan would be as follows:
(a)  Civil Works, totalling about US$4.3 million equivalent, with an
average contract value of under $70,000, would be grouped into about
60 contracts and procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank. The small average size of the
contracts, the nature of the works (mainly minor renovation of rural
health facilities, and construction/rehabilitation of provincial
warehouses) and their geographical dispersion are unlikely to attract
the interest of foreign bidders. Overall responsibility for works
procurement would rest with the DOH Health Infrastructure Service;
bid evaluation and award would be carried out by Department of Public
Works and Highways staff of the concerned city or municipality,
subject to the approval of the DOH Infrastructure Service.



- 24 -
Table 3.4: PROJECT COSTS BY PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method                         Total Cost
Expenditure Category                 -----------------------------                    (including
ICB        LCE       Other        N.B.F.       contingencies)
1.  Works                                              4.3                    13.5 d/          17.9
(2.5)                                    (2.5)
2.  Goods
2.1  Furniture                          -          -          .15 a/        -               .15
(.10)                         (.10)
2.2  Equipment and vehicles            2.1        0.9        0.5 b/        9.8 e/          13.2
(2.1)      (0.8)      (0.3)                         (3.2)
2.3  Drugs, reagents, medical          2.7        3.3        3.3 b/       44.0 f/          53.2
supplies and materials          (2.7)       (2.0)      (2.0)                         (6.7)
2.4  Media                                                                 5.0 d/           5.0
(-)
3.  Services
3.1  Consultant services                                     2.0 c/       11.5 S/          13.5
(1.9)                         (1.9)
3.2  Training                                                2.7 c/        9.7 h/          12.4
(2.6)                         (2.6)
3.3  Studies                                                 1.2 c/                         1.2
(1.0)                         (1.0)
4.  Miscellaneous
4.1  Grants                                                *              10.8 i/          10.8
(-)
4.2  Salaries                                                              2.6 d/           2.6
(-)
4.3  Other operating costs              _                                  6.5 d/           6.5
(-)
Total                            4.8         8.5        9.9        113.3            136.4
(4.8)      (5.3)      (7.9)                        (18.0)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-Financed.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IBRD Loan.
a/ Local shopping.
b/ Shopping, Limited International Bidding or direct procurement.
c/ In accordance with Bank policies and procedures for specialist services, overseas
training and studies, and with regular Government procedures for local training.
d/ To be financed by the ADB and the Government.
e/ To be financed by the ADB, AIDAB, KfW and the Government.
f/ To be financed by the ADB, KfW and the Government.
S/ To be financed by the ADB, AIDAB, the EC, KfW and the Government.
h/ To be financed by the ADB, AIDAB and the Government.
i/ To be financed by the EC.



- 25 -
(b) Goods (Equipment. Vehicles, Drugs. Reagents. Medical Supplies and
Materials), totalling about US$12.95 million equivalent, would to the
extent practicable be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost at
least US$200,000 each, which would be procured under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures. It is estimated that up to an
aggregate amount of US$4.8 million would be procured under ICB. In
accordance with Bank guidelines, eligible domestic manufacturers would
be allowed a preferential margin of 15% or the existing customs duty,
whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing imports in the
comparison of bids for goods to be procured through ICB. Contract
packages valued at less than US$200,000, up to an aggregate total of
US$4.2 million, would be awarded through LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$100,000, not to
exceed US$2.2 million in the aggregate, would be procured through
shopping procedures based on written quotations from at least three
local or foreign suppliers. Limited International Bidding (LIB) or
direct procurement would also be authorized for specialized equipment,
drugs and reagents with single or limited suppliers, and would total
no more than US$1.75 million.
(c) Consultant Services. Training and Studies, totalling about US$5.9
million equivalent, would be procured in accordance with Bank policies
and procedures on the selection and employment of consultants for
specialist services, overseas training and studies, and in accordance
with regular Government procedures for local training. An estimated
total of 470 staff-months of local and foreign specialist services
would be provided through approximately 12 consulting contracts with
values ranging from US$20,000 to US$1 million. About 4,000 staff-
months of training would also be provided, mainly through local
training programs.
3.11     The following would be subject to prior review by the Bank:  (a)
contracts awarded on the basis of ICB procedures; (b) contracts for works and
goods with an estimated value of at least US$200,000 equivalent; (c) standard
bidding documents for LCB procurement and the first LCB contracts for works and
goods, regardless of amount; (d) consultants' contracts with an estimated value
of at least US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for
individuals; (e) all single-source consultant contracts, consultant contracts
for assignments of a critical nature as determined by the Bank, amendments to
contracts of consulting firms raising the contract value to the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more, and amendments to contracts of consulting individuals
raising the contract value to the equivalent of US$50,000 or more; and (f)
terms of reference for all technical assistance (including studies) and
training. Contracts not covered by these prior review requirements, as well as
expenditures not covered by contract, would be subject to selective post-review
by the Bank.  For goods and works, respectively, the prior review process would
cover about 85% and 80% of the total value of Bank-financed contracts. The
Bank's standard bidding documents will be used for all ICB procurement.



- 26 -
D. Disbursements
3.12     The proposed IBRD Loan of US$18.0 million equivalent would be
disbursed over six years, with disbursements to be completed by a Closing Date
of December 31, 2000. The proposed disbursement schedule is two years shorter
than the disbursement profile for population, health and nutrition projects in
the East Asia and Pacific Region (Annex 14), but is considered feasible given
project management capacities in the DOH, the attention given to implementation
planning during project preparation, and recent measures taken by the Bank and
the Government to address disbursement issues in the Philippines.
3.13     The disbursement performance of projects in the Philippines has not
been uniformly good, with profiles ranging from 5 years for the financial
sector to 9 years for the transport sector. Poor disbursements have been
related to inadequate budgetary provisions for foreign-assisted projects, cash
flow shortages caused by inefficient budget release practices, and restrictions
on the operation of Special Accounts. Addressing these generic causes of
disbursement delays has been a central focus of Government and Bank efforts to
improve the performance of the country portfolio. Measures have been taken to
ensure that budgetary requirements for priority projects (including the
proposed project) would be provided, and improved Special Account arrangements
have been agreed upon which, among others, would allow implementing agencies
direct access to the Accounts.
3.14     For the proposed project, project costs will be linked to project
implementation plans (through the use of Computerized Project Management) in
order to develop realistic forecasts of cash flow requirements. Project
management capacities in the DOH are also well-developed, relative to other
implementing units, and while initial implementation difficulties are being
experienced with the Urban Health and Nutrition Project, disbursements for the
Philippine Health Development Project approved in 1989 have been consistently
ahead of schedule.
3.15     Disbursements to be made against the proposed IBRD Loan are
summarized in Table 3.5. Disbursements would be made against: (a) 90% of
total expenditures for civil works; (b) for drugs, reagents, medical supplies,
equipment, vehicles and furniture, 100% of foreign expenditures for directly
imported goods, 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory cost) for locally-
manufactured goods, and 85% of local expenditures for other goods procured
locally; and (c) 100% of total expenditures for consultant services, training
and studies.
3.16     Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) for actual expenditures against: (a) contracts of less than US$200,000
equivalent for works and goods; (b) consultants' contracts of less than
US$100,000 equivalent for firms and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals; and
(c) local training. Disbursements for all other expenditures would be
supported by full documentation. Supporting documentation for all
disbursements against SOEs would be held by the DOH and made available upon
request for examination by Bank review missions.
3.17     To facilitate timely project implementation and disbursements, the
Government would establish and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank, a Special Account. During negotiations, agreement was reached



- 27 -
with the Government that the Special Account would be established and held in
the Central Bank of the Philippines. The Account would cover the Bank's share
of eligible project expenditures in all disbursement categories. The Account
would be denominated in US Dollars, with an authorized allocation of US$1.0
million; however, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to US$300,000 until disbursements and outstanding commitments
against the Loan equal or exceed US$5.0 million. Applications for
replenishment of the Account, supported by appropriate documentation, would be
submitted regularly (preferably monthly, but not less than quarterly) or when
the amounts withdrawn equal 50% of the initial deposit.
3.18     Cofinancing from the ADB, AIDAB, KfW and the EC would be on a parallel
basis and each donor would administer its respective contribution. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government that the following
would be conditions of Loan disbursement: (a) effectiveness of the cofinancing
agreement with KfW, in respect of expenditures for drugs and reagents for the
RTIs/STDs sub-component of the project; and (b) effectiveness of the
cofinancing agreement with AIDAB, in respect of expenditures for consultant
services, studies and training for the training sub-component of the
project.-/
Table 3.5: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
Financing
Expenditure Category         Amount in USS million        Percentage
(1) Civil works                          2.4             90% of total expenditures
(2) Goods, including drugs and            6.2
reagents (except for the RTIs/
STDs sub-component), medical                  |      100% of foreign expenditures;
supplies, equipment, vehicles                 |      100% of local expenditures
and furniture                                         (ex-factory cost);
|     85% of local expenditures
(3) Drugs and reagents for the            3.3     |       for other items procured
RTIs/STDs sub-component                     _.        locally
(4) Consultant services, studies          2.7
and training (except for the
training sub-component)
100% of total expenditures
(5) Consultant services, studies          2.5     I
and training for the training
sub-component
(6) Unallocated                           0.9
Total                            18.0
5/ The Bank's main concern with the ADB cofinancing agreement is covered by
specific conditionalities pertaining to the Project Management Office
(para. 4.3), and no condition is required for the EC grant since there is
less cross-dependency between the Community Partnerships Component, which
will be fully financed by the EC, and other project components.



- 28 -
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization
4.1      The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period
(1995-99) by the DOH and local health offices at the provincial/city, municipal
and barangay levels. Under the devolved system, the DOH would provide overall
technical and managerial direction, as well as undertake direct implementation
of nationally-retained functions, including training, IEC, logistics and
research. LGUs would be responsible for the actual delivery of project
services in their respective jurisdictions, and for integrating these services
into their regular public health programs. The DOH would support LGUs in
project implementation by, among others, distributing goods and services that,
for reasons of cost and efficiency, will continue to be procured centrally. A
more detailed description of the project management and implementation
arrangements is given in Annex 9.
4.2      Overall responsibility for the project would be placed in the DOH
Office of Special Concerns, which is headed by an Assistant Secretary reporting
to the Undersecretary-level Chief of Staff. The Chief of Staff and OSC
Assistant Secretary would serve as the Project Director and Project
Coordinator, respectively. Day-to-day coordination of project activities would
be delegated to a Project Management Office (PMO) for the Women's Health and
Safe Motherhood Project, which would be established in the OSC and headed by a
full-time Project Manager. A Project Steering Committee, chaired by the
Project Director and comprising Undersecretaries of the DOH and other concerned
Government agencies, would provide policy guidance on the implementation of the
project and approve annual implementation plans and budgets.
4.3      The PMO would be responsible for consolidating project plans and
budgets, monitoring project activities, preparing project reports and
documentation, and liaising with external donors. For procurement and
disbursement, the PMO would rely on an existing Project Coordination Unit which
handles these functions for externally-financed DOH projects, including the two
ongoing Bank-assisted projects. During negotiations, agreement was reached
that the Government would establish and maintain until project completion the
PMO, headed by a qualified Project Manager and staffed by qualified personnel
in adequate numbers; understandings vere reached on the PMO's staffing
complement. The establishment of the PMO and appointment of the Project
Manager would be conditions of Loan effectiveness.
4.4      Agreement was further reached during negotiations that the Government
would, not later than July 1, 1995: (a) establish the Project Steering
Committee; (b) designate the DOH Undersecretary/Chief of Staff and Assistant
Secretary for Special Concerns as the Project Director and Project Coordinator,
respectively; (c) employ and assign to the PMO a Desk Officer, acceptable to
the Bank, who shall be responsible for overseeing the implementation of
activities financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (d) assign to the DOH
regional field offices responsibility in their respective regions for
coordination of project implementation, monitoring of progress in project
performance, assisting in the collection of documentation to support statements
of expenditures, and preparation of financial statements and accounts.



- 29 -
4.5      As the managers of all devolved primary health care workers and
facilities, LGUs would be responsible for the actual delivery of project
services in provinces, cities, municipalities and barangays. Project
implementation responsibility at the local level would be centered on the
Provincial, City or Municipal Health Officer, who works under the authority of
the Provincial Governor, City or Municipal Mayor, respectively, and local
councils. The Health Officer would be responsible for coordinating the inputs
of central and local government departments and NGOs involved in
implementation.
4.6      The project would provide goods and services to LGUs (and from there,
to project communities) through two administrative channels: (a) the DOH and
its regional field offices for items to be procured centrally and distributed
to individual health units (e.g., drugs) and for items to be provided through
the regions (e.g., training); and (b) the LGUs procuring or providing goods or
services (e.g., medical supplies, midwives). The appropriate channel for each
project activity would be reflected in the LGUs' annual plans and budgets.
4.7      The DOH units responsible for various technical and functional
disciplines related to the project would provide guidelines and technical
assistance to LGUs to assist in implementing project activities in their
respective disciplines. The DOH central units would be assisted in this
technical support role by its regional field offices. In addition, staff from
the relevant technical units would form a task force to initiate, oversee and
sustain the changes required by the life cycle approach to be piloted under the
project (paras. 2.14-2.18).
4.8      For the implementation of civil works activities, the DOH
Infrastructure Service would contract private consultants in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The consultants would be responsible for the preparation of
contract documents, detailed architectural and engineering plans, technical
specifications, estimates and bidding documents based on model plans, schematic
plans and outline specifications prepared by the DOH. They would appraise the
sites or existing facilities and assist the local authority in the bidding
process. They would also provide construction supervision, including time and
cost control.
4.9      The project would be carried out on the basis of an overall
implementation plan satisfactory to the Bank. During negotiations,
understandings were reached on the Government's initial implementation plan,
and agreement was reached that the Government would update its project
implementation plan in consultation with the Bank not later than December 31 of
each year, beginning in 1995.
B. Proiect Implementation under Devolution
4.10     The devolution strategy of the DOH aims to provide fair and equitable
opportunities to LGUs to participate in and benefit from the project, to build
sustainable DOH-LGU partnerships, and to assure coherent and effective
nationwide implementation of the project. Towards these ends: (a) project-
specific agreements would be entered into between the DOH and LGUs within the
context of the CHCAs (para. 1.38); and (b) project resources would be allocated
and provided as grants to participating LGUs on the basis of need and under
variable cost-sharing arrangements.



- 30 -
CHCAs and PIAs
4.11     The CHCAs are the overall agreements between the DOH and LGUs under
which the local governments commit to financing and implementing health
programs in their localities in exchange for services and additional resources
to be provided by or through the DOH. The CHCAs provide for LGUs to finance
the operation of their devolved health systems at a baseline set roughly at the
pre-devolution level of DOH spending in the locality; in addition, the LGUs
commit to spending incremental amounts in the implementation of priority health
programs, including the Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Program. To cover
specific program or project requirements, supplementary agreements are to be
negotiated and appended to the CHCAs as these requirements are defined and as
funds (local or external) become available.
4.12     Supplementary agreements to the CHCAs, in the form of Project
Implementation Agreements (PIAs) between the DOH and individual LGUs, would
cover the implementation of the proposed project. During negotiations,
understandings were reached with the Government that the PIAs would be modelled
after the Memoranda of Agreement entered into between the DOH and LGUs under
the Urban Health and Nutrition Project. Agreement was also reached that the
PIAs would include: (a) the project activities that the LGU is committing to
undertake and/or support; (b) the financing share of the National Government to
be allocated and made available to the LGU on a grant basis; (c) the financing
share of the LGU; (d) the delineation of tasks and responsibilities of the DOH
and the LGU in the implementation of the project; (d) undertaking by a
provincial LGU to negotiate, within three months of the execution of its PIA,
agreements with the municipalities located within the province regarding their
respective responsibilities and contributions under the project; (e)
undertaking by the LGU to release its health staff to participate in training
activities under the project; and (f) provision for suspension or cancellation
of the assistance to the concerned LGU in the event of its failure to comply
with its obligations under its PIA.
Resource Allocation and Cost-Sharing
4.13     Consistent with devolution, the project would be implemented based
on the principle that health services delivery is the responsibility of local
governments. However, financing assistance from the National Government can be
justified and would be provided to: (a) correct inherent inequities arising
from the patterns of local subsidies for retained national health facilities
and the distribution of devolved assets, as well as from differences in
revenue-earning ability; (b) assist LGUs in making the transition to a devolved
system; and (c) encourage local spending on priority health programs with
significant national public good characteristics and spillover benefits.
A further discussion of the public financing of health under devolution is
provided in Annex 7.
4.14     The National Government will seek to ensure that health services
are provided efficiently and equitably through grant transfers which combine
incentives and conditionality. By participating in the project, LGUs would
obtain additional resources for meeting local needs for women's health and safe
motherhood services. At the same time, the LGUs would agree to providing a
specific set of services and to sharing in the cost of their provision. A
decision support model would be used as the basis for allocating project



- 31 -
resources and determining the appropriate cost-share levels to be borne by
LGUs.
4.15     Resources would be allocated to LGUs on the basis of need, using
specifically-defined criteria, and most of the resources under the project
would be allocated by design. Where resources cannot be tied to a specific
indicator of need, a resource allocation index incorporating measures of
maternal mortality, infant mortality, contraceptive prevalence, poverty and
population indicators would be utilized.
4.16     LGUs would share financial responsibility for the services to be
provided under the project. The basis for estimating cost-share levels to be
assumed by LGUs would be an index incorporating the following principles:
(a) localities that are richer should bear a larger share of the costs than
those which are poorer; (b) LGUs that spend less for health relative to their
total revenues should bear a larger share of the costs than those that are
already spending more; (c) localities with a lower absolute poverty burden
should bear a larger share of the costs than those with a higher poverty
burden; and (d) LGUs with a lower fiscal burden for health should bear a larger
share of the costs than those with a higher fiscal burden. Cost-sharing
arrangements would be designed to result in an LGU contribution of at least 15%
of the total project cost.
4.17     The DOH would estimate the amounts of project resources to be
allocated to each province and the cost-share levels to be borne by each LGU.
These estimates would serve as a starting point for negotiations with LGUs to
determine the actual amounts the DOH and LGUs would commit to the project.
In addition to resource and cost-share levels, the phasing of the cost-share
contributions of LGUs would also be negotiated. In general, LGUs would be
required to pick up in their budgets an increasing annual share of these
incremental costs to help ensure sustainability.
4.18     The conceptual framework and application of the resource allocation
and cost-sharing models are further described in Annex 8. During negotiations,
understandings were reached with the Government on the principles and criteria
for determining resource allocations, cost-share levels and phasing thereof for
each LGU. Given that the process of devolution is still at a stage of
transition, the experience of negotiating with LGUs and their compliance with
the provisions of the PIAs would be closely monitored for the first two years
and reviewed in depth as part of the project mid-term review (para. 4.23).
4.19     Services under the project would be offered free of charge and no
formal cost recovery arrangements would be instituted since the Government does
not want to limit access to services which have substantial public good
characteristics and spillover benefits. Recent surveys have also confirmed
that the large majority of users of public health facilities and services
belong to the lowest-income groups. In addition, there was concern over the
complications of setting up cost recovery systems during a period of transition
to a devolved system of public health service delivery. The project would,
however, pilot the social marketing of iron, iodine and Vitamin A supplements
and disposable home-based delivery kits (para. 2.6) to determine the ability
and willingness to pay among clients for such interventions. The DOH is also
studying, with the support of USAID, the full range of health financing options



- 32 -
(including user fees and health insurance schemes) with a view to promoting the
sustainability of and access to public health services.
C. Accounts and Auditing
4.20     The DOH and participating LGUs would maintain separate accounts of
project expenditures in accordance with sound accounting practices, and project
accounts would be audited in accordance with Guidelines for Financial Reporting
and AuditLng of Projects Financed by the World Bank (The World Bank, March
1982). Proposals from NGOs under the community partnerships component would
include related record-keeping and audit requirements. During negotiations,
agreement was reached that the Government would provide to the Bank an audit
report, including separate opinions by the auditor on the operation of the
Special Account and on disbursements against certified SOEs, within nine months
of the end of each Government fiscal year.
D. Progress Reviews and Reporting
4.21     The PMO would be responsible for monitoring project implementation
progress and performance. During negotiations, understandings were reached
with the Government on selected key indicators to monitor and evaluate overall
project implementation progress and results. These key indicators, as well as
the more detailed list of input, process, outcome and impact variables against
which each of the project components would be assessed, are given in Annex 11.
4.22     The PMO would produce progress reports based on service statistics and
other field data. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the
Government would furnish semi-annual reports to the Bank by June 30 and
December 31 of each year, beginning in 1995. These reports would constitute
the basis for semi-annual project performance reviews to be undertaken with the
Bank. To help ensure proper coordination, at least one of the two reviews each
year would be held jointly with all of the project's cofinanciers. The PMO
would also be responsible for organizing annual workshops to review
implementation progress with LGUs, which would be timed to support the annual
preparation of operational plans and budgets.
4.23     At mid-term, the DOH would conduct a comprehensive review to determine
if there is a need for major changes to project design and implementation
targets. Particular attention would be given to the experience with the
implementation of devolution-related strategies (paras. 4.10-4.18). Agreement
was reached during negotiations that the Government would, by June 30, 1998,
carry out a comprehensive mid-term review of project implementation on the
basis of terms of reference developed in consultation with the Bank. Agreement
was also reached that, within six months of the Closing Date, the Government
would submit to the Bank a final evaluation report on the project and a plan of
such scope and detail as the Bank may request for the future operation of the
completed project.
E. Project Evaluation
4.24     The project would be evaluated from three perspectives:  performance,
process and impact. Project performance evaluation would focus on the annual
measurement of outputs with respect to physical accomplishments, financial
performance and client satisfaction. Its objective would be to identify



- 33 -
problems and issues that arise in the course of project implementation, and
recommend measures to accelerate activities or redirect project efforts. It
would include the review of program indicators as well as of client feedback on
the performance of the DOH and local health offices. Data would be generated
from program monitoring systems and ongoing beneficiary analysis.
4.25     Process evaluation would examine the approaches used in service
delivery and for community participation, attempt to explain variations in
levels of performance for comparable project inputs, and derive suggestions for
improved approaches. This type of evaluation would be undertaken at mid-term
and the end of the project, and would utilize mainly structured interviewing,
participant observation and focus group methodologies.
4.26     Impact evaluation would focus on project outcomes in terms of improved
efficiency of DOH systems, improvements in equity of access to DOH services,
and morbidity and mortality reductions which can be measured by the end of the
project. This evaluation would primarily be a quantitative analysis of the
contribution of project inputs to sector outcomes, the cost-effectiveness of
interventions supported by the project, and the financial sustainability of
project benefits. During negotiations, understandings were reached with the
Government that implementation of the different service packages under the
project would be evaluated separately, i.e., provinces receiving maternal care,
RTIs/STDs and cervical cancer services as an integrated package would be
compared to those receiving only one or two components.
4.27     The three types of evaluations would be undertaken through technical
assistance contracts with local university-based or other qualified research
groups, and supported under the policy and operations research component of the
project. The PMO would be responsible for their overall direction and ensuring
that they are carried out. Terms of reference for each of the studies would be
reviewed and agreed upon with the Bank.
V. PROJECT BENEFITS. RISKS AND IMPACT
A. Benefits
5.1      The main project benefit would be better health for women as a
result of improved access to women's health services. Project beneficiaries
are estimated to include: about 4 million women who will become pregnant
during the life of the project; about 500,000 of these pregnant women who will
suffer from obstetric complications; about 1.7 million women of reproductive
age who have declared an unmet need for family planning services and a
preference for voluntary surgical contraception; an estimated 300,000 women who
would not otherwise be treated for RTIs/STDs; and an estimated 1.1 million
women who would be screened for cervical cancer. Better health for women would
eventually be reflected in reduced levels of fertility, female morbidity and
maternal mortality. These improvements would have substantial spillover
benefits on the productivity of women and that of their households and
communities, and on the survival, health and education outcomes of their
children. Progress in realizing these benefits would be assessed on the basis
of monitoring indicators agreed upon with the Government.



- 34 -
5.2      The project's institutional benefits would include:  building the
capacity of LGUs in managing health programs, and of the DOH to provide support
to local governments; and involving NGOs and project beneficiaries in
formulating and implementing solutions to women's health problems in their
communities. In addition, research on priority women's health issues for which
there is currently limited information will help design future interventions
that can further enhance the quality of women's lives.
B. Risks
5.3      There are two main risks related to implementing a project of national
scope in a devolved system. In the first instance, LGUs will themselves decide
whether to participate in the project. Populations in LGU jurisdictions that
opt out could not therefore benefit from the project, the scope of the project
would be reduced, and national program objectives would be threatened. The
following measures have been undertaken to address this risk: (a) cost-sharing
arrangements would provide adequate financial incentives for LGU participation;
(b) the project has been designed for phased implementation by province over
the life of the project, giving the DOH time to negotiate acceptable
arrangements with other LGUs; (c) the DOH has initiated the dialogue with LGUs
through the CHCA negotiations process with a view to building commitment to
national health priorities, including the proposed project; and (d) women's
NGOs and community groups were actively involved in project preparation and are
likely to press local officials to participate in the project.
5.4      The second devolution-related risk is that LGUs would not have the
managerial and technical capacities to implement the project. Substantial
institution-building activities are included in the project to address this
risk. Phased implementation of the project will also help ensure that adequate
training will have been provided before service activities are undertaken in a
particular jurisdiction.
5.5      A third project risk is that implementation would be delayed by the
lack of adequate cash flows which have plagued other projects in the sector.
This risk has been reduced by actions taken on the country portfolio level to
ensure that a limited number of priority projects, including the proposed
project, would be fully funded; the new Special Account arrangements are also
expected to improve the situation. Finally, there is the risk of poor or
insufficient coordination of activities financed by the various donors. This
risk would be minimized by assigning overall responsibility for the project to
the PMO in the DOH, agreeing upon an integrated implementation plan, and
conducting joint annual reviews during implementation.
C. Impact
5.6      Women in Development.  Women are the primary targets of the project,
thus project benefits would accrue directly to them. In addition, the project
would provide further training for the mainly female midwife cadre which would
deliver most of the services under the project, thus increasing their skill
level and status. Women's groups are likely to represent a substantial
proportion of the beneficiaries of the community partnerships component, and
the policy and operations research component would help to establish the scope
of other women's health problems (such as breast cancer and violence against
women) and to define appropriate public health responses.



- 35 -
5.7      Environmental AsRects.  No project-related risks to the environment
are foreseen. In the long-term, an effective women's health program will lower
fertility rates and reduce the environmental pressures associated with rapid
population growth.
5.8      Poverty Alleviation.  Providing basic health services is a key element
of poverty alleviation, and women's health interventions yield some of the
highest social and economic benefits. Poor women would benefit most from the
project because they are disproportionately affected by the disease burden,
tend to have larger family sizes, and are the main users of public health
facilities and services. The project would also apply specific health risk
assessment and targeting mechanisms for directing resources to the poor and
vulnerable, including area-based and life cycle approaches to service delivery,
and the use of resource allocation and cost-sharing indices which incorporate
poverty indicators.
D. Sustainability
5.9      To help ensure the financial sustainability of the project, the DOH
developed its Ten-Year Public Investment Program as the framework for measuring
project investments in light of total resources available to the sector, the
impact project investments would have on health expenditures, and the priority
the Government attaches to the project. Under the project itself, funds would
be made available through cost-sharing arrangements in which participating LGUs
would absorb an increasing share of recurrent costs during the life of the
project. Increased community awareness of and involvement in project
activities would help generate popular demand for sustained budgetary
commitments to women's health care. As a longer-term measure, the DOH is being
assisted by USAID to identify other alternatives for financing health services.
5.10     The project would support training, technical assistance and
administrative systems to help strengthen the technical and managerial skills
of DOH and LGU staff, and thereby develop the institutional capacities required
to sustain the delivery of women's health services and their expected benefits
beyond the project.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on the
following, as covenants in the Loan Agreement:
(a) that a Special Account would be established and held in the Central
Bank of the Philippines [para. 3.17; Sec. 2.02 (b)6/];
(b) that the Government would establish and maintain until project
completion the PMO, headed by a qualified Project Manager and staffed
by qualified personnel in adequate numbers [para. 4.3; Sec. 3.03];
6/ Paragraph numbers indicate references within this Staff Appraisal Report;
section and schedule/paragraph numbers indicate references in the Loan
Agreement.



- 36 -
(c)  that the Government would, not later than July 1, 1995:  (i) establish
the Project Steering Committee, (ii) designate the DOH Undersecretary/
Chief of Staff and Assistant Secretary for Special Concerns as the
Project Director and Project Coordinator, respectively, (iii) employ
and assign to the PMO a Desk Officer, acceptable to the Bank, who
shall be responsible for overseeing the implementation of activities
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and (iv) assign to the DOH
regional field offices responsibility in their respective regions for
coordination of project implementation, monitoring of progress in
project performance, assisting in the collection of documentation to
support statements of expenditures, and preparation of financial
statements and accounts [para. 4.4; Schedule 5, paras. 1-5];
(d)  that the Government would update its project implementation plan in
consultation with the Bank not later than December 31 of each year,
beginning in 1995 [para. 4.9; Schedule 5, para. 7];
(e)  that the PIAs would include:  (i) detailed description of the project
activities that the LGU is committing to undertake and/or support,
(ii) the financing share of the National Government to be allocated
and made available to the LGU on a grant basis, (iii) the financing
share of the LGU, (iv) the delineation of tasks and responsibilities
of the DOH and the LGU in the implementation of the project, (v)
undertaking by a provincial LGU to negotiate, within three months of
the execution of its PIA, agreements with the municipalities located
within the province regarding their respective responsibilities and
contributions under the project, (vi) undertaking by the GU to
release its health staff to participate in training activities under
the project, and (vii) provision for suspension or cancellation of the
assistance to the concerned LGU in the event of its failure to comply
with its obligations under its PIA [para. 4.12; Schedule 5, para. 6];
(f)  that the Government would provide to the Bank an audit report,
including separate opinions by the auditor on the operation of the
Special Account and on disbursements against certified SOEs, within
nine months of the end of each Government fiscal year [para. 4.20;
Sec. 4.01 (b)];
(g)  that the Government would furnish to the Bank semi-annual reports by
June 30 and December 31 of each year, beginning in 1995 [para. 4.22;
Schedule 5, para. 8];
(h)  that the Government would, by June 30, 1998, carry out a comprehensive
mid-term review of project implementation on the basis of terms of
reference developed in consultation with the Bank [para. 4.23;
Sec. 3.05]; and
(i)  that, within six months of the Closing Date, the Government would
submit to the Bank a final evaluation report on the project and a plan
of such scope and detail as the Bank may request for the future
operation of the completed project [para. 4.23; Sec. 3.02].



- 37 -
6.2      During negotiations, understandings were reached with the Government
and recorded in the Minutes of Negotiations on the following:
(a) the staffing complement of the PMO [para. 4.3];
(b) the Government's initial implementation plan [para. 4.9];
(c) that the PIAs would be modelled after the Memoranda of Agreement
entered into between the DOH and LGUs under the Urban Health and
Nutrition Project [para. 4.12];
(d) the principles and criteria for determining resource allocations,
cost-share levels and phasing thereof for each LGU [para. 4.18];
(e) selected key indicators to monitor and evaluate overall project
implementation progress and results [para. 4.21]; and
(f) that implementation of the different service packages under the
project would be evaluated separately, i.e., provinces receiving
maternal care, RTIs/STDs and cervical cancer services as an integrated
package would be compared to those receiving only one or two
components [para. 4.26].
6.3      Agreement was reached during negotiations that the establishment of
the PMO and the appointment of the Project Manager would be conditions of Loan
effectiveness [para. 4.3; Sec. 6.01].
6.4      Agreement was reached during negotiations that the following would be
conditions of Loan disbursement:
(a) effectiveness of the cofinancing agreement with KfW, in respect of
expenditures for drugs and reagents for the RTIs/STDs sub-component
of the project [para. 3.18; Schedule 1, para. 3 (b)]; and
(b) effectiveness of the cofinancing agreement with AIDAB, in respect
of expenditures for consultant services, studies and training for
the training sub-component of the project [para. 3.18; Schedule 1,
para. 3 (c)].
6.5      Subject to the conditions in paras. 6.1 to 6.4 above, the proposed
project would constitute a suitable basis for an IBRD Loan of US$18.0 million
equivalent to the Republic of the Philippines for a term of 20 years, including
5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



- 38 -
LIST OF ANNEXES
1: Public Investment Strategy and Plan for the Health Sector
2: List of Provinces To Be Covered by the Maternal Care, RTIs/STDs
and Cervical Cancer Sub-components*
3: Maternal Care Sub-component*
4: List of Drugs, Reagents and Medical Supplies for Other Women's
Health Services*
5: Information, Education and Communication Sub-component*
6: Description of Training for Health Care Workers*
7: Public Financing of Health in the Post-Devolution Era
8: Decision Support Models for Central-Local Financing of Public
Investments in Health: Conceptual Framework and Application
9: Project Management and Implementation Arrangements*
10: Implementation Schedule*
11: Monitoring Indicators*
12: Costs by Component, Category of Expenditure, Project Year
and Cofinancier*
13: Procurement Plan*
14: Disbursement Schedule and Profile
15: Supervision Plan
16: Selected Documents Available in the Project File
* Elements of the Borrower's Implementation Plan.



- 39 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Public Investment Strategy and Plan for the Health Sector1'
Public Investment Strategy
The DOH [Department of Health] proposes an investment strategy for the central
government which responds to the following considerations:
*  assure the sustainability of current national health programs such as EPI
[Expanded Program of Immunization], CDD [Control of Diarrheal Diseases], ARI
[Control of Acute Respiratory Infections], and control of prevalent diseases
particularly of the workforce, including TB [tuberculosis] and CVD
[cardiovascular disease];
*  address the gaps in priority programs such as family planning, maternal
care, nutrition and environmental health;
*  support the development of new institutional arrangements and capabilities
under devolution;
*  rationalize capital expenditures for health facilities, equipment and
infrastructure necessary for the personal health care needs of the poor.
The bulk of the proposed investments would be in support of incremental
recurrent costs for undertaking activities with a future stream of benefits.
Typically, the investment packages would consist of expenditures for expanded
and improved health service delivery, particularly of priority health programs;
for enhanced institutional capabilities in such areas as information systems,
procurement and logistics management and planning, particularly of local
governments; for development of community partnerships between LGUs, NGOs and
the communities themselves; and for research and development of policies,
operations and appropriate technologies.
The proposed public investment strategy consists of the following elements:
1.    Program content.  It will be focussed on priority health services and
essential health service capabilities. It will be targeted to meeting the
health needs of the population, namely: of mothers and children such as
women's health and safe motherhood services as well as child survival and
development services including nutrition; of people in the workforce at risk
from the prevalent diseases of tuberculosis, cardiovascular diseases, trauma,
injuries, poisoning from industrial pollution, malaria, schistosomiasis,
sexually-transmitted diseases; of households and communities at risk from
environmental degradation and sanitation deficiencies; and of the acutely ill
1/ Excerpted from Investing in Equity in Health:  Ten Year Public Investment
Plan for the Health Sector (1994-2004). Prepared by the Department of
Health, January 1994.



- 40 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
poor population requiring access to medical and hospital care. It will also be
directed to improving the efficiency and equity of the public health network
under devolution including the clinical referral system, expanding the
participation and contribution of NGOs and the private sector, and creating
basic technical capabilities in health service management and policy direction.
While the costs of addressing these problems are large, the costs of not
dealing with them adequately may even be larger. In addition, considerable
past investments may be eroded and their potential returns foregone if further
investments in these areas are not undertaken.
2.    Package approach.  The strategy will require the deployment of resources
in large scale coherent nationwide packages. The fragmentation of the health
system under devolution and the multiplication of factors affecting health
services output and impact demand that investment interventions do not come in
many small projects that are difficult to implement coherently and costly to
coordinate. On the other hand, the need to focus on the beneficiaries and the
population at risk, as well as the synergies inherent in the coordinated
delivery of technically inter-related services present opportunities for more
cost-effective investments. These reasons argue for investment packages.
3.    Devolution responsive.  The strategy will mobilize resources to address
the backlog of pre-devolution problems in the health sector, prevent the
transitional problems and risks of devolution from eroding recent gains, and
exploit the opportunities for efficiencies presented by devolution. The
investment projects will be planned and implemented in a manner consistent with
the goal of creating sustainable partnership between DOH and LGUs [local
government units] within the parameters of devolution. Consultative processes
will involve local governments; cost-sharing between national and local
governments will be a feature; division of labor and functions will be in
accordance with the LGC [Local Government Code]; the early projects will seek
to respond to the transitional problems of devolution; the later projects will
support the central government roles and functions beyond the transition. The
packages are designed to focus central government resources towards correcting
the inherent disincentives in local government expenditures for programs with
large spillover effects across localities and for providing services to the
non-taxpaying poor. On their own, local governments may tend to underinvest as
a whole and may tend to unevenly support programs whose benefits spillover to
other localities such as communicable diseases control. They may also
underinvest in providing adequate service coverage to the poorest as they would
place greater emphasis in maintaining or attracting a desirable tax base.
Health services are the local governments' responsibility. There is no
intention of supplanting their role through these investments. The object of
these projects and packages is to correct the disincentives which could limit
the efficiency and equity of local government behavior in this area.
4.    Sources of investment funding.  The proposed investments would be
financed by increased central government expenditures in health, shifting of
current central expenditures from less cost-effective measures (curative care,
overhead, lower priority programs) to more cost-effective national public good
priorities, greater mobilization of foreign assistance, greater contribution
from cost recovery measures, and appropriate cost sharing with local
governments. While the strategy is concerned with assuring that government is
spending the right amounts for the right things benefitting the right people,



- 41 -                           Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
it also needs to insure that sourcing the spending is equitable, efficient,
adequate and sustainable.
Proposed Public Investment Package
The investment strategy proposes to mobilize incremental resources in amounts
and duration indicated in support of the following packages. As of the end of
1993, the DOH was implementing current and on-going investment projects
estimated to cost about P7.8 billion. In addition to these, the DOH proposes
to put in place projects in packages with an estimated aggregate of P17.5
billion over the next five years. The following packages are proposed:
1.    Safe Motherhood and Women's Health.  This package is addressed to the
basic health needs of women, primarily poor women of reproductive age, with
special emphasis on the needs of mothers. The services to be financed include
family planning, maternal care, and the management of prevalent diseases of
women. The goal of the package is to insure universal access to family
planning information and services in accordance with the health needs and
fertility preferences of couples; reduce maternal mortality through proper pre-
natal care and delivery; reduce maternal morbidity through better mother's
nutrition, adequate spacing of pregnancies and improved access to quality
maternal care. The proposed investment will attempt to correct the imbalance
in public expenditures between health interventions addressed to children and
those addressed to the women who bear these children. The estimated cost of
the investment is P6.5 billion for the first five years from 1995 to 1999.
2.    Child Survival and Development.  This package is addressed to the basic
survival and essential early childhood intervention needs of the under-five
population. This includes sustaining immunization for the six childhood
diseases with particular emphasis on measles and polio eradication; control of
acute respiratory illnesses and diarrheal diseases; reduction of protein-energy
malnutrition and micronutrient deficiency in children. In addition to the
service delivery provisions, the package would address the policy, operational
and institutional issues of child survival and development. Particular
emphasis would be given to achieving the effective assumption of child survival
and development responsibility by the LGU with the participation of the
community. The proposed investment is estimated at approximately P5 billion
for the first 5 years (1995 to 1999).
3.    Control of Prevalent Diseases Affecting the Workforce.  This package
includes case finding and treatment of TB, case management and vector control
of malaria, continued case management of schistosomiasis, initiation of a
national capacity build-up for dealing with the HIV/AIDS epidemic, control of
sexually-transmitted diseases, start-up of national control programs for
cardiovascular diseases and cancers. The emphasis of the proposed investments
is primary prevention and early cure with priority on risk reduction factors.
The package could also include the strengthening of disease control
capabilities such as epidemic surveillance and disease monitoring system, the
public health research and development infrastructure including public health
laboratories, and the other technical support systems for nationwide disease
control (IEC [information, education and communication], training, and
logistics. One particular need is the development of a cadre of disease
control specialists that can be deployed in local governments, and the general



- 42 -                           Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
upgrading of health workers to deal with new diseases such as HIV/AIDS,
cancers, and cardiovascular diseases. The estimated cost of the investment is
approximately P4 billion for the period 1995 to 1999.
4.    Health Service Capacity Improvement.  This package includes future
capital investments in additional health facilities and in further health human
resource development. Policy reform in the public financing of hospitals will
be initiated in the direction of greater cost recovery from the population with
the means to pay, shifting of public subsidies in personal health care from
financing service production to public institutions to financing the service
consumption of the poor, and the establishment of clinically-based regulations
and standards. Planning standards for evaluating the efficiency and equity of
health facilities provisions for each locality would be developed. Based on
the application of these standards, a package of capital grants for facilities,
equipment and infrastructure would be provided to carry out local health
systems reforms including the improved linkage of DOH-retained facilities,
local government facilities and private facilities. In the health human
resource development area, a set of initiatives directed at production and
management of health human resources would be planned to achieve the improved
linkage of the health services production sector with the health manpower
development sector. Facilities needed by the first three packages including
vaccine production laboratories, upgrading of district hospitals and similar
inputs will be included in this package. An estimated P2 billion in addition
to the projected P3.3 billion in capital outlays already included as on-going
local projects is being proposed for the 1995 to 1999 period.
5.    Safe Water and Healthy Environment.  This package would seek to address
the remainder of the population without access to safe water and sanitary
toilets, start the development of better community sanitation through improved
waste management and better sewerage systems, and initiate initiatives towards
reduced pollution, lesser exposure to environmental hazards, and better linkage
between health and environment. This package is being proposed for inclusion
in the DPWH [Department of Public Works and Highways] and/or DENR [Department
of Environment and Natural Resources] as these sectors' contribution to a
better health.
6.    National Health Insurance.  This package consists of improvements and
reforms in the existing Medicare Program, establishment of a national framework
for universal insurance coverage, and the interim promotion of decentralized
and community-based health insurance schemes. The investment is gong to be
off-budget, using existing statutory funds as well as additional contributions
from households, employers, and local governments.
Financing the Proposed Public Investments
Total health expenditures are estimated at about 2 percent of GNP from 1985 to
1991, a level well below that of many other Asian countries. (The Philippines
ranks below Nepal, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Thailand, Sri Lanka, China, Malaysia
and India in terms of health spending as a proportion of GNP.) In the light of
the lack of basic health service coverage in many communities and segments of
the population and the extent of unmet needs in such necessities as family
planning, nutrition and control of prevalent diseases, the Philippines is
probably underspending for health.



- 43 -                           Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
The pattern of current spending presents additional problems.  Much of current
sector expenditures, about 55%, come from out-of-pocket payments of families,
payments which are not likely to go for basic preventive, promotive and early
cure services. In fact, much of these expenditures go for drugs, hospital
charges and doctors' fees. The government accounts for 36% of total spending.
This portion now becomes less easily manageable as it breaks up into the
central and local governments' portions. The rest of total expenditures come
from employers, private insurance and Medicare, sources which are also unlikely
to finance current as well as future provision of basic public health programs.
In the light of these conditions, the following approaches are being proposed
in order to finance the requirements of the above investment program:
1.    Increase the efficiency of the current DOH budget.  This can be done
through the possible reduction of overhead expenditures (about P1.7 billion of
the P7.1 billion of the 1994 budget) via streamlining and cost containment and
also the deployment of this overhead to achieve program efficiencies (leading
to reductions in the cost of investments without reducing the benefits).
Another possibility is the reduction in the cost of retained facilities (about
P2.9 billion of the 1994 budget) via greater cost recovery possibly from user
charges and service revenues as well as cost containment measures. Another
possibility is the reallocation of program expenditures (about P2.5 billion of
the 1994 budget) to better emphasize health priorities. Another measure of
efficiency improvement is the better use of program expenditures in order to
mobilize more counterpart funds from LGUs and NGOs, and also produce more
output and impact from the given outlays.
2.    Increase the level of public expenditure in health programs.  There are
many good reasons for increasing central government expenditures in health.
The areas of investments (immunization, family planning, prevalent diseases,
child care, safe motherhood) are not only politically attractive but also
economically valuable. The effective operation of the devolved system is at
stake in the transition period, and together with it the fate of the overall
decentralization and local autonomy program. The sector has demonstrated
previous capacity to succeed. Service delivery capacities are still largely
intact and available for mobilization, hence absorptive capacity concerns may
not be serious.
3.    Finance part of the expansion via foreign grant sources blended vith
regular revenue sources and foreign loan sources. Under the overall fiscal
program of the government, there is room for the financing of public health
sector expansion. Considering all the sources of expenditure financing versus
all the possible claims for expenditures, investment projects in health
consistent with the above strategy can rank among the best application of
funds. Current practice restricting health programs to grant sources reduces
the overall level of financing available, tends to fragment health programs
into small grant-financed projects, and misses out on the opportunity to
coherently design comprehensive nationwide coordinated programs. On the other
hand, if the government has determined for macro-economic policy reasons that
it shall borrow from various sources, then the project attributes of the health
investments should allow it access to all forms of financing available,
including loan financing when necessary.



- 44- A-ex 1
Page 6 of 6
4.    Establish cost sharing requirements for various health programs from
local governments. In addition to financing the costs of the basic service
infrastructure, the local governments could be asked to carry part of the
additional burden of financing the above investments. Some investments, being
national public goods, may have to be borne by the national government. But
for many programs, cost shares from local governments could account for
significant portions of the required investment financing. Ability and
willingness to pay would have to be considered in determining these cost shares
in addition to the character of the items to be financed and the nature of the
benefits that they yield.



45  -                                                       Annex 2
PHILIPPNES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
List of Provinces Tarteted for Intensive Coverage by the Maternal Care RTIs/STDs and Cervical Cancer Sub-components
MaternL Care                            RTIs/STDs                           Cervical Cancer
(40 provinces)                        (10 provinces)                         (15 provinces)
REGION I                                                        Pangasinan
La Union
CAR                      AbmA
Kalinga-Apayao*
Mountain Province
If ugao
Benguet*                                                                     Bengueto
REGION n                 Batanes*
Cagayan                                                                      Cagayan
Quinno
Isabela
REGION m                                                        Bulacan
Nueva Ecija
REGION IV                Auronra
Quezon                                Quezon
Romblon
Mindoro Occidental
Mindoro Oriental
Palawan
Ri4zal
REGION V                 Camarines Stur                         Carnaines Sur                          Camarines Sur
Catanduanes
Sorsogon
Masbate*
REGION VI                Capize
Antique
Guitnara*
Negros Occidenal                      Negros Occidental
lloilo
REGION VI]               Negos Orietal                          Negro rienal                           Negos Orientall
Cebu
REGION Vm                Northern Samar
Western Samar
Eastern Samar
Leyte del Norte                       Leyte del Norte*                        Leyte del Norte'
Leyte del Sur'
Bilirnn'
REGION IX                Zunboanp del None
Zamboanga del Sur'                    Zamboanga del Sur'                     Zamboanp del Sur'
Basilan*
REGION X                 Surigao del None
Agusan del Sur'
Misamis Oriental
REGION Xl                Surigao del Sur-
Davao del Norte
Davao del Sur
ARMM                     Lanao del Sur                          Lasso del Sur
North Coubao'                                                                 North Combato'
Maguinidanso'
Sulu,
Tawi-Tawis
President's Priority Provinces



- 46 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 8
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Maternal Care Sub-component
1.       In support of the national safe motherhood program of the Department
of Health (DOH), the maternal care sub-component of the Women's Health and Safe
Motherhood Project aims to decrease maternal mortality and morbidity, and to
strengthen the delivery of safe motherhood services in the provinces and
municipalities. Strengthening will be done through the provision of quality
pre-natal and screening services, management of normal births and obstetrical
complications, and post-natal care. The component will entail improvements in
the quality, accessibility and expansion of services at all levels, most
especially at the first level referral facilities.l/
2.       The sub-component has the following specific objectives:  (a) to
strengthen the referral systems and services of the public sector; (b) to
improve safe home births; (c) to provide logistical support to maternal health
care; and (d) to provide technical assistance and management.
3.       Intensive interventions will be focused on 40 priority provinces
listed in Table 1. The provinces were chosen based on the following criteria:
(a) high maternal mortality and morbidity; (b) poor provinces (based on the
Presidents priority province list which includes poverty levels and potential
for income generation); and (c) upgrading has not been undertaken in the
facility in the recent past.
Strengthening of the Referral System
4.       The maternal care sub-component project will strengthen the referral
system through improvements in infrastructure facilities and the provision of
required logistics. Specifically, the project will provide for the following:
(a) Upgrading of obstetric units in 40 provincial hospitals. This would
involve minor civil works for rAnovation of existing structures,
provision of essential obstetric equipment, instruments, and provision
of required drugs and supplies.    The list of hospitals to be
upgraded will be validated by the DOH before project implementation.
The upgrading/renovation of the facility will follow internationally-
accepted guidelines of minimum standards required for the provision of
first-referral level obstetric care.
Before construction begins, a detailed needs assessment will be
undertaken. This will involve detailed site visits to review the
actual needs for upgrading (i.e., rating the existing facility versus
the list of requirements for construction, equipment, staffing, etc.)
as well as assessing the capacity of the provincial hospital to absorb
The first-referral level obstetric facility is defined as a hospital able to
support Cesarean sections on a 24-hour basis.



- 47 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 8
such upgrading. The scope of construction work will focus on
upgrading of existing delivery suites, including expansion if
necessary, to suit the recommended prototype design. Prior to
upgrading activities, project related activities such as agreement
with the local government units, identification of counterpart funds
and agreements on maintenance and renovation plans, as well as the
site surveying and architectural modifications and bidding for works,
have to be finalized.
(b) Upgrading of 52 remote district hospitals in the 40 provinces to meet
the minimum international standards of a first-level health facility.
In remote areas, the provincial hospital may be too far from the
community to be able to provide the services to a woman suffering from
an obstetrical emergency on time. In this case, a facility closer to
the community needs to be upgraded to supply the first-referral level
of services.
As previously indicated, the upgrading/renovation of the facility will
follow the internationally-accepted guidelines of minimum standards
required for the provision of first-referral level obstetric care.
The 52 district hospitals to be upgraded by the project were chosen
based on the following criteria: (i) a 25-bed or greater capacity,
(ii) a facility to which the rural health midwives and rural health
doctors can directly refer, and which is a maximum of 2 hours via
common local transport distance from the majority of the rural
population; and (iii) a need for upgrading.
An initial list of the 52 district hospitals will be validated through
a needs assessment to be undertaken based on actual site visits.
(c) Establishment of 15 pilot lying-in clinics in remote rural health
units (RHUs). A lying-in clinic is a facility that provides normal
delivery care with overnight bed facilities for women and 24-hour
care. The project will support the construction of lying-in
facilities to offer a patient privacy and sanitation during
examination, delivery, and rooming-in (mother and infant).
(d) Establishment of 10 maternity waiting homes on a pilot basis.
A maternity waiting home is a halfway house for at-risk obstetrical
cases and women who live in very remote areas. The project will
support construction of these facilities.
(e) Upgrading of 160 RHUs in remote areas. This will involve civil works
(mainly renovation of facilities), and the provision of equipment,
instruments, drugs, and supplies and materials for remote RHUs.
Approximately 4 RHUs per province will be upgraded.
(f) Upgrading of 280 barangay health stations (BHSs) in remote areas.
This will entail renovation of existing facilities, and the provision
of medical instruments, drugs, an supplies and materials for these
remote BHSs. Approximately 7 BHSs per province will be upgraded.



- 48 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 8
Technical Assistance and Training
5.       Technical assistance, training, and logistical support would be
provided to promote safe home births, and improve the management of maternal
care services of the DOH central and regional field offices, and service
delivery in the provinces and municipalities. Specifically, the project will
provide for the following:
(a) Training on maternal care and the provision of trainee-replacement
scheme for staff in project-assisted facilities.
(b) Logistical support in the form of (i) 13,500 midwife delivery kits,
(ii) 1,900,000 disposable kits for mothers, (iii) 9,000 traditional
birth attendant kits, (iv) micronutrients (vitamin A, iodine, iron),
and (v) 5 million home-based mother's records.
(c) Consulting services to support key technical and implementation
functions of the project. This will include the organization of the
following technical assistance teams: (i) a Maternal Care Technical
Support team to provide technical inputs for maternity care service
deliveries, (ii) a Project Design and Implementation Team to oversee
the design and construction of all civil works to be undertaken by the
project; (iii) an Equipment and Medical Supply team to assist in the
development of specifications for equipment, preparation of tender
documentation and evaluation of tenders, and arrangements for
equipment and supplies distribution; (iv) a Benefit Monitoring and
Evaluation (BME) team to undertake BME activities for the project; and
(v) a Project Management Specialist.
(d) Nutritional support activities to all women, particularly pregnant
women, to avert the high prevalence of nutritional disorders among
women for iron, iodine, and vitamin A. This will entail the provision
of micronutrient supplementation, and investments in food
fortification promotional efforts and social marketing.
6.       The nutritional support activities will specifically provide for the
following:
(a) Iron supplementation (ferrous sulfate/folate) to 7.09 million pregnant
and 5 million lactating women. The project would also support studies
that will strengthen this activity in terms of the following:
(i)   The Nutrition Service and other agencies have commenced
activities regarding fortification of rice with iron. A blender
has been developed that can successfully fortify rice at local
milling levels with iron. However, the unit price of US$10,000
is more than what most millers can afford as an investment.
Testing of widespread acceptability in terms of taste, color and
price implications needs to be investigated.
(ii) The provision of free iron supplementation to women who can
afford to pay needs to be reviewed. The project will carefully
investigate means of social marketing of iron supplementation to



- 49 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 8
pregnant women, keeping a careful review on the profile of
clients, ability and willingness to pay and price elasticity.
(iii) Iodine supplementation (potassium iodate in oil). The project
will target the pregnant women in provinces found endemic for
iodine deficiency. This basically refers to areas that have
more than 5% of the population with visible goiter, or more than
5% of the 6-12 year old population with goiter and thyroid
enlargement.
Further, in support of the Government's goal of making available
nationwide iodized salt by 1995, the project will assist the Nutrition
Service in reviewing the utilization of iodized salt, especially by
the project's target groups, and will support piloting of a social
marketing approach to supplementation with cost-recovery arrangements.
(b) Vitamin A supplementation to 6.1 million lactating women.
Supplementation is only a short term-measure for Vitamin A deficiency
disorders. Longer-term approaches to improving diets in Vitamin A
rich foods need to be strengthened. The women's health training and
information, education and communication (IEC) sub-components and
nutrition gardens will assist in finding a more sustainable approach
to this problem.
7.       To increase the chance for sustainability of the above nutritional
interventions the project will support promotional activities for generating
private sector initiatives on food fortification (e.g., iron fortification of
rice, salt iodization, vitamin fortification of so-called junk foods), and
proper nutritional awareness through IEC.
List of Kits to be Provided
1. Safe Home Delivery Kits
Contents: The kits would include the following items, packaged in a low-
cost container:  sterile pads (2 pieces); plastic cord clamp (1 piece);
sterile razor blade (1 piece); sterile gauze pads (4 pieces); sterile
cotton balls (4 pieces); sterile gloves (1 pair); sterile cord tie (4
10-cm. sterilized pieces); Terramycin ointment (1 unit); Soap (1 unit).
Users:  The kit will be used by traditional birth attendants (TBAs) and
midwives for home deliveries and for the woman to take for normal
deliveries in a facility. The aim of the kit is to reduce the risk of
infection to mother and infant due to unsterile delivery and tools.
2. Obstetrical Kits for Traditional Birth Attendants
Contents: Thermometer, clinical, oral (I piece); plastic sheeting, 3'x 7'
(1 piece); gloves (1 pair); hinge type soap dish (1 piece); surgical
scissors, 5 1/2" (1 pair); forceps, haemostat, straight Kelly's (1 pair);
sponge holding forceps (1 pair); instrument tray with lid (1 piece); pocket
weighing scale, Salter type (1 piece); soap, 135 mg (1 piece); cord ties,



- 50 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 8
4/packet (1 packet); apron, plastic (1 piece); Terramycin eye ointment (1
piece); flashlight with batteries (1 unit); hand brush, nylon bristles (1
piece); cotton, 25 mg (6 pieces); bag, black leatherette (1 piece); suction
bulb syringe, reusable (1 piece).
Users: Trained traditional birth attendants for home deliveries.
3. Obstetrical Kit for Midwives
Contents. Carrying bag (1 piece); sphygmomanometer, aneroid with cuff
(1 piece); stethoscope (1 piece); straight scissors, 8 1/2 (1 pair); kidney
basin, 600-800 ml. (1 piece): soap container (1 piece); soap (1 piece);
suction valve, rubber (1 piece); plastic sheet, 3/4 yard (1 piece);
instrument tray, 4"x 81 (1 piece); flashlight, with 2 batteries (1 unit);
thermometer, rectal (1 piece); thermometer, oral (1 piece); sponge
(instrument) forceps (1 pair); sponge forceps, 8", round nose (1 pair):
forceps, Kelly's (1 pair); hand towels (2 pieces); baby spring-type scale,
5-25 kg gradation (1 piece); sterile gauze pack (1 pack); absorbent cotton,
6/pack (1 pack); surgical hand brush (1 piece); plastic apron (1 piece);
plastic sheeting (2 pieces); gloves (1 pair); plastic bags, sealable for
dirty linen (2 pieces); glass bottle, 500 ml. with screw top (5 pieces);
Terramycin ophthalmic ointment (1 tube); tape measure, plastic (1 piece);
suture, catgut, with needle, sterile package (4 pieces); anesthetic, local
(1 ampule); antiseptic solution (50 ml.); Vitamin K (1 amp.); medicine
glass, plastic (1 piece)
Users: Midwives
4. Obstetric Emergency Kit
Contents: Dextrose (1 liter IV bag); vacuset (1 unit); butterfly gauge No.
19 (1 unit); oxytocics (2 amp./l amp.); analgesic (1 amp.)
Users: Trained midwives, doctors, public health nurses at RHU, maternity
homes, lying-in clinics and district/provincial hospitals.
Selection Criteria for Facility UDgrading
Provinces
1.       Provinces were selected on the following basis:  (a) high level of
maternal deaths; (b) high maternal mortality ratio (more than 1.4 maternal
deaths/1,000 live births); poor provinces (President's priority list).
Provincial Hospitals
2.       The causes of maternal deaths are often directly related to the need
for interventions beyond primary health care solutions and facilities. The
first-referral level obstetric hospital is therefore needed to provide these
services. The essential obstetric functions at the first referral level are:
(a) to perform cesarean section; (b) to give an anesthetic; (c) to give blood
transfusion; (d) to carry out vacuum extraction (delivery technique); (e) to



- 51 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 8
carry out section curettage to incomplete/septic abortion/miscarriage; (f) to
insert intra-uterine devices; (g) to perform tubal ligation or vasectomy; and
(h) neonatal special care.
3.       These functions will require:
(a)  a provincial hospital with a fully operational obstetrics unit,
including labor room, delivery room, operating room, septic room,
isolation room, examination room, nursery for intensive neonatal care,
reception and triage area, recovery room, sterilizing room, adequate
water, sanitation, and electricity, and infrastructure; and
(b)  a laboratory capable of supporting blood bank and essential laboratory
tests for emergency obstetrics.
4.       The final selection of provincial hospitals will be based on the
following criteria: (a) facility to which the rural health midwives, and rural
health doctors can directly refer; (b) need for upgrading of obstetric
facilities measured against a standard list of needs for this facility in order
to provide quality, safe, and essential first-referral level facilities; (c)
physical location of the facility; and (d) overall condition of the facility.
District HosRitals
5.       The essential obstetric functions would be the same as for the
provincial hospitals, which would require:
(a)  a district hospital with a fully operational obstetrics unit,
including a labor room, delivery room, operating room, septic room,
isolation room, examining room, nursery for intensive neonatal care,
reception and triage area, recovery room, sterilizing room, and
adequate water, sanitation, and electricity; and
(b)  a laboratory capable of supporting blood bank and essential laboratory
tests for emergency obstetrics.
6.       Final selection of District Hospitals will be based on the following
criteria: (a) 25-bed capacity or greater; (b) facility to which the rural
health midwives and rural health doctors can directly refer, which is a maximum
of 2 hours via local transportation-distance from the majority of the rural
population; (c) need for upgrading of obstetric facilities measured against a
standard list of needs for this facility in order to provide quality, safe, and
essential first-referral level facilities; (d) physical location of the
facility; and (e) staff available to support 24-hour intensive nursing
observations and care as well as to provide 24-hour emergency surgical care.
The minimum staff allocation required is that of a 25-bed district hospital
with 4 doctors, 6 nurses, and 8 to 12 trained midwives.
Rural Health Units
7.       The RHU is the closest full-time staffed facility providing primary
health care within a community. These facilities have at least a rural health
midwife at all times on call. RHUs provide the following services: (a)



- 52 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 8
primary health care; (b) minor surgery, e.g., wound dressings, suturing; (c)
antenatal and postnatal care; (d) family planning; (e) management of common
infectious diseases; and (f) counseling.
8.       Issues that presently compromise the quality of services provided at
these facilities include: (a) lack of privacy for clients when requested; (b)
poor management of sterile conditions; (c) poorly maintained facilities and
equipment; (d) lack of essential equipment, drugs and supplies; (e) lack of
reliable and clean sources of water and power; and (f) poor sanitation
facilities for clients especially needed for women undergoing internal
examination and for antenatal clients.
9.       The project will upgrade the facility in order to increase its
capacity to provide acceptable, safe and quality women's health services. This
will include: (a) repair existing infrastructure such as roof, ceiling,
guttering, paintwork (internal and external); (b) connection to local
electricity source, if available; (c) water supply; (d) sanitation facilities;
(e) private physical examination and counselling space; (f) storage capacities
for essential drugs and equipment; and (g) observation area.
10.      Selection of rural health units will be based on the following
criteria: (a) enough allocated staff to be able to provide 24-hour on-call
service for obstetrical care by a rotated RHU staff person being within 15
minutes of the RHU and at a site that the community can locate readily; (b)
physical location of the facility; and (c) population served.
Barangay Health Stations
11.      The BHS is the health post where the rural health midwife may base her
work, and from where she may serve one to three barangays. The BHSs provide
the following services: (a) primary health care; (b) antenatal and postnatal
care; (c) family planning; (d) management of common infectious diseases; and
(e) counseling.
12.      Issues that presently compromise the quality of services provided at
these facilities include: (a) lack of privacy for clients when requested; (b)
poor management of sterile conditions; (c) poorly maintained facilities and
equipment; (d) lack of essential equipment, drugs and supplies; (e) lack of
reliable and clean sources of water and power; and (f) poor sanitation
facilities for clients especially needed for women undergoing internal
examination and for antenatal clients.
13.      The project will upgrade the facility in order to increase its
capacity to provide acceptable, safe and quality women's health services. This
will include: (a) repair existing infrastructure such as roof, ceiling,
guttering, paintwork (internal and external); (b) connection to local
electricity source, if available; (c) water supply; (d) sanitation facilities;
(e) private physical examination and counselling space; and (f) storage
capacities for essential drugs and equipment.
14.      The selection of barangay health stations will be based on the
following: (a) population served, generally BHSs that can serve 3 to 5
barangays; and (b) in close proximity to an RHU that is upgraded.



- 53 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 8
Lying-in Clinics
15.      The lying-in clinic will be a safe birthing center for rural areas.
This model is well tested in the urban settings, but has not been widely tried
in rural areas. The need for this facility is three fold: (a) women's
preference as a safe and clean option for a normal birth away from home but not
in a hospital; (b) for easier access of the midwife to obstetrical cases in
large population or geographically difficult areas; and (c) for women whom the
midwife is concerned cannot have a safe delivery in the home due to physical
conditions of the location.
16.      The lying-in clinic offers a bed in which to rest for a few hours
before returning home post-partum, and for post-partum counseling regarding
mother and child care, family planning and other aspects of women's health.
They also provide an opportunity for the midwife to supervise TBA deliveries
and in-service training. They will also serve as a transfer point for
stabilizing a woman prior to transfer if she is suffering from an obstetrical
complication.
17.      The RHUs that will be upgraded to provide lying-in services will be
selected based upon: (a) allocated staff able to provide services on a 24-hour
basis for women; (b) location in areas that are easily reached by the majority
of the population; (c) location to provinces and districts with facilities that
will be upgraded to first-referral level obstetrical service capacity.
18.      The upgrading will consist of:  (a) a three-bed labor/post-delivery
room; (b) a delivery room; (c) a toilet and bathroom; (d) piped water; and (e)
electricity. Equipment that is supplied to all the RHUs (for midwife staff)
will be located also in this facility.
Maternity Waiting Homes
19.        The project will test the effectiveness and acceptability of
maternity waiting homes in the rural parts of the Philippines; if successful,
the initiative can then be promoted as a community activity. Maternity waiting
homes are facilities in the style of local housing. They provide pregnant
women with a temporary residence where they can be observed prior to delivery.
Women who use the facility can be accompanied by a family member and can
prepare their own food, as in their own homes. While in residence, the
pregnant women can be more closely monitored by the first-referral level
obstetric facility and can be quickly admitted at the onset of labor, at the
first sign of any complications, or if an unanticipated complication arises.
20.      The facility addresses the following problems regarding early
management of obstetric complications: (a) that women who are identified as
high-risk pregnancies do not like to stay for long periods of time in a
hospital--away from family members, in unfamiliar surroundings and where they
believe sick people should be; and (b) that women who may need intervention
should be able to be quickly transferred to the hospital at the onset of labor
or a problem, in remote areas this is not possible. To be effective,
therefore, maternity waiting homes need to be either on the grounds of or very
close to the first-referral level facility.



- 54 -                          Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
List of Drugs. Reagents and Medical SuDplies
for Other Women's Health Services
Family Planning
Drugs                                            Quantities
1.  Pregnancy Test                                  76,300
2.  Lidocaine 2% 5ml/vial                          166,300
3.  Providone Iodine 10% solution                    2,700
4.  Midazolan 5 mg/apl                             305,000
5.  Pethidine 50 mg/ml 30a vial                     20,300
6.  Mefenamic Acid 500 mg/amp                    1,220,200
7.  Naloxone HCL 0.4 mg/amp                          2,100
8.  Chorhexidine Gluconate 4% solution,
4 liters                                         3,300
Supplies                                         Quantities
1.  Surgical Gloves                                 22,200
2.  Gauze Pads, 4"x 4" non-woven, 200
pcs/pack                                         1,800
3.  Syringes (10 ml)                               332,500
4.  Needles (G23)                                   27,500
5.  Plaster                                         27,500
6.  Surgical Blades
- #15                                           27,500
- #3                                           305,000
7.  Butterfly Needles (G21)                        305,000
8.  IV Set (Adult)                                 305,000
9.  Syringes (5 ml)                                305,000
10. D5LR                                           305,000
11. Plain Catgut                                   184,700
12. Chromic 20 Sterile                             305,000
ReRroductive Tract Infections/Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Drugs                                            Quantities
1.  Miconazole Nitrate, 200 mg.vag.              1,309,700
2.  Metronidazole, 500 mg.tab.                   4,939,200
3.  Doxycycline, 100 mg.tab.                     5,544,000
4.  Ceftriazone, 250 mg. vial                      630,000
5.  Bezathine Penicillin                         1,008,000



- 55 -                          Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
Reproductive Tract Infections/Sexually Transmitted Diseases (cont.)
Laboratory Supplies                              Quantities
1.  Cover Slip, box                                 10,500
2.  Slide, box                                      10,500
3.  Dropper                                            490
4.  Cx Swab                                      1,050,000
5.  Darkfield
- 50 ml. oil                                     2,100
- slide, box                                     2,100
- oil immersion lens                               500
- light source (client)                          2,100
6.  RPR
- tube                                         210,000
- high intensity lamp                               70
7.  FTA-ABS
- flourescence microscope assembly                  70
- pipette                                      210,000
- water bath                                        70
8.  Trichomon
- Medium                                        42,000
- Plating Swab                                     250
Cervical Cancer
Supplies and Reagents (Pap Smears)               Quantities
1.  Spray Fixative, 100 ml can                      12,500
2.  Cytocolor Kit                                    1,250
3.  Mounting Medium, 500 ml can                      1,250
4.  Slides, frosted end, 100/box                    12,500
5.  Cover slip
- 24 x 56 mm, 100/box                           12,500
- 24 x 40 mm, 100/box                           12,500
6.  Gloves, 1 dozen/box                              9,300



- 56 -                          Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Information. Education and Communication Sub-component
1.       The information, education and communication (IEC) sub-component of
the Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project ultimately aims for change in
the behavior of women in ways that will safeguard their health. The project
strategy is to launch a thematic campaign prior to campaigns directed to
specific target audiences. The thematic campaign would aim to raise the
general awareness of women about health issues, and lay the groundwork for
increasing knowledge and changing attitudes and behaviors.   Specific
campaigns will then be directed to four key audiences among the primary
targets, to promote the adoption of audience-specific behaviors, namely:
Target Audience                           Key Behaviors                   "
1.  Women in Union           Safe motherhood, proper nutrition for pregnant
and lactating women, prevention and treatment
of reproductive tract infections/sexually-
transmitted diseases
2.  Older Women              Screening for early detection of cervical
cancer
3.  Adolescents              Proper nutrition; delaying sexual activity;
negotiations skills relevant to social
interaction; if sexually active, behaviors
relevant to reproductive health concerns
4.  Special Audiences        For victims of domestic violence, seek
counselling and obtain support from health
workers or the community
2.       The campaigns, while directed to the primary targets (the women
themselves) are also expected to reach two other types of audiences:
secondary targets, i.e., groups or persons who exert an influence on health
behavior of women, such as their partners; and tertiary targets, i.e., those
in positions of authority who can influence the enactment of policies,
programs, laws and regulations to provide an enabling environment for the new
behavior to take root. Specific messages directed to the secondary and
tertiary audiences will also be developed, as needed.
3.       The project will develop and utilize the following communication
support materials: (a) mass media materials, including radio and television
plugs, and print ads with the same message concepts as the broadcast spots;
(b) print media, including mini-magazines and adult "komiks," which are the
most widely-read printed materials in the country, as well as the traditional
brochures, flyers and posters; and (c) other materials, including
training/teaching materials and videos for health care workers.



- 57 -                          Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
Sample IEC Messages
Maternal Care
* Seek early care when pregnant
* Why pre-natal and post-natal care are important and where to
receive such care
* Danger signs in pre- and post-natal period, and what to do
* Elements of a safe delivery
* Nutritional needs of adolescent girls and women
* Nutritional needs of pregnant and lactating women
* How a community can support a pregnant woman
* How a community can support an obstetrical emergency
* First aid for obstetrical emergencies
* How to negotiate for care
* Responsible parenthood
Family Planning
* Family planning is a health intervention
* Family planning promotes safe motherhood and child survival
* Range and characteristics of family planning methods
* Where to get family planning services
* What to do if problems arise
* How to negotiate with partners regarding contraceptive use
* Responsible sexual behavior
Reproductive Tract Infections
 What RTIs are and what causes them
* Why it is important to seek early care
* What are the complications of RTIs
X How to prevent RTIs
* How to manage RTIs
* Using medication for RTI management
* How to negotiate with partners
Cervical Cancer
* The signs of cervical cancer
* What a Pap smear is
* When and how often women should have Pap smears
* Where to go for Pap smears
Violence Against Women
* It is a problem: don't hide it, don't accept it
* Where to go for help
* Legal rights



- 58 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 9
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Description of Training for Health Care Workers
A. Traditional Birth Attendant (Hilot): Basic Course
1.       For 30 to 70.% of women in the country, a traditional birth attendant
(TBA) is the prime attendant at delivery. The aim of working with TBAs in the
Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project is to ensure that the TBAs do not
cause nor contribute towards maternal mortality nor morbidity through unsafe
practices, and refer early and appropriately to higher level services when
needed.
2.       There are approximately 40,000 TBAs in the country, approximately 500
per province and one to three per barangay. It has been estimated by the
Department of Health (DOH) that 75% of these have already been trained in safe
delivery practices by the DOH through, among others, a project funded by
UNICEF and the Australian International Development Assistance Bureau (AIDAB).
This training was matched with the supply of a safe delivery kit in 100% of
the cases. A 10% drop-out rate (due to death, migration, other causes) was
estimated.
3.       The project will train a total of about 13,750 TBAs.  The training
will be based upon the curriculum developed, tested, implemented and reviewed
by the UNICEF-AIDAB supported project. Trainee materials, curriculum and
materials prototypes are available and will be reviewed. This review will
mainly be to design an integration of family planning information (in order to
facilitate the role of the TBA as a motivator, counsellor and support person
for contraceptive users and potential users), and referral of women with other
women's health issues to the nearest Rural Health Unit or higher facility.
The TBAs will also be trained specifically regarding the use of the safe
delivery kit and its maintenance and care.
4.       The TBA training module will contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
- introduction to family planning methods
- interpersonal communication skills and counselling
- the need for and sources of pre- and post-natal care
- safe delivery practices (e.g., hand washing, clean area for delivery,
no internal examinations, not to push down on the uterus, other
aspects of infection control)
- early danger signs during antepartum period and where to refer
- early danger signs during labor and where to refer
- danger signs during the postpartum period and where to refer
- obstetrical first aid (e.g., elevating a woman's legs, keeping an
eclamptic woman quiet and restful)
- referral practices
- how to support women using family planning and iron supplementation
- use of the home-based mothers record



- 59 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
5.       At present this training is undertaken by the rural health midwife
(RHM). In order to address the need to improve the quality of the training,
the RHM and the Rural Health Doctor will be trained (see below) in their own
courses on how to train and support TBAs. This training will be randomly
checked for quality by provincial and regional trainers and/or training
contractees. The training will take 2 days at the Rural Health Unit level to
complete.
B. Barangay Health Worker
6.       There are about 300,000 barangay health workers (BHWs) in the
country, approximately 4,000 per province or 1 BHW per 20 families (although
some reports indicate that only 50,000 BHWs are active). It has been
estimated through the UNFPA and Family Planning Services of the DOH that 20%
of these have already been trained in family planning support and counselling;
however none have received training in safe motherhood or women's health.
7.       Under the project, all BHWs will be trained.  The training will be
based upon a curriculum developed, tested, implemented and reviewed by the
DOH. It will be designed to be broadcast over provincial radio, in local
dialects, in a three-month cycle of short (half-hour) lessons, that may be
accompanied by a low literacy sheet to follow during the program. It may also
feature a "write-in" spot where BHWs have the opportunity to seek advice from
a regional or national health officer about specific problems they are having
in the implementation of their work. BHWs will be informed about the program
through the RHMs, rural health doctors and public health nurses.
8.       Negotiations will be conducted with the Philippine Information
Service and the Provincial Radio and Rural Announcers Federation to gain free
or reduced air time. Experience with use of radio for BHW training was
successfully tested in one province about 15 years ago, and has been used by
other sectors. Distance learning on such a large scale will be an innovation
in the country, but it is hoped that it will provide a cost-effective means of
reaching a volunteer labor force with a very high turnover. It will also
inform the community who may listen to the program to understand what they can
expect from the program (thereby acting as a community level supervision of
their worker) and educate them about their health and health behaviors.
9.       The content will include, at a minimum:
- what and where the services for a pregnant woman are
- what family planning is and where services are
- how the community can support a pregnant woman and the BHW role
- how to talk to and counsel your clients
- what reproductive health is, and common problems for both women
and men
- what reproductive tract infections (RTIs) and sexually-transmitted
diseases (STDs) are
- what the danger signs of pregnancy are
- what the danger signs of cancer afflicting women are
- the importance of breastfeeding
- what to advise women who are victims of violence



- 60 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
C. Rural Health Midwives
10.      There are approximately 13,500 RHMs in the country or approximately
140 per province (10,914 are on the local government unit (LGU) payroll as a
result of devolution, with the rest due for absorption by the LGUs in 1995).
It has been estimated that, through existing program efforts of the DOH
supported by UNICEF, AIDAB, UNFPA and USAID, 100.% of these will have been
trained in a Basic/Comprehensive course in family planning provision (for
pills, condoms and intrauterine devices) as well as in counselling and
interpersonal skills. However none have received training in injectable
contraceptives (except for 10 provinces in 1994), essential obstetrics care or
obstetrical first aid for emergency cases, nor, except for some minimal
content in the Basic/Comprehensive course, on reproductive tract infections or
cancers afflicting women. It has been estimated that there is a 10% drop-out
rate among this cadre; however, the aforementioned donors will provide the
Basic/Comprehensive course to any new midwives during the period 1994-99.
11.      The project will train a total of about 14,850 RHMs (including new
recruits). The training will be based upon a curriculum developed, tested,
implemented and reviewed by the DOH, modularized and designed to be taught in
a competency-based fashion, with the major emphasis being on skills training.
Training models as well as clients will be utilized in this training. In
addition to the traditional forms of didactic learning, various self-directed
learning packages using interactive teaching methods appropriate to the
setting (e.g., tapes, slides, videos) will be utilized. In addition,
videotaping trainee practices will be explored for feedback and review. The
use of these innovative teaching methods will lay the groundwork for the RHMs
being involved in distance learning and continuing education activities also
to be developed and implemented under the project (Section P below).
12.      The modules will be adaptations of existing training materials or
available modules. The aim of the training would be to teach women's health
as an integrated package, and thereby support and encourage a more holistic
and appropriate approach to the provision of services. In the provinces where
family planning training has already been provided, a special refresher module
will be provided.
13.      The course content will include, at a minimum, the following:
(a) Basic clinical examination skills (refresher training for most)
- reproductive history taking
- general physical examinations (especially pulse, blood pressure,
oedema)
- pelvic examination including determination of pelvic size
(for obstetrical assessment)
- pelvic anatomy (location of the tubes, uterine size and shape and
surface, condition of the fornices, ovarian size and condition,
condition of the abdominal cavity
- vaginal examination (including presence of any infection,
lacerations, fistula, other pathology)
- cervical visualization (color, condition, presence of any
pathology)
- proper method of insertion of specula



- 61 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
- specula examination; external genitalia examination, including
presence of any pathology
- ecto- and endo-cervical smears for cultures, slides and Pap smears
- universal precautions (sterile techniques, infection control,
worker safety
(b) Interpersonal skills
-counselling: family planning; maternal care; pre- and post-testing
for RTIs/STDs; compliance with treatment regimes; emergency
situations; domestic difficulties; breastfeeding, aspects of
antenatal and post-natal services
-information provision: face-to-face; group; audience specific;
use of visual and print aids
-referral
-specific counselling on indications and contraindications regarding
different family planning methods, side effects and health
benefits, assisting a woman/couple in method selection
(c)  Clinical skills
-inserting and removing an IUD (refresher skill)
-taking an endo- and ecto-cervical smear
-giving injectable contraceptives
-giving tetanus toxoid
-oral and parenteral dispensing of oxytocic drugs after delivery of
the placenta
-suturing perineal lacerations to control bleeding
-setting up, inserting and managing the giving of intravenous fluids
during obstetrical emergencies (including fluid balance)
-management of a normal delivery including use of a partogram,
assessment of progress through fetal health sounds, cervical
dilatation, monitoring of contractions
-provision of antenatal care (refresher skill)
-use of RTI algorithms, including ability to undertake a wet mount
slide microscopic examination, the KOH Whiff test, and pH test for
RTIs
-appropriate prescribing practices including rational use of drugs
(d)  Management skills
-how to be a TBA supervisor, including scheduling of time, use of a
supervisory checklist, responses to findings (refresher skill)
-how to record information, including filling in forms, how to use
the data to follow trends and quality of services
-how to manage stocks and supplies, including inventory, storage,
projections, ordering
-how to manage the referral system
-how to manage one's own supervision
-infection control, including cleaning, sterilization, contingency
measures, e.g., making reuse of gloves a safe practice in shortage
conditions (refresher skills)
-how to mobilize the community (refresher skill)
-how to schedule workload and time
-how to delegate
-how to identify and meet one's needs for assistance



- 62 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
(e)  Training skills
- how to provide "updates" to community level workers (refresher
skill)
- how to train TBAs
14.      The RHM course will be 21 days in duration, with 75% direct contact
time and 25% guided self-directed learning. In addition to structuring the
course on targeted competency levels, it will also include trainer assessment
of on-the-job competency by setting tasks for the trainee to follow after the
direct course, and following the provider into the field. The trainer will be
the provincial-level health official who will be trained as a master trainer
(Section M below) along with at a project-contracted midwifery trainer.
D. Rural Health Doctors
15.      Rural health doctors (RHDs) work in Rural Health Units.  They are
usually recent graduates, and stay only an average of three to five years.
There are over 2,000 RHDs in the country, or approximately 14 to 15 per
province. It has been estimated by the DOH that 75% of RHDs have already been
trained in family planning provision (for pills, condoms and intrauterine
devices) and in counselling and interpersonal skills. However none of them
have received training in injectable contraceptives, essential obstetrics care
and first aid for emergency obstetric cases, reproductive tract infections or
cancers afflicting women.
16.      The training of this cadre will basically be the same as that of the
RHM.  However, because of previous experience where joint training has caused
problems, the RHDs and RHMs will be trained separately.
E. Public Health Nurses
17.      There are approximately 11,000 public health nurses (PHNs), or
approximately two to three in each Rural Health Units. This cadre consists of
fully-trained nurses with midwifery training who are permanently stationed at
the Rural Health Unit. They provide clinical services and supervise the RHMs.
Most of them have been trained in family planing and interpersonal
communication skills.
18.      The training for PHNs will be basically the same as for the RHDs and
RHMs, but will be trained separately from them.
F. First-Referral Level Doctors
19.      The training for first-referral level doctors will be a six-month
residential course in obstetrics and gynecology (ObGyn). The training will be
conducted at fifteen Regional Medical Centers of the DOH which have received
accreditation from the Philippines Obstetrics and Gynecological Society (POGS)
and the DOH to train in post-graduate obstetrics for specialist training and
rural doctors. There will be one trainee per six months per facility.
Preceptors (clinical tutors) shall be assigned at each of these facilities
specifically for this program; this is likely to be the Senior Resident at
each of these facilities. The preceptors will be attend annual training and



- 63 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 9
feedback workshops in Manila to review progress, materials and evaluations of
the program.
20.      The existing six-month training program will be strengthened by POGS,
the DOH and technical adviser to be provided under the project. This
strengthening shall result in:
- definition of competencies and desired performance levels
- curriculum and materials for trainees and trainers
- training programs and manuals
- trainee logbook and assessment materials
- preceptor orientation materials
- locum scheme (where the doctors in training will be covered for the
six-month absence by a DOH-provided locum with ObGyn training)
21.      The skills required included the following:
(a)  Surgical Skills:
- repair of high vaginal and cervical tears
- laparotomy
- repair and surgical treatment of uterine rupture
- ectopic pregnancy
- placental removal (retained placenta)
- management of incomplete and septic abortions
- surgical treatment of sepsis
(b)  Medical skills
- augmentation of labor
- intravenous total dose of iron
- medical treatment of sepsis
- treatment of shock
- management of severe hypertension and eclampsia
- blood transfusion
- vacuum extraction (Ventouse extraction)
- low cavity forceps
- fluid balance management
- management of medical problems during pregnancy
(c)  Delivery skills
- normal delivery
- management of breech and other abnormal presentations
- use of the partograph
- physical assessment of the progress of labor
- antenatal and postnatal checkups
(d)  Other clinical skills
- management of reproductive tract infections (simple and
complicated)
- management of contraindications and side effects of family
planning use
- provision of family planning, including all temporary methods and
bilateral tubal ligation (minilaparotomy technique)
- counselling and interpersonal communication skills



- 64 -
Annex 6
Page 7 of 9
- cryotherapy management of dysplastic changes on the cervix
- local and regional anaesthesia for obstetrics
- obstetrical anaesthesia and management of a nurse technician
(e) Management skills
- Infection control
- Training of obstetric surgical team
- conduct of maternal mortality reviews and other quality assurance
activities
- supervision of physical environment of the ObGyn ward
- team work
G. Obstetrical Nursing Team at First-Referral level Hospital:
22.      The training for the obstetrical nursing team will be two days in
duration and held in the hospital where the nurses work. It will be provided
by the resident doctor upon his/her return from the six-month ObGyn training.
The resident doctor will have received training in how to train these staff
and the materials with which to do so.
23.      The content of this refresher training will include, at a minimum,
the following:
- nursing of the eclamptic/severely pre-eclamptic patient
- fluid balance
- post-operative management of patients
- surgical scrubbing and infection control
- physical environmental management
- obstetrical first aid
H. SupDort staff of the ObGvn Ward
24.      The support staff of the ObGyn ward (orderlies, reception and triage
staff) will be provided an orientation of three hours duration at the hospital
in which they work. It will be conducted by the resident Doctor upon his/her
return from the six-month training course in ObGyn. Its content will include
obstetrical first aid (how to transport a woman with an obstetric emergency),
how to counsel the woman and her family, and where to direct them.
I. First-Referral Level Laboratory Staff
25.      These staff will be trained at the Regional Training Centers and
Regional Medical Centers on RTIs, management of a blood bank, cervical ecto-
and endo-cervical smears, and good laboratory practices to support the
activities of the maternal care, RTI and cervical cancer activities of the
project. This training will be conducted by pathologists at the regional
level. Test slide kits will be available for the training. It will be a
residential course of six days duration.
J. Cytotechnicans
26.      Training for cytotechnicians will be six days in duration,
specifically on the management of a cytology lab for both Pap smears and



- 65 -
Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
biopsy (cervical) samples. Additionally, training on good laboratory practice
will be included. This training will be conducted by the pathologists at the
regional level. Test slide kits will be available for the training. It will
be a residential course of Eix days duration.
K. Pathologists
27.      Training will be provided to pathologists at each of the Regional
Medical Centers as well as from up to 10 provincial hospitals that will be
part of the RTI and cervical cancer expansion activities of project. The
training shall be conducted in Manila for six days. The training shall be
conducted by POGS and technical adviser provided under the project. It will
include refresher training in cervical pathology and RTIs as well as blood
bank management, quality assurance activities for laboratories, and good
laboratory practices. They will also receive instruction on training of the
cytotechnicans and the laboratory technicians at the regional level.
L. Obstetrician/Gvnecologists
28.      Training will be provided to ObGyn doctors at each of the regional
medical centers as well as from up to 10 provincial hospitals that will be
part of the RTI and cervical cancer expansion activities of the project. The
training shall be conducted in Manila for six, and shall be conducted by POGS
and technical adviser provided under the project. It will include refresher
training in cervical pathology and RTIs, and training in quality assurance
activities, including mortality reviews and observational studies.
M. Preceptors
29.      Preceptor training will be held in Manila for two days.  Two senior
resident staff from each of the 15 accredited Regional Medical Centers will
receive instruction specific to teaching the six-month resident training
program in ObGyn. As these staff are already master trainers, they will
basically be oriented to the strengthened approach of the project. This
training shall be conducted by POGS and a technical adviser to be provided
under the project.
N. Provincial-Level Trainers
30.      Members of the Provincial Training Task Force will be trained as
trainers by the national and regional training teams, and by technical
advisers and training contractees. This training shall be a two-weeks
residential course at the regional level. Training will be conducted in the
principles of integrated training, competency-based training, adult learning,
innovative training methodologies and self-directed learning skills.
Materials will be provided for them based upon these principles and
specifically for the conduct of the integrated women's health training for
rural health unit staff. There shall be competencies (both end-of-training
and on-the-job) defined for this training.
31.      In addition to the actual face-to-face training for the two weeks,
the trainers shall supervise the first round of training by these provincial
trainers, providing guidance and on-the-job in-service training.



- 66 -
Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
32.      The training shall be skills-based, and utilize the techniques which
the trainers should, in turn, use for their training. Video cameras will be
used in this training to playback, as a training technique, their practice
training sessions as well as their counselling sessions. Additionally, they
will be taught video camera techniques (turning the camera on and off) to
enable them to use a tripod mounted camera for interpersonal communication
skills training of the rural health unit staff.
0. National and Regional Master Trainers
33.      National and regional master trainers will be provided a 30-day
training course in Manila by training advisers to be provided under the
project. The course shall provide refresher training on instructional design,
teaching methods, teaching equipment use and maintenance, adult learning,
self-directed learning, training of trainers. Additionally, it shall
introduce the master trainers to the,integrated training and competency-based
training.
34.      The training shall be skills-based, and utilize the techniques which
the trainers, in turn, should use for their training. Video cameras will be
used in this training to playback, as a training technique, their practice
training sessions as well as their counselling sessions.
P. Distance Education
35.      Distance education will be provided for the following:
- BHWs via radio, with back-up support by the RHM and limited
print materials
- rural health unit staff (midwives, doctors, nurses) via print media
(posted every two months)



- 67 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 6
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Public Financing of Health in the Post-Devolution Era
1.       With the completion of the physical transfers of personnel, assets,
functions and resources for the delivery of public health services from the
national government to local governments in accordance with the 1991 Local
Government Code, new arrangements for the financing of the public health
system are necessary. In the immediate post-devolution era, a period of
transition is to be expected in which, for health and economic reasons,
a continued and important role for national government financing will be
required to support the operation and development of the devolved public
health system.
The 1994 DOH Budget from a Devolution Perspective
2.       From the standpoint of the central and local dichotomy inherent in
thinking about devolution, the 1994 budget of the Department of Health (DOH)
amounting to P17.3 billion consists of three types of expenditures:
(a) About P1.28 billion is allocated to shared national functions, such
as general administration at the central and regional levels, health
policy development, standards and regulations, health information,
health human resources development and essential national health
research. The specific local impact of these activities are not
easily distinguishable and thus cannot be considered as targeted
subsidies to localities.
(b) About P2.8 billion is allocated to inputs and activities whose
benefits accrue to specific localities via spending for national
health programs and projects. This includes the immunization,
diarrhea, acute respiratory infections, tuberculosis, malaria,
rabies, primary health care, environmental health and community
health programs as well as general purpose drugs and medicines.
These are properly considered as targeted subsidies to local
governments. Considerable grant resources flowing outside the DOH
budget also finance activities whose benefits accrue to specific
localities.
(c) About P3.3 billion is allocated to inputs and activities whose
benefits also accrue to specific localities through the operation of
retained national health facilities and through direct financial
assistance of devolved health facilities.
Local Government Budgets Based on 1993 Atprovriations
3.       Based on the 1993 budget appropriations, the following can be said
about local government financing of health functions:



- 68 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 6
(a) In accordance with the Local Government Code, provinces have
appropriated largely for hospitals, municipalities for rural health
centers and barangay health stations, and cities for a mixture or
hospitals and health centers.
(b) For provinces and municipalities, the cost of devolved health
functions as they had been set before devolution by the DOH was the
main determinant of their respective allocations. For these local
government units (LGUs), the pre-devolution costs were such that they
could not easily ignore them. For cities and barangays, which are not
saddled by large transferred costs of devolved health services, their
allocations for health can be presumed to be in closer accord with
local preferences.
(c) For provinces and municipalities, the costs of health services
represent a significant portion of their total revenues. For all
provinces, the total costs transferred from DOH represent about 29%
of their total 1993 share of the Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA).
For municipalities, the cost of devolved health functions amount to
13% of their total IRA share. This compares with 1.3% for cities,
and 0% for barangays.
(d)  For provinces and municipalities, their 1993 (and probably 1994)
spending for health are expected to accommodate and feature gradual
adjustments, downwards or upwards, from their pre-devolution levels
towards levels more in accord with local preferences and
capabilities. For barangays and cities, the adjustment process to
fit health spending to local preferences is likely to move faster.
Role of Central Financing Under Devolution
4.       Without any policy intervention, the prospect is that LGUs would
finance their newly-accepted health functions in accordance with their local
health needs, resources (their own revenues and their share in IRA) and the
stock of health service capabilities transferred to them; meanwhile, the
national government would finance only retained national functions. However,
a policy integrating central with local spending can be a better alternative
to separate and purely autonomous central and local public spending. There
are four main categories of reasons why central spending for some local
functions in some localities should be undertaken on efficiency and equity
grounds:
(a) Devolution as specified contains inherent inequalities. First, the
pattern of local subsidies represented by retained national health
facilities allow certain localities to benefit from national spending
more than others.-/ Second, the pattern of local subsidies
represented by the distribution of devolved assets and capabilities
For example, the province of Camarines Sur obtains the benefit of national
government spending for the regional hospital located in Naga City, which
is not as easily utilizable by the people of other provinces in the region.



- 69 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 6
allow certain localities to benefit more than others.2/ Central
spending for public health programs can help correct the inequities
in the distribution of devolved facilities and in the flow of
national subsidies for retained facilities.
(b) Devolution as specified poses certain technical constraints to more
efficient allocation and utilization of resources for health. First,
the structural break between provinces which are responsible for
financing hospitals (hence curative care) and the component
municipalities which are responsible for financing community health
services (hence preventive and promotive care) poses a barrier to
rational province-wide resource allocation and utilization.
Municipalities may under-provide for prevention, and provinces may
end up spending more and more for treatment and cure. Municipalities
may also end up spending more for health care needs if provinces
under-provide for medical care. Provinces or municipalities may
free-ride on each other or may duplicate their efforts. The local
allocation of central spending for public health programs would allow
provinces and municipalities to alleviate this structural break in
area-wide health operations.
Second, local preferences in health program priorities may not be in
accord with national priorities. Certain health programs have large
inter-jurisdictional externalities which may not be sufficiently
internalized in local government decision-making. / Localities may
over-provide for lumpy expenditures like medical centers more
properly utilized by larger populations than those of the investing
localities. Other localities may free-ride by not spending on
certain services and encouraging their population to utilize other
localities' provisions. Program allocation of central government
spending for localities can help assure adequacy for total program
spending (national, provincial and municipal).
(c) The third reason for national financing of some localities' health
functions involves transitional difficulties. Localities may not yet
have sufficient information to make the best decisions about health.
Central government financing of public health programs can assist in
improving the information markets in health via technical assistance
and training where appropriate.
Another transitional difficulty involves the progressive absorption
of the devolved personnel and facilities into the local government
system. Aside from the unrest that can be caused by a cutback or
2/ For example, provinces like Pangasinan and Iloilo obtain benefits from
hospitals transferred to them which may not be available to provinces that
did not inherit such infrastructure.
For example, high immunization levels in one town may not sufficiently
protect it from epidemics if immunization levels in a neighboring town
are low.



- 70 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 6
redeployment of the stock of resources transferred from the national
government, there is also the need to avoid permanent adverse effects
of possible mistakes in actions. Personnel may leave and it may be
difficult to recruit replacements. Facilities may run down and it
may be difficult to rebuild them. Central government financing can
cushion the adjustment process in fitting the devolved infrastructure
with the local needs and financing capabilities.
(d) The devolved health system could increase ability-to-pay disparities
among localities. The pattern of national revenue sharing as well as
the pattern of local tax base potentials are not in accord with the
pattern of health needs. Some of the areas in greatest need for
health services may be those areas with the least capacity to finance
them. Central government financing for public health programs can be
used for partially alleviating these disparities.
The sizes of local populations as well as the local burdens of health
care for the poor vary considerably among LGUs. The large minimum
fixed requirements of public health care provisions will tend to
burden the smaller localities. In addition, the public burden of
care for the poor will tend to be greater on those localities with a
larger proportion of poor households in their population. Small
provinces with large poor populations would have greater
difficulties. Central government financing of local health functions
can be used to partially alleviate these types of disparities.
Policies for Health Project Financing
5.       In the context of implementing the proposed Public Investment Plan of
the DOH, the following principles would guide the financing of health
projects:
(a) The projects to be included in the investment pipeline would be
addressed to the priority areas for public health intervention.
(b) The total cost of the projects would be within the medium-term and
annual investment ceilings of the DOH in accordance with the overall
fiscal program of the government.
(c) The design, allocation and implementation of the projects shall be in
the context of strengthening the operation of the devolved health
system and encouraging local autonomy and self-reliance in achieving
national health goals.
(d) The features of the financing provided to health projects should
contribute to improving the efficiency and equity of the health
sector.
6.       Consistent with the above principles, the following policies would
apply:



- 71 -
Annex 7
Page 5 of 6
(a) Having determined the need for the proposed investment project, the
policy objective of the DOH relative to project financing is to
obtain an adequate level of investments in its priority areas. The
overall size of the projects in terms of physical quantities as well
as total costs will be driven by national health goals and targets.
Investment priorities would be articulated within the overall budget
ceiling of the DOH. While the DOH will endeavor to obtain the least-
cost financing of its proposed investments, its primary goal would be
to obtain an adequate level of investment. The DOH would be tasked
with the decision regarding project size and timing, while the
Department of Finance and the National Economic Development Authority
would decide on the sources of the financing (revenues, grants or
loans) given overall fiscal objectives, opportunities and
constraints.
(b) The national public investment projects in health will typically
involve expenditures for the DOH-retained functions as well as
expenditures for devolved functions. Investments in devolved
functions are necessary because (i) these functions involve basic
health services which are currently underfunded, leaving substantial
unmet needs, (ii) these functions are not efficiently handled by
autonomous financing of local governments nor by insurance, direct
payments of households and employers, (iii) these functions have
large externalities and spillovers which cross local jurisdictions,
(iv) additional spending by the central government could induce more
rational spending by LGUs, and (v) fulfilling these functions would
have a large future impact in improving the overall quality of human
resources, reducing future costs of care, and alleviating poverty and
its effects.
(c) The national public investments on some devolved health functions in
some localities would be provided to these localities on a grant
basis, regardless of the nature of their financing sources. If the
national government has decided to undertake a public investment
project by obtaining financing, it should not compromise the
utilization of these resources by the target localities by having
them bear the burden of the financing costs. Structuring the
central-local financing terms to mirror the source of financing would
effectively alter the price to the localities of certain functions
financed under less than grant terms. The probability that
localities would opt out of these projects or part of the projects
would increase, thereby compromising the technical integrity of the
project investment.
(d) However, while public investment funds for health would be provided
on a grant basis, they would be provided on the condition that LGUs
bear part of the cost of the investments. The investment resources
available to some localities for some functions on a grant basis
would be differentially "priced" in terms of the required cost shares
for these investments. The extent of cost sharing would be
determined in order to cover the requirements for (i) providing
Philippine government counterparts in project financing, (ii)



- 72 -
Annex 7
Page 6 of 6
undertaking institutional reforms necessary for project
implementation, (iii) sustaining project recurrent costs beyond the
project life, and (iv) achieving local fiscal reform in LGU financing
of health services.
(e) In general, the basis for allocating project resources would be on
need, while the basis for required cost shares would be ability and
willingness to pay.
(f) In general, local governments will absorb the government's cost share
for non-recurrent costs, except in localities that are destitute, in
which case the DOH could absorb the share of these costs.
(g) Since a large proportion of public investment projects in health are
in the category of incremental recurrent costs, the national
government would bear the burden of some recurrent costs. This would
include, for example, the cost of vaccines and malaria supplies (for
reasons of externalities), introduction of new drugs as part of a new
and improved treatment protocol (for reasons of technology
promotion). Localities would bear the burden of recurrent costs in
their devolved functions, including personnel, travel, per diems and
basic supplies. For certain other recurrent costs, the national
government would initially bear the burden that shall eventually be
borne out by local governments or households. This would include,
among others, contraceptives (due to low contraceptive prevalence),
drugs for tuberculosis (due to high levels of prevalence and
transmission,as well as their high cost), micronutrient supplements
(as an initial emergency measure, given the high levels of
deficiencies).



Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Decision Support Models for Central-Local Financing
of Public Investments in Health: ConceRtual Framework and ApDlication
Introduction
1.       In financing public investments under devolution, decisions have to
be made about:
(a) how to allocate total project investments among the various
localities;
(b) how much of the project investment costs will be borne by the
locality and by the national government; and
(c) how investments will be phased over the project period.
2.       To assist the national and local governments in reaching agreement on
the above questions, three decision support models are proposed:
(a) resource allocation model, which contains the criteria, indicators
and formula for distributing total project investments among
localities;
(b) cost sharing model, which contains the criteria, indicators and
formulas for setting the total target share of project investment
costs to be borne by local governments; and
(c) Rroject phasing model, which contains the criteria, indicators and
formulas for setting annual project expenditures and corresponding
cost shares of local governments in order to achieve the agreed upon
resource allocation and cost share totals determined by the first two
models.
3.       The purpose of the models is to provide central and local governments
with technical guidelines for negotiating resource allocation, cost sharing
and project phasing agreements whose overall outcomes would:
(a) contribute to incremental improvements in the equity and efficiency
of the devolved public health system;
(b) create the necessary financing conditions for successfully
implementing national health projects; and
(c) encourage the reconciliation of national and local goals and
constraints.



- 74 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
Description of the Models
Resource Allocation Model
4.       In general, resource allocation would be based on the basis of need.
Project resources would first be allocated between inputs for national
functions and inputs for devolved local functions. The total inputs for
devolved local functions would be subject to the resource allocation model.
Project resources to be distributed to localities would then be divided into
those items whose local distribution can and cannot be determined by design,
i.e., where specific indicators of need (prevalence of the disease, lack of
facilities, severity of the problem, etc.) are available and can be used to
allocate resources. Those items not pre-determined by design would be subject
to a resource allocation index.
5.       The resource allocation index for determining the recommended claim
of each locality on project inputs yet to be distributed incorporates measures
and indicators of need according to the following principles:
(a) Localities with the poorest health or demographic status (as
indicated by such measures as infant mortality, maternal mortality
and contraceptive prevalence rates) should, in general, receive more
of the project investments intended to address these problems.
(b) The share of the national health or demographic problem contributed
by each locality (as indicated by such measures as the proportion of
national infant or maternal mortality or birth rates accounted for by
the locality) would be considered. In some cases, the localities
with the greatest contribution to the problem should get the most
resources. In others, the localities with the greatest success in
solving the problem should get most of the resources. Whether the
allocation should finance the solution of failures or reward the
demonstration of success would be determined based on the policy
goals, behavioral assumptions, determinants of performance and the
nature of the investments.
6.       The totality of resource allocation decisions would be the sum of the
allocations by design and those obtained by utilizing the resource allocation
index. The resulting allocations by locality may be modified in two ways:
(a) The Department of Health (DOH) may want to set the level of
incremental project investments by locality within a framework of
rationalizing all central resources benefitting localities. The
incremental project resources allocated could be adjusted in order to
equalize the totals of all localities.
(b) On the basis of specific program needs, project resources could be
allocated to fill the gaps in program requirements by locality. The
resources provided by the government and other donors for the program
would be estimated and the project resources could be allocated to
fill the gaps for meeting program goals.



-75 -
Anneyx 8
Page 3 of 6
Cost Sharing Model
7.       On the assumption that the totality of resource allocation decisions
are satisfactory to national and local governments according to their policy,
program and project goals, the share of the local government in project costs
would be negotiated as a separate matter. While resource allocation would be
based on need, cost shares would be based on ability and willingness to pay
for meeting this need.
8.       Since the project resources are being provided to localities on a
grant basis, the cost shares are the localities' expenditure counterparts in
the project. The specific shares of specific localities would be estimated on
the basis of a cost-sharing index, which would incorporate the following
general principles:
(a) Localities that are richer should bear a larger share of the project
costs than those which are poorer.
(b)  Local government units (LGUs) that spend less for health relative to
their total revenues should bear a larger share of the costs than
those with a higher poverty burden.
(c) Localities with a lower absolute poverty burden (lower share of the
national population that is poor) should bear a larger share of the
costs than those with a high poverty burden.
(d) LGUs with a lower fiscal burden for health (i.e., the costs of
devolved health functions as a percentage of revenues) should bear a
larger share of the costs than those with a higher fiscal burden.
(e) LGUs receiving higher per capita DOH subsidies for health should bear
a larger share of the costs than those receiving lower per capita
subsidies.
9.       The cost shares, as determined by the index, would be applied to the
resources allocated to each locality, and the total cost shares generated
would be summed up. Individual cost shares may have to be modified according
to demands of the following considerations when applied to the resulting
total:
(a) Higher cost shares may need to be generated if total cost shares are
short of project requirements.
(b) Higher cost shares. may need to be generated if the demands of
adequate local project implementation cannot be directly financed by
project resources.
Project Phasing Model
10.      Project resources will be expended on an annual basis, and project
resources will flow through multiple channels: the DOH budget for the loan
proceeds and the national government counterparts, direct flows of the grants,
and LGU budgets for the local cost shares. Total resource allocations per
locality and the corresponding local cost shares thus need to be translated



- 76 -                           Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
into a scheme for progressively capturing the project life targets in the
annual budgets of the DOH and the LGUs.
11.      The goal of the project phasing scheme is to ensure that, by the end
of the project, each locality would have received its corresponding project
resources and have provided its corresponding cost shares.
Proposed Resource Allocation and Cost Sharing Indicesl/
12.      Table 1 on the following page describes the inputs, outputs,
constraints and basic computation procedures of the three decision support
models for resource allocation, cost sharing and project phasing. As noted
earlier and in the table, the required inputs for the first two models include
indices for resource allocation and cost sharing. Such indices have been
developed for the application of the models to the Women's Health and Safe
Motherhood Project.
Resource Allocation Index
13.      The resource allocation index is intended as an overall measure of
women's health status and of health services delivery. Two alternative
indices have been developed. The first includes the following indicators:
total population, population density, maternal mortality rate, infant
mortality rate and contraceptive prevalence rate for modern methods. The
second index uses a poverty measure as a substitute for maternal and infant
mortality, due to concerns raised about the reliability of these mortality
data at the provincial level; this poverty measure is the percentage of the
population living below the subsistence level.
14.      While the specific indicators and the weights assigned to each are
yet to be agreed upon, the preliminary structure of the indices, the proposed
weights and the underlying assumptions are summarized in Table 2 on the next
following page.
Cost Sharing Index
15.      The cost sharing index is intended as a measure of provinces' ability
to pay and of inter-province equity. The proposed index includes the
following indicators: per capita income, percentage of revenues spent for
health, the percentage of the population living below the subsistence level,
the provinces' fiscal burden for health, and per capita government subsidy for
health. The fiscal burden for health defined as the ratio between the total
DOH costs for devolved functions and the increase of the Internal Revenue
Allotment between 1992 and 1993 (which was supposed to cover the costs for
devolved functions).                          0
16.      While the specific indicators and the weights assigned to each are
yet to be agreed upon, the preliminary structure of the index, the proposed
weights and the underlying assumptions are summarized in Table 3 on the next
following page.
/ Details are provided in M. Enache, Resource Allocation and Cost-Sharing
in the Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project Using A Decision Support
Software, June/July 1994.



Table 1. RESOURCE ALLOCATION, COST SHARING AND PROJECT PHASING MODELS: INPUTS, OUTPUTS, CONSTRAINTS AND COMPUTATION
|odel         Inputs                          Outputs                   Constraints                    Computation
Resource      Total resources (costs) to    Resources to be             Measures of spread and/or   The resource allocation index is computed
Allocation   be allocated for functions       allocated to each         restrictions:                 as the standardized value of the composite
and cost categories which       individual LGU                                          of the weighted criteria (variables).
have not been determined by                               - minimum spending level
design                                                       (per capita or total)      The resources allocated to each individual
LGU are computed by using linear
Resource Allocation Index                                 - maximum spending level    transformations of the index according to
criteria (variables)                                        (per capita or total)       resource allocation scenarios.
Direction of each                                         - number of bottom-           Scenarios are user-defined and based on
variable's contribution in                                  ranked LtGUs to be          variations on policy inputs or constraints
the index                                                   subsidized                  imposed to the model.   Iterative computer
algorithms would be used where adjustments
Level of importance                                                                     are necessary.
attributed to each variable
(weights)
Cost          Total resources allocated       Individual LGU shares   Measures of spread and/or   The cost sharing index is computed as the
Sharing       to each individual LGU          of the allocated          restrictions:                 standardized value of the composite of the
resources                                               weighted criteria (variables).
Cost Sharing Index criteria                               - minimum and maximum
(variables)                                                 cost shares proposed        The cost shares of each individual LGU are
computed by using linear transformations of
Direction of each                                         - minimum and average         the index according to the cost sharing
variable's contribution in                                  cost shares proposed        scenarios.
the index
- maximum and average        Scenarios are user-defined and based on
Level of importance                                         cost shares proposed        variations on policy inputs or constraints
attributed to each variable                                                             imposed to the model.  Iterative computer
(weights)                                                 - total allocation            algorithms would be used where adjustments
constraints                are necessary.
Project       Individual LGU shares of        Phasing over the          Measures of spread and/or   The phasing over the project life of
Phasing       allocated resources             project life of           restrictions:                 individual LGU or central government shares
individual LGU and                                     of allocated resources are computed by
Central government's shares   central government          - the annual percentage       using linear transformations of the shares
of allocated resources          shares of allocated         spread proposed             (as percentages or absolute numbers)
determined as a residual of   resources                                                 according to a project phasing scenario.
LGU shares                                                - minimum, maximum and
average annual             Scenarios are user-defined and based on
percentage proposed        variations on policy inputs or constraints
imposed to the model. Iterative computer
- subsidize/non-subsidize   algorithms would be used where adjustments           .
policy inputs              are necessary.                                      15
0



- 78 -
Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
Table 2. PROPOSED RESOURCE ALLOCATION INDICES:
INDICATORS, WEIGHTS AND ASSUMPTIONS
INDICATORS                         WEIGHTS        ASSUMPTIONS
Alternative 1
Population                            1    More populous provinces may have
economies of scale
Population Density                    1    Higher density provinces may have
economies in health service delivery
Maternal Mortality Rate              -2    Major indicator of women's health
care needs
Infant Mortality Rate                -3   Major indicator of health care needs
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate         2    Measure of fulfilled health need
Alternative 2
Population                            1    More populous provinces may have
economies of scale
Population Density                    1    Higher density provinces may have
economies in health service delivery
Percent Subsistence Population       -4    Poverty has a major impact on
women's health care needs
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate         2    Measure of fulfilled health need
Table 3. PROPOSED COST SHARING INDEX:
INDICATORS, WEIGHTS AND ASSUMPTIONS
INDICATORS                         WEIGHTS        ASSUMPTIONS
Per Capita Income                     2    Richer LGUs should bear a larger
share than poorer LGUs
Percent Revenues Spent on Health    -1    LGUs that spend less for health (of
revenue) should bear a larger share
Percent Subsistence Population       -4    LGUs with lower poverty levels
should bear a larger share
Fiscal Burden                         -1    LGUs with a lower fiscal burden
for health should bear a larger
share
Per Capita Subsidy                    2    LGUs with higher per capita
government subsidy for health should
bear a larger share



- 79 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 8
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Project Management and Implementation Arrangements
A. Organizational Structure of the DOH for the Project
1.       The Department of Health (DOH) will provide overall technical and
managerial direction for project implementation as well as undertake direct
implementation of nationally-retained functions. The DOH Undersecretary-Chief
of Staff will serve as the National Project Director, reporting to the
Secretary of Health. The Office of Special Concerns (OSC) will have overall
responsibility for the project, and the Assistant Secretary for Special
Concerns will serve as Project Coordinator, reporting to the Project Director.
Day-to-day coordination of project activities would be delegated to a Project
Management Office (PMO) for the Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project
(WHSMP), which will be established in the OSC and will be headed by a full-
time Project Manager. The PMO will be responsible for coordinating with four
groups of DOH managers.
2.       Group One consists of the units of the Office for Management Services
(OMS), headed by an Undersecretary. These units will prepare all finance,
budget and accounting documentation for action by the Project Director. They
will prepares the communications to be sent by the Project Director to the
Department of Finance (DOF) regarding releases of funds to DOH implementing
units as well as local government units (LGUs) implementing the project.
3.       Group Two consists of program managers for Family Planning, Women's
Health, AIDS/STDs and Nutrition, whose units will generate guidelines to be
followed by LGUs implementing the project and will undertake technical
supervision through the regional field health offices.
4.       Group Three consists of the managers for the functions of
infrastructure, procurement and logistics, information, education and
communication (IEC), training and management systems, and research and
evaluation, whose units will generate guidelines to be followed by
participating LGUs as well as undertake actual implementation activities.
5.       Group Four consists of regional directors, who will provide field
assistance to participating LGUs, adapt project guidelines to regional
conditions, and undertake implementation of region-wide activities such as
training, IEC campaigns and supplies distribution.
6.       These managers will perform their functions for WHSMP using their
respective staff within the regular structure of the DOH, but where the
project is concerned, will be under the supervision of the Project Director.



- 80 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 8
B. Functions of the Project Management Office
7.       The PMO will consist of 13 contractual staff funded by the project,
and will perform the management and coordination functions described below.
Pre-Implementation Phase
(a) Launch the project and orient national, regional and provincial staff
(b) Recruit staff
(c) Plan for first year of implementation
(d) Become familiar with procedures of all involved donor agencies
(e) Coordinate the establishment of management structures consistent with
donor and Government agreements
(f) Establish financial flow and reporting mechanisms
(g) Monitor progress of pre-implementation activities
(h) Take advance action on procurement and consultant recruitment
(i) Coordinate donor mission visits
Annual Project Budget Proposal
(a) Formulate guidelines to estimate annual project ceiling:
- determine projected annual expenditure based on project costs
- provide initial indications of amounts to managers of project
components
- assemble an initial indicative annual project budget
(b) Propose annual project budget
(c) Assist Project Director in negotiating final annual project
appropriation during the budget preparation and authorization phases
(d) Upon arrival of project budget ceiling, prepare annual work and
financial plan
Annual Work and Financial Plan
(a) Assemble the inputs necessary for managers of project components to
draft a plan and budget for their respective components:
- set initial ceilings per component and per expense category based
on supporting papers of proposed budget
- determine status of obligations per component, based on inputs of
OMS



- 81 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 8
- identify activities/items/components that are likely to be
re-planned based on implementation experience
(b) Design procedures and forms to be used in the preparation of
component plans and budgets
(c) Draft, obtain Project Director approval and disseminate guidelines on
the preparation of component plans and budgets
(d) Assist managers of project components in preparing their respective
plans and budgets
(e) Design procedures, mechanisms and guidelines for the review and
integration of component plans and budgets:
- propose a committee to conduct review (for approval of Project
Director)
- propose criteria and guidelines for conduct of review (for the
approval of the Project Director)
- assist in conduct of review proceedings
- document comments, recommendations and results of review
proceedings
- summarize the results of review for approval by Project Director
- prepare and facilitate issuance of final decisions on the outcome
of the review for the information of all concerned
(f) Assist managers of project components in revising their respective
plans and budgets in accordance with the outcome of the review
(g) Coordinate with OMS in transcription of the component plans and
budgets into the required forms prescribed by the Department of
Budget and Management (DBM) for work and financial plan
(h) Assist OMS in the preparation, submission and follow-up of the Work
and Financial Plans with DBM
(i) Assist OMS in the revision or provision of additional documentation
as required by DBM for approval of the Work and Financial Plans and
subsequent release of budget
(j) Work with OMS for budget release and dissemination of copies of
release documents to the managers of project components
Funds for Proiect Activities
(a) In coordination with OMS, prepare guidelines for initial funds
release via one or all of the following:
- use of available LGU funds to be reimbursed by WHSHP funds
- use of available DOH funds to be reimbursed by WHSMP funds
- use of other available Government funds by DOH or LGUs to be
reimbursed by WHSHP funds



- 82 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of 8
(b)  In coordination with OMS, process disbursement transactions:
- assist LGUs and DOH units in generating proper statements of
expenditures (SOEs) for project activities
- collect and consolidate these SOEs
- prepare application forms for withdrawal of donor funds
- document application forms for withdrawal of donor funds
- liaise with concerned donors on replenishment
(c)  In coordination with OMS, process reimbursements of disbursements:
- prepare instructions to pay project expenditures of DOH and LGUs
- monitor releases to project components
- assist LGUs and DOH units in sustaining the flow of activities,
funds and documentation
Technical Assistance Activities
(a) Prepare a consolidated technical assistance plan for the year:
- collect all technical assistance requirements in the component plan
- consolidate/package technical assistance requirements into possible
contracting modules
- prepare a schedule of technical assistance contracting and
implementation
(b)  Assist managers of project components in the development of Terms of
Reference and Scope of Work for required technical assistance
(c)  Utilize contracting approach based on donor guidelines as applied to
specific requirements/circumstances
(d)  Assist managers of project components in undertaking the contracting
for technical assistance (request for proposal, review of proposal,
preparing contract documents)
(e)  Coordinate with all DOH units involved in contracting (Legal, OMS,
Commission on Audit (COA), others as needed)
(f)  Assist manager of project components in monitoring contractor
performance, submission of outputs and documentation of satisfactory
performance
(g)  Coordinate with OMS in facilitating the release of payments to
contractors based on authorization of component managers and Project
Director
(h)  Monitor all technical assistance contracts and facilitate
termination, amendment, extension or addition according to
recommendations of the managers of project components with approval
of Project Director



- 83 -
Annex 9
Page 5 of 8
Guidelines for LGU Implementation
(a)  Prepare draft Project Implementation Agreements (PIAs) and specific
negotiation issues for each province
(b)  Prepare draft agreements for each province to negotiate with cities
and municipalities involved in the project
(c)  Calculate total provincial package and cost-share arrangements for
all provinces
(d)  Assist Project Director, program managers, functional managers and
regional directors in identifying and preparing essential guidelines
for LGU implementation of the project
(e)  Assist Project Director and Regional Directors in undertaking
negotiations of PIAs for each province
(f)  Document all negotiations between DOH and provinces
(g)  Assist province in preparing initial project plan and budget
(h)  Through the regional field health offices, maintain communication
with LGU regarding the status of project implementation
Coordinating Central Procurement
(a)  Request managers of project components to prepare initiating
documents for procurement
(b)  Review request against budgetary authorities and restrictions
(c)  Assist the Procurement and Logistics Service (PLS) in managing
procurement:
- assist in organizing technical committee to write specifications
and undertake review of offers
- participate in bid administration (issuing bid documents, conduct
of bidding, awards)
- monitor the review, evaluation and award
- keep managers of project components informed on status of
procurement
(d)  Assist managers of project components in preparing plan for utilizing
procured items:
- preparing the distribution list for approval by Project Director;
- arranging the distribution; and
- documenting the receipt and use of items.



- 84 -
Annex 9
Page 6 of 8
(e) Ensure that procurement documents are reviewed and approved by
concerned agencies (managers of project components, PLS, donors,
other authorized units or offices)
(f) Facilitate resolution of procurement issues (complaints of losin;
bidders, extension of delivery dates, non-acceptance of deliveries,
non-release of contract documents form legal or COA, obtaining
approval of various units) by monitoring, coordination, reporting to
Project Director, and recommending action by concerned officials
Monitoring of Project Implementation
(a) Prepare quarterly physical accomplishment reports:
- collect information on day-to-day implementation from all
implementing units;
- conduct quarterly consultative meetings or implementation
- summarize reports and recommendations for Project Director's
information and action
(b) Prepare inputs for preparation of monthly and quarterly financial
reports of OMS:
- collect monthly obligations and disbursement by all project
implementing units
- consolidate reports according to project formats
(c) Prepare and submit quarterly and annual reports required by
Government oversight agencies and donors
(d) Serve as secretariat of donor's review missions
(e) Respond to queries and complaints relative to project implementation
(delayed releases, disputes in implementation, confusion about
guidelines)
(f) Follow-up action by concerned officials necessary for project
implementation
(g) Report to Project Director all issues, developments and concerns
regarding project implementation requiring decision and action
(h) Undertake the implementation of any project component or activity
which the Project Director decides should be managed directly by the
PMO
C. LGU Organization
Each Provincial Government will establish their respective WHSMP
implementation organization. This will typically feature the provincial
health officer serving as the WHSMP implementation officer, reporting to the
Governor and supported by other provincial officers as necessary.



- 85 -
Annex 9
Page 7 of 8
D. Summary of Key Implementation Roles
1.   Project Director
- Decides on/approves project implementation strategies, plans,
budgets and activities
2.   Project Coordinator
- Supervises PMO
3.   PMO
- Performs all day-to-day management and coordination functions
necessary to support project implementation
4.   OMS
- Performs all budget, accounting and financial management functions
necessary for project implementation, in accordance with DOF
5.  Designated Managers of Project Components
- Prepare all technical guidelines on the implementation of the
component by LGUs
- Implement project activities as assigned
6.   Regional Directors
- Assist LGUs in organizing project implementation in the locality
- Interprets project guidelines at LGU request
- Provides technical and administrative assistance to LGU in project
implementation
- Communicates LGU concerns on project implementation to Project
Director/Project Coordinator
DOF
- Provides ceiling for WHSMP project in its annual appropriation
- Requests releases of WHSMP funds based on DOH work and financial plans
- Provides WHSMP funds to all implementing units based on work plans
- Disburses WHSMP funds based on DOH authorization
- Prepares financial reports for DOH transmittal to donors
- Receives releases of project proceeds



- 86 -
Annex 9
Page 8 of 8
1.   Governor/Mayor
- Signs PIA on WHSMP participation
- Establishes WHSHP implementing organization
- Designates WHSMP implementing officer
- Approves annual work and financial plan on WHSMP implementation
- Delegates project implementation authorities to appropriate officials
2.   WHSMP Implementing Officer (Generally Provincial/City/Municipal Health
Officer
- Directs implementation of WHSMP activities in the LGU
- Prepares plans and budgets
- Approves implementation activities



Implementation Schedule
199C 6           1996              1997      T       1998              1999
ID   Task Nane                                                           Qtr 4Qtr itr 2Qtr 3ptr 4tri Qtr   r  tr  tr  tr2Qtr  tr  tr 1 tr  tr 3Qr 4|Qr I  tr 2tr3d r4
2    MOBILIZATION AND PROJECT LAUNCH
9    COMPONENT I: SERVICE DELIVERY
10       Sub-comnponent I: Famirly Planning
11           Programning and Budgeting
19           Civil Works                                                                                                               I
20               RHUs                                                                                                                  I
21                   Recruitment of Consultants
32                   Documxent Preparation
36                   Prequalificatlon
39                   Bid Tendering
46                   Year 1 knpeneenation                                                              f2s
74                   Year 2 hImlementation
103                  Year 3 IrMplementation
133              BHS                                                          IF_
134                  Recruitrnent of Consulants
146                  Document Preparation
148                  Prequalfication
161                  Bid Tendering
15C                  Year 1 in;mpnentation
167                  Year 2 rnplenentation
216                  Year 3 Implementation
246           Procurement                                                     ___
247               Equipment (ICB)                                              ___                                                                                       X
276               Fumiture (LCB)
Page 1 of 10



CR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
~~~~~~ I~~~~~~~~M-
a  c  a                 m 
0
I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
EA
4a OLr
ID  00
din~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
CD
'A
4i 4i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
01 xaUV                             88-



_ [+  W  E 3 _    L! . .  U-    E  3 _   n E E 3 u a  g  E A        n _.6 .
U-4
I~            i- jjjjIJ    [j  j{ 
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ to
Ct
oz xauus                 - ~~~~~~68-



-4 u
r  . ! ' '1 | ! ~~~~Ca i i" a.  ZI  W'
.. . . . . ..    .... -                 ..   . . ...  .......                                                                                           CD
. . . . ............. .
cdr
0
-~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
01xBuuIV                                                                   06 



-91-                                                                       Annex 10
Cy,
b
104
a 0
C.,v
cn 
Ln 
72    O 
0~~~~~~~~~~~
Ie-  
i    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                                               W I~u  .    .                            'o
-     -                 - -                  -      -       -                 ~                       -I     -            U                 
I-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        0      =     I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      i            ,    .  . "



-. -  =  0  0  o  a  a  a  a  a                      p  p  *  m  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
*  -J  *~~~~~~ m4 iS        m                                  i-
IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-4~~~~~
~ ~ ~~~~~~~~'Ifi      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
0
*0 
I                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
9.                                                              I.
0
CT
00
CT
... .. ... .. .. ...   . ... .. ..   .. .. ... ..  p
4d                      CT~~~~~~
CT
CT
0
A~~~~~~
UT-Wslmv                          Z6~~~~~~4i



t 1, 11 1  1i X X i! S t  ii Xi hi hi i hi ,i hi 
L.
................          .....     ..                                       ............  . .......    ...     ........ . .    ................................     ..............    ...........    .......................   . . . . . . .
c,
.   .   .....~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........    .....  .............................................. ............ ......
... .. . .... .                                                                                                -C~~~~~~~ 5 
0 a uu                                                    -                                                      t6  -
..............                                                                                                                       ..       ..       ....                                 ..       .... r
I-     4.             ~*  4d
41I.I                                                                                                   
-    q                                                                                 a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
*                                                                         -    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
..       . . . ...                                                                         . .  . . . . .. . . . .   .   . . .  . . .        . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 
U                                           it                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
-                          amI
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c
.. . . . .             . . .    . . ..                       . . .    -. . . . . . . .. .                                           . . . . . . .. .. . .                        . . ..      . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .
C6~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-4    -4  l                                  -4
F                     I                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~I
2~~~~~
0
ID
f"v
0
-i
102
0.
CZ    -
.......... ~~~~~~~                            5 0........  ..... .. ....-.......  .. ..
Ur
CZ
.........  ........... .......   .......  .........    ... ...................  U



Implementation Schedule
1991             1996              1997              1998             1999
ID   Task Name                                                           Qtr 4Qtr 1tr 2ptr 3 tr 4t   tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr  tr4Qtr I Qtr 2itr3      tr  2tr3 l4
2399              Second Campaign
2402              Third Campaign
2405              Fourth Campaign
2408          Topic Specific Campaigns 
2409              Round 1 __
2410                  Adoiescents
2411                  Women In Union
2420                  Older Women 36+
2425                  Specal Audiences (Victkn of Domestic Violence)
2430              Round 2
2431                  Adolescents                                                                                 ri
2436                  Womnen In Union
2441                  Older Women 35+
246                   Special Audiences (Victins of Domebtic Violence)
2451              Round 3                                                                                                           IF
2452                  Adolescents
2457                  Women in Union
2462                  Older Women 35+
2467                  Special Audiences (Victms of Domestic Violence)
2472      hnpct Evaluation
2481  Sub-Component iII: Logisis                                             +.s
2482      Programming and Budgeting
2490      Procurement (Equipment)                                              _                                                                                         x
2491          iCB Procurement Process                                                                                                                                    0
Page 9 of 10



Philippines - Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project
Implementation Schedule
_                                                        1     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1S996  1  1996    1997           1  9Sti           1 ~t999
0ID   Task Name                                                                     2Qtr 3ptr tr     21
2617      Procurement (Delivery Vans)
2618          ICB Procurement Process
2637      Clvil Works                                                       5
2638          Warehouse Renovation (Year 1)
2661          Warehouse Renovation (Year 2)
2639          Warehouso Renovatlon (Year 3)
2621          Warehouse Renovatlon (Year 4)
2663  Sub-Component IV: Project Managemen-
2663      Prograning and Budgeting
2667      Procurement (Equipmrent)
2668          ICB Procurerent Process                                                                                                                                 %O
2687          Local TA (KI)W;
2709  COMPONENT III: COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP                                                                                       *
2710      ProgrammIng and Budgeting
2718      First Year Projects
2727      Second Year Projects
2736      Third Year Projects
2746      Fourth Year Projects
2764      Fifth Year Projects
2763  COMPONENT IV: POLICY & RESEARCH                                       5                 -
2764      Planning and Progranmming
2772      Research Grants
Page 10 of 10



- 97 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 10
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Project Monitoring Indicators
1.       The monitoring indicators for the Women's Health and Safe Motherhood
Project intend to capture the progress and impact of three different but
related aspects of: (a) World Bank financing of specific inputs and
activities as part of an integral project; (b) multi-source financing of the
whole project within the Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Program of the
Department of Health; and (c) broader support of the Government's program.
2.       The indicators will be defined, measured and reported as part of a
process that is linked with the day-to-day details of Government's management
and execution of the Bank-financed elements, the whole project and the overall
program. They would provide signals of underlying processes, factors and
determinants of project performance and impact which can be monitored during
project implementation.
3.       The indicators will focus on tracking and measuring the efficiency of
implementing the project as designed. Persistent failures to meet targeted
norms may lead to a re-design of the project. In most cases, however,
shortcomings observed through the indicators would be correlated with failures
to execute a sound design.
4.       Key indicators selected to monitor and evaluate overall project
implementation progress and results are described in Part A below. Part B
provides a detailed list of input, process, outcome and impact variables
against which each of the project components would be assessed.
A. Key Indicators
1.       Loan Disbursement Rate (semi-annual; Bank financing-specific),
defined as the cumulative amount of proj ct expenditures incurred by the
Government and withdrawn from Loan proceeds as a percentage of the total Loan
amount. Actual disbursements would be measured against the projected
disbursement schedule (Annex 14).
2.       Physical Accomplishment Rates (quarterly; project-wide scope),
defined as the cumulative quantity of physical accomplishments attained by the
project expressed as a percentage of total physical targets. This would
include facilities constructed or rehabilitated, and equipment, drugs and
medical supplies procured. Actual accomplishments would be measured against
the agreed upon physical implementation schedule.
3.       Project Milestone Indicators (annual; project-wide scope).  Actual
accomplishment of project milestones would be measured against the agreed upon
project implementation schedule. Milestones would include signing of the
Project Implementation Agreements with Local Government Units, employment of



- 98 -
Annex 11
Page 2 of 10
consultants and delivery of key outputs, conduct of training of health workers
and other staff, and establishment of community partnerships.
4.       Service Availability Indicators (first, third and fifth years of
project; program-wide scope), defined as the proportion of total public health
facilities capable of delivering women's health services, where such services
are regarded as available in a first-referral hospital, rural health unit or
barangay health station when such facility has all the required facilities,
equipment, trained staff and supplies to deliver maternal care, family
planning, reproductive tract infection/sexually transmitted disease, or
cervical cancer services. Service availability would be expressed in terms of
accumulated annual percentages of public facilities with available women's
health services, and would be compared to a baseline determined at the start
of the project.
5.       Access to Service Indicators (first, third and fifth years of
project; program-wide scope), defined as the proportion of the population
residing within a set distance in terms of normal travel time of a first-
referral hospital, rural health unit or barangay health station capable of
providing women's health services (as defined in para. 4 above). Service
access would be expressed as a proportion of the population with access to
service, and would be compared to a baseline determined at the start of the
project.
6.       Risk Reduction Indicators (first, third and fifth years of project;
program-wide scope), including:
(a)  the proportion of women contracting puerperal infections (i.e.,
occurring during childbirth or immediately thereafter) among the
total number of diagnosed pregnancies. The end-of-project
target would be a reduction by 25%; and
(b)  the proportion of low birth weight babies among newborns (as an
indicator of pregnancy-related risk to infants as well as of
maternal health and nutritional status). The end-of-project
target would be a reduction by 10%.
7.       Indicators for GeograRhic Disaggregates:  Percentage of target
provinces meeting the norms for physical accomplishment, service availability
and access to service (as defined in paras. 2, 4 and 5 above).



- 99 -
Annex 11
Page 3 of 10
B. Detailed Indicators by Project Component
Component                               Indicator
aternal Care
Input           Number of facilities upgraded and equipped:
- hospital obstetric wings
- rural health units
- barangay health stations
Number of facilities constructed and equipped:
- lying-in clinics
- maternity waiting homes
Number of medical centers and teaching hospitals equipped
Percent of hospitals capable of performing cesarean sections
Number of kits procured and delivered:
- midwifery kits
- traditional birth attendant kits
- emergency obstetric kits
- safe home delivery kits
Quantities of micronutrient supplements procured and delivered:
- iron/folate
- Vitamin A
- iodine
Quantities of tetanus toxoid vaccines procured and delivered
Number of health care providers trained in maternal care and
staff-months of training by type of provider and training
Proportion of health care providers able to provide emergency
obstetric services by type of provider
Number of staff and staff-months of technical assistance
provided by specialization
Number of home-based maternal records printed and distributed
Process         Prenatal Care
Proportion of pregnant women who received:
- 2 doses of tetanus toxoid immunization
- any prenatal care from trained health care provider by type
of provider
- at least 3 prenatal care visits
- prenatal care before 20 weeks and/or after 38 weeks



- 100 -
Annex 11
Page 4 of 10
Component                               Indicator
Process         Prenatal Care (cont.)
Average months pregnant at first prenatal visit
Mean/median number of antenatal visits
Percent of births where client received full complement of
prenatal care services
Mean waiting time for services at health facility
Percent of women with prenatal complications (e.g., bleeding,
fever, convulsions)
Delivery and Post-natal Care
Percent of:
- births attended by trained health care provider by type of
provider
- women with complications during labor and delivery by type of
complication
- women who were referred for management of complications
- women with post-partum complications by type of complication
Rate of Cesarian sections
Place of delivery by age, parity, educational level and source
of prenatal care
Proportion of women who received postnatal care from trained
health care provider by type of provider
Maternal Nutrition
Proportion of pregnant and lactating women who
received/completed micronutrient supplementation regime:
- iron/folate
- Vitamin A
- iodine
Outcome         Proportion of women with access to prenatal care
Percent of women who were referred and received effective
management according to protocols/standards for:
- pre-natal complications
- complications during labor and delivery (including
appropriate indications for forceps, vacuum extraction or
cesarean sections)
- post-partum complications
Incidence of:
- tetanus (maternal and newborn)
- low birth weight
- prematurity



- 101 -
- 101 -                  ~~~~Annex 11
Page 5 of 10
Component                                Indicator
Outcome         Maternal Care (cont.)
Percent of postpartum infections acquired in a hospital or
health facility
Percent of women satisfied with treatment received
Proportion of pregnant and lactating women who are:
- moderately or severely anemic
- Vitamin A deficient
- iodine deficient
Impact           Decline in:
- maternal mortality ratio
- maternal mortality rate
- lifetime risk of death
- infant mortality rate
- perinatal mortality rate
Family Planning
Input           Number of health facilities upgraded and equipped:
- rural health units
- barangay health stations
Number of minilaparatomy kits procured and delivered
Quantities of drugs and medical supplies procured and delivered
Number of health care providers trained in family planning and
staff-months of training by type of provider and training
Proportion of health providers able to provide family planning
services by type of provider
Process          Number of women who receive contraceptive counselling
Percentage of women who receive contraceptive counselling after
a pregnancy
Number of voluntary surgical contraception (VSC) procedures
performed
Outcome          Percentage of women with access to family planning services
Unmet need for contraception
Number of unintended pregnancies
Percent of women satisfied with services received



- 102 -
Annex 11
Page 6 of 10
Component                               Indicator
Impact          Family Planning (cont.)
Increase in contraceptive prevalence rate for modern methods
Decline in total fertility rate
RTIs/STDs
Input           RTI/STD algorithms and syndromic approach curriculum developed
and field tested
Number of health care providers trained in RTI/STD management
and staff-months of training by type of provider and training
Proportion of health care providers able to diagnose, treat or
refer for treatment RTIs/STDs by type of provider
Number of staff and staff-months of technical assistance
provided
Quantities of drugs,reagents and medical supplies procured and
delivered
Process         Proportion of:
- women diagnosed as having an RTI/STD
- women diagnosed with an STD who complete the prescribed
treatment
- partners of women diagnosed with an STD who report for
testing
- partners of women diagnosed with an STD who complete the
prescribed treatment
Number of women who received RTI/STD counselling when
presenting for pregnancy-related or family planning services
Outcome         Proportion of women with access to RTI/STD management services
Number of untreated RTIs/STDs
Number of RTI/STD complications
Number of iatrogenically-induced RTIs/STDs
Percent of women satisfied with services received
Impact          Decline in:
- incidence/prevalence of RTIs
- proportion of total infertility rates attributable to RTIs



- 103 -
Annex 11
Page 7 of 10
Component                                Indicator
Cervical Cancer
Input           Number of cryotherapy machines procured and delivered
Quantities of drugs, reagents and medical supplies procured and
delivered
Number of health care providers trained in cervical cancer
management by type of provider and training
Proportion of health care providers able to provide Pap smears,
cervical biopsies, hysterectomy and cryotherapy by type of
provider
Number and staff-months of technical assistance provided
Process          Percentage of women over 35 years who have had at least one Pap
smear
Number of cases detected
Number of cervical biopsies performed for suspicious lesions
Number of cryotherapy procedures performed for early invasive
cancer
Number of simple and radical hysterectomies performed
Outcome          Proportion of women with access to cervical cancer management
services
Percent of women who received effective cancer treatment
according to protocols/standards
Impact           Decline in:
- incidence of invasive cancer
- deaths due to cervical cancer
IEC
Input            Formative research (focus groups/surveys)
Communications planning
Materials development/production
Process          Duration and frequency of radio and television plugs by message
area
Frequency of print ads by message area



- 104 -
Annex 11
Page 8 of 10
Component                               Indicator
Process          Information. Education and Communication (cont.)
Number of print materials produced and distributed by message
area
Number of other materials (training/teaching materials and
videos for health care workers) produced and distributed
Number of special events conducted by theme/target audience
Outcome          Increase in knowledge about women's health conditions and
practices contributing to improved health by target audience
and message area
Changes in attitudes and health behavior by target audience and
message area
Traininz
Input           Number of staff and staff-months of technical assistance
provided
Needs assessment and training plans
Training curricula, methodologies and materials
Teaching models and equipment
Process         Number and duration of workshops/courses by type of training
Number of trainees
Quality of training (to be measured through observational
studies of trainers; review of training materials; simulated
training sessions for trainers; on-the-job trainer evaluation;
pre- and post tests for each training course, including end-of-
course competency and on-the-job competency assessment of
knowledge and skills; trainee and supervisor interviews)
Outcome         On-the-job competency levels in the following skills (to be
measured through observation of on-the-job practices; knowledge
tests; interviews with trainees, supervisors, clients and
communities; simulated clients):
- clinical
- diagnostic
- counselling
- interpersonal communication
- history-taking
- referral practices



- 105 -
Annex 11
Page 9 of 10
Component                               Indicator
Outcome         Training (cont.)
Acceptability of training (to be measured through observational
studies; trainee interviews; evaluation questionnaires)
- trainee attendance and completion rates
- trainee satisfaction and interest
- employer (DOH and LGU) acceptability
- trainer acceptability
Logistics
Input           Number of warehouses upgraded/constructed and equipped
Number of delivery vans procured and delivered
Number of computers and related hardware procured
Logistics information system software procured
Number of logistics staff trained and staff-months by type of
training
Number of staff and staff-months of technical assistance
provided by specialization
Process         Implementation of systems (structures, personnel, procedures)
for:
- procurement, including commodity forecasting, commodity
procurement scheduling, requisition, bidding and ordering,
and random sampling for drugs
- distribution from the center to provinces/cities to
municipalities/barangays
- storage and materials handling, including warehousing and
inventory
- logistics information system, including stock pricing,
ordering status, inventory control, demand analysis, supplier
performance and distribution verification
Number and duration of workshops/courses by type of training,
number of trainees, and quality of training
Outcome         Timeliness and accuracy of procurement of commodities (drugs,
reagents and other medical supplies)
Timeliness and accuracy of distribution of commodities
Adequacy of handling and storage of commodities
Timeliness and accuracy of logistics information
On-the-job competency levels and acceptability of training of
| logistics staff



- 106 -
Annex 11
Page 10 of 10
Component                               Indicator
Communitv
Partnerships
Input           Training, including gender training, project planning and
management, community organizing, monitoring and evaluation,
and IEC on women's health and family planning
Provincial teams to assist in community organization
Grants for community projects
Process         Number of partnerships established by type of partnership
Number of community projects by type of project
Outcome         Basic health indicators of participating communities
Research
Input           Technical assistance
Process         List of studies finalized
Terms of reference agreed upon
Technical assistance contracts signed
Outcome         Completed studies
Policy and program recommendations



WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Component - Base Coats
(USS '0W0)
Service Dvery
Otr Women's Healh        1tutina Deveopnt                                   Pollcy/
Matenl   FnNly            Cervical                               Project    Conmnunity  Operations
Car    Planning RTIsSTDs  Cancer   Training   1EC    Logistics ManAgement Partnerships  Research    Total
L nestment Costs
A. CM Worh                  11,747.4  1,108.6       -        -          -       -  2,612.0          -             -         -   15,468.0
B. Funlure                        -    124.5        -        -          -       -        -          -             -        -       124.5
C. Equnert                   8,091.7    560.3     7.0    69.8       568.8    14.0   660.9        80.0                      -   10,052.5
D.Vehicie                         -        -        -        -          -       -  1,944.0       60.0            -         -    2,004.0
E.Inltal Mudl: SuppNssa    31,791.6                -        -          -       -        -          -                      -   31,791.6
F. Media/b                             -            -                   -  4,142.9       -          -            -         -    4,142.9
0. Consutanwt Services
Foreign                     293.0        -    45.0         -   1,672.7    50.0   645.0        117.6       2,000.0        -    4,823.3
Local                      3,162.0    86.5        -     15.0   1,499.7  1,849.7   662.0           -            -         -    7,274.9
SubtotaiConsultwntServices   3,455.0     86.5    45.0    15.0   3,172.3  1,899.7  1,307.0        117.6      2,000.0        -   12,098.2
H. Tralnng
OvessTrainng                    -        -        -        -      196.0       -    144.2          -            -         -      340.2
LocalTrainig               1,981.0       -        -        -   8,885.0    77.1    275.4           -                      -   11,218.5
SubotalTraIning              1,981.0       -        -        -   9,081.0    77.1   419.6            -            -         -   11,558.7
I Grants                          -        -        -        -          -       -        -          -       9,800.0        -    9,800.0
J Sdies                           -         -       -                       -            -          -             -    957.2      957.2
TotalinveslmentCostx          57,066.7  1,879.8    52.0    84.8  12,822.1  6,133.7  6,943.5        257.6     11,800.0    957.2   97,997.5
M. Recurrent Costs
A. Drudg                          -  2:384.8  8,469.0  1,799.6          -       -        -          -            -         -   12,653.4
B. McalSupplleswUnerals          -  1,647.8   302.6    24.7           -        --                  -            -         -    1,975.2
C. Sadma/Honorwar                 -        -        -        -      996.2       -    868.3      364.3            -         -    2,228.8
D. Maintenance
FacNleesMantenance          584.3     26.7        -        -         -        -        -          -            -         -      611.0
Vehie Mate                      -        -        -        -         -        -  1,911.6          -            -         -    1,911.6
Subtotl Mainterce             584.3     26.7        -        -         -        -  1,911.6          -            -         -    2,522.6
E. OteOperOatngCost           257.5        -        -   378.2   1,541.1    218.6         -      625.0            -         -    3,020.4
Total RecufrentCosts            841.8  4,059.4  8,771.6  2,202.5   2,537.3    218.6  2,779.9      989.3            -         -   22,400.4
Total BMSELINE COSTS          57,908.5  5,939.2  8,823.e  2,287.3  15,359.4  6,352.3  9,723.4    1,246.9     11,800.0    957.2  120,397.9    D 
PhysicalConUtngernce         2,773.8    267.3   334.4   114.4      107.5   317.6   486.2         59.9        472.0      47.9    4,980.9   qM
PriceCnlec                   5,631.7    754.3   624.0   275.8      526.4   938.3  1,353.1        62.2        728.0    171.4   11,065.2  I,x
TotlaPROJECTCOSTS             66,314.0  6,960.7  9,782.1  2,677.4  15,993.4  7,608.2 11,562.6    1,369.0     13,000.0   1,176.5  136,443.9    0
-J1
3/ ADB wqpmndlure acoounlt cding obi rc kdts (drugs) mad micrones.
b/ lncid bra   time for teWen wod radio lEC spots, wid pubkcaton of IEC mat.



PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Expendihue Account by Con    -Totals' ',cudin CmqH gis
(US$ 000)
Othw Wcrnm's HNM               iiUlonal Dw eopnt                          Podky/
Matenl   Fwly             Cervcal                               Pro*cd    Con_wiy  Operaoons
Cae   Plum    RTWSTDs Cancer   Tran          EC    Logistics Managunwt Parberh      Reserch    Totdal
L hk_esbnu Cods
A. Clv Waft                 13.545.5  1,294.1      -        -         -        -  3,044.2                      -         -   17,883.8
B. Furnlm                         -    148.5       -        -         -        -        -         -            -         -      148.5
C. Equlpnt                  8,872.1   618.3      7.5    77.1      573.7    16.8   748.9        88.0                      -   11,000.4
D. Vehic                          -        -       -        -         -        -  2,132.6      86.0            -         -    2,198.6
E. lA Met  Suisa /a        38,657.7        -       -        -         -        -       -          -            -         -   38,657.7
F. M   b                          -        -       -        -         -  4,961.9        -         -            -         -    4,961.9
G. Consu_it Sevce
Fmt*gn                      337.8        -    47.9        -   1,672.7    59.9   717.9       126.7       2,203.4        -    5,166.3
Local                     3,648.0   102.6        -     16.3   1,576.9  2,215.4   809.5          -            -         -    8,366.6
SubtotaConsultu_Services    3,983.8   102.6    47.9    16.3   3,249.5  2,275.3  1,527.3       126.7       2,203.4        -   13,532.9
H. Taiig
O0_asTrabnn                     -        -       -        -     196.0        -   155.0          -            -         -      351.0      c
LocalTIk*                 2,284.2        -       -        -   9,357.3    92.4   339.1           -                      -   12,073.0
Subtl TrainIn               2,284.2        -       -        -   9,553.3    92.4   494.1           -            -         -   12,424.0
1. GruWs                          -       -        -        -         -        -       -          -      10,796.6       -   10,796.6
J. S                              -        -       -        -         -        -       -          -            -   1,176.5    1,176.5
TotallmCvesbriC-osts         65,343.4  2,161.4    55.4    93.4  13,376.6  7,346.4  7,945.2      280.7      13,000.0   1,176.5  110,779.0
L Recursui Cost
A. Drug.                          -  2,637.5  9,338.2  2,064.3        -        -       -          -            -        -   14,038.0
B. Maicd Su_lMdMerls              -  2,125.9   390.4    31.9          -        -       -          -            -        -    2,548.2
C. 5w_.i1 _h.uim                  -        -       -        -   1,064.2        -  1,120.8     400.7            -        -    2,585.6
D. MaI_ennc
Fac_U MLhnteranoS           673.7    35.9        -        -         -        -       -          -            -        -      709.6
V.hd. LbMt                              -        -e-nce  -  -                   2,496.7         -            -        -    2,496.7
Subtota Mainwnnc              673.7    35.9                 -                  -  2,496.7         -            -        -    3,206.4
E. Oher Operatg Costs         296.9        -       -   487.9   1,552.6   261.8         -      687.5            -        -    3,288.7     ,
TotalfteacimeiCost$             970.6  4,799.3  9,726.7  2,584.1   2,616.8   261.8  3,617.5    1,088.2           -        -   25,664.9   aQ
ToatlPROJECTCOSTS             66,314.0  6,960.7  9,782.1  2,677.4  15,993.4  7,608.2 11,562.6    1,389.0   13,000.0   1,176.5  136,443.9
o F
I ADB qpmn    acourt h      Idg dIc kle (duge) andnmcroniwlt.
lb nchides boat    for isubW and rado IEC spos, wnd pFcaon o lEC m .



PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Project Components by Year -- Base Costs
(US$ '000)
1995      1996       1997       1998       1999        Total
A. Service Delivery
1. Maternal Care                  6,065.9   11,950.4   16,072.0   15,663.7    8,156.5    57,908.5
2. Other Women's Health
Family Planning                   200.8    1,544.5    2,118.4    1,258 7     816 8      5,939.2
RTIs/STDs                          52.0    1,754.3    2,631.5    2,631.5    1,754.3     8,823.6
Cervical Cancer                    15.0      510.3     660.7      660.7      440.5      2,287.3
Subtotal Other Women's Health       267.8    3,8091     5,410.7    4,550.9    3,011.6    17,050.1
Subtotal Service Delivery           6,333.8   15,759.5   21,482.6   20,214.6   11,168.1    74,958.6
B. Institutional Development
1. Training                       1,749.2    3,097.0    3,805.9    3,507.4    3,199.9    15,359.4
2. IEC                              297.8    1,849.6    1,997.0    2,013.2     194.6      6,352.3
3. Logistics                      1,023.2    4,341. U    2,027.1    1,388.3    943.9      9,723.4
4. Project Management               384.9     256.7      209.6      197.9      197.9      1,246.9
Subtotal Institutional Development  3,455.1    9,544.3    8,039.6    7,106.7    4,536.3    32,682.1
C. Community Partnerships           2,360.0    2,360.0    2,360.0    2,360.0    2,360.0    11,800.0
D. Policy/Operations Research          95.7     191.4      287.2      287.2       95.7       957.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                12,244.6   27,855.3   32,169.4   29,968.5   18,160.1   120,397.9
Physical Contingencies              506.6    1,152.4    1,330.8    1,239.8     751.3     4,980.9
Price Contingencies                 809.9    2,216.1    2,999.6    3,083.5    1,956.1    11,065.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                 13,561.1   31,223.8   36,499.8   34,291.7   20,867.5   136,443.9
Dz m
x
o N)



PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Project Components by Year - Costs Including Contingencies
(USS '000)
1995      1996       1997       1998       1999       Total
A. Service Delivery
1. Maternal Care                  6,931.0   13,650.2   18,385.8   17,958.9    9,388.1    66,314.0
2. Other Women's Health
Family Planning                  216.4    1,734.2    2,479.0    1,509.5    1,021.7     6,960.7
RTIsISTDs                         55.4    1,907.2    2,897.9    2,936.7    1,984.8     9,782.1
Cervical Cancer                   16.3      565.6      760.3      789.1     546.2      2,677.4
Subtotal Other Women's Health      288.1    4,206.9    6,137.2    5,235.3    3,552.7    19,420.2
Subtotal Service Delivery           7,219.1   17,857.2   24,523.0   23,194.2   12,940.8    85,734.2
B. lnsttutional Development
1. Training                       1,757.3    3,177.7    3,943.7    3,698.5    3,416.2    15,993.4
2. IEC                             356.7    2,215.3    2,391.8    2,411.2     233.1      7,608.2
3. Logistics                      1,102.2    4,872.8    2,461.0    1,798.6    1,328.1    11,562.6
4. Project Management              422.3      281.0      230.3      217.6     217.6      1,369.0
Subtotal Institutional Development  3,638.4   10,546.9    9,026.8    8,125.9    5,195.1    36,533.2                  0
C. Community Partnerships           2,600.0    2,600.0    2,600.0    2,600.0    2,600.0    13,000.0
D. Policy/Opations Research          103.6      219.8      350.0      371.6     131.5      1,176.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                13,561.1   31,223.8   36,499.8   34,291.7   20,867.5   136,443.9
-.4



PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
(US$ '000)
Foreign Exchange
1995      1996       1997      1998       1999       Total    %      Amount
I. Investment Costs
A CMI Works                       1,780.6    3,895.9    4,900.5    3,716.2    1,174.7    15,468.0    50     7,744.5
B. Fumiture                         12.4      49.8       62.2        0.0       0.0       124.5    20          24.9
C. Equipment                     1,885.1    2,636.2    2,934.5    2,170.5    426.3    10,052.5    87        8,695.4
D. Vehicles                         60.0    1,944.0       0.0        0.0       0.0     2,004.0    87        1,749.6
E. Initial Medical Supplies /a   2,637.2    5,992.5    8,560.6    8,777.2    5,824.2    31,791.6    79     25,157.5
F. Media lb                         31.4    1,174.3    1,350.0    1,555.7     31.4     4,142.9    20         828.6
G. Consuftant Services
Foreign                         1,247.4    1,285.2    1,143.9    611.2     535.6      4,823.3    90       4,336.0
Local                           1,238.3    1,960.9    1,697.9    1,448.3   929.4      7,274.9    10        727.5
Subtotal Consultant Services     2,485.7    3,246.1    2,841.8    2,059.5    1,465.0    12,098.2    42      5,063.5
H. Training
Overseas Training                247.8      54.8       13.1       13.1      11.4       340.2    90         306.2
Local Training                   475.5    2,192.9    3,004.8    3,063.3    2,482.0    11,218.5   8         905.1
Subtotal Training                  723.3    2,247.7    3,017.9    3,076.4    2,493.4    11,558.7    11      1,211.3
I. Grants                        1,960.0    1,960.0    1,960.0    1,960.0    1,960.0   9,800.0    20       1,960.0
J. Studies                          95.7     191.4      287.2      287.2      95.7       957.2    20         191.4
Total Investment Costs            11,671.5   23,337.8   25,914.7   23,602.7   13,470.7    97,997.5    54    52,626.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A Drugs                              0.0    2,530.7    3,796.0    3,796.0    2,530.7    12,653.4    95     12,009.2
B. Medical Supplies/Materials        0.0     395.0      592.6      592.6     395.0     1,975.2    0            0.0
C. Salanes/Honoraria               107.9     522.8      537.6      537.6     522.8     2,228.8    0            0.0
D. Maintenance
Facilities Maintenance            58.4     117.9      180.4      185.6      68.7       611.0    0            0.0
Vehicle Maintenance                0.0     356.4      453.6      550.8     550.8      1,911.6   0            0.0
Subtotal Maintenance                58.4     474.3      634.0      736.4     619.5     2,522.6    0            0.0
E. Other Operating Cost            406.8     594.7      694.5     703.1      621.3     3,020.4    0            0.0
Total Recurrent Costs                573.1    4,517.5    6,254.7    6,365.7    4,689.4    22,400.4    54    12,009.2          IV >
Total BASELINE COSTS               12,244.6   27,855.3   32,169.4   29,968.5   18,160.1   120,397.9    54    64,635.8
Physical Contingencies             506.6    1,152.4    1,330.8    1,239.8    751.3     4,980.9    54       2,674.0             x
Price Contingencies                809.9    2,216.1    2,999.6    3,083.5    1,956.1    11,065.2    48     5,264.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                13,561.1   31,223.8   36,499.8   34,291.7   20,867.5   136,443.9    53    72,574.5
a/ ADB expenditure account including obstetric kits (drugs) and micronutrients.
b/ Includes broadcast time for television and radio IEC spots, and publication of IEC materials.



PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ 000)
1995      1996       1997       1998      199        Total
1. Investment Cost
A. CMI Works                     2,009.4    4,479.8    5,731.5    4,308.5    1,354.5    17,883.8
B. Fumiture                         13.5       57.2      75.8        0.0       0.0       140.5
C. Equipment                     2,010.6    2,884.1    3,228.7    2,402.4    474.7    11,000.4
D. Vehicles                         6B.0    2,132.6       0.0        0.0       0.0      2,198.6
E. lnitial Medical Supplies /a   3,040.8    6,909.7    9,870.9   10,120.6    8,715.6    36,657.7
F. Media lb                         37.6    1,406.5    1,616.9    1,863.3     37.6      4,961.9
0. Consuant Service
Foreign                        1,328.9    1,369.4    1,218.1     661.7     588.2      5,166.3
Local                          1,398.4    2,248.2    1,962.2    1,683.3    1,076.5    8,366.6
Subtotal Consultant ServIces     2,727.3    3,615.6    3,180.3    2,345.0    1,664.7    13,532.9
H. Training
Overseas Training                254.4      59.0       13.1       13.1      11.4       351.0
Local Training                   524.2    2,328.6    3,211.6    3,315.6    2,693.1    12,073.0
Subtotal Training                  778.6    2,387.6    3,224.6    3,328.7    2,704.5    12,424.0
I. Grants                        2,159.3    2,159.3    2,159.3    2,159.3    2,159.3    10,796.6
J. Studies                         103.6      219.8     350.0      371.6     131.5      1,176.5
Total Investment Cost             12,948.7   26,252.2   29,438.0   26,899.5   15,242.6   110,779.0
11. Recuren.t Cost
A Drugs                              0.0    2,749.3    4,181.0    4,240.1    2,867.6    14,038.0
B. Medical Supplies/Materials        0.0     459.4      737.3      788.9     562.7      2,548.2
C. Salaries/Honoraria              115.8     574.6      612.5      636.6     646.1      2,585.6
D. Maintenance
Facilities Maintenance            67.4     135.9      208.5      215.8      82.0       709.6
Vehice Maintenance                 0.0      414.4     564.4      733.3     784.6      2,496.7
Subtotal Maintenance                67.4     550.3      772.9      949.1     866.6      3,206.4
E. Other Operating Cost            431.3     638.0      758.1      777.6     681.7      3,286.7
Total Recurrent Costs                614.4    4,971.6    7,061.8    7,392.3    5,624.8    25,664.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                13,561.1   31,223.8   36,499.8   34,291.7   20,867.5   136,443.9
o N)
a/ ADB expenditure account including obstetric kits (drugs) and micronutrients.
b/ Includes broadcast time for television and radio IEC spots, and publication of IEC materials.                                -



PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Project Components by Financier
(In USS'000)
ADO           AIDAB            EC              KIW           I1RD          Govenuneft         Total
Amount   %    Anoxnrt   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %             Amount    %
A. Service DelNvy
1. Maemal Cam                48,662.7  70.4        -   -          -   -      6,516.8  9.8         -   -    13,134.4  19.8   66,314.0  48.6
2. Ofiw Women's Heat Services      -   -                                     7,591.7  39.1   8,195.9  42.2   3,632.6  18.7   19,420.2  14.2
Subtotal Service Detivery    46,662.7  54.4        -   -           -   -    14,108.5  16.5   8,195.9  9.6   16,767.0  19.5   85,734.2  62.8
B k-sftuuonai Development
1.Traink                           -   -    10,553.2  66.0        -   -           -   -     2,638.7  16.5   2,803.5  17.6   15,993.4  11.7
2. IEC                        6,229.2  81.9        -   -          -   -           -   -           -   -     1,379.0  18.1    7,608.2  5.6
3. Logstcs                         -   -           -   -          -   -           -   -     6,167.4  53.3   5,395.3  48.6   11,562.6  8.5
4. Prcect0liageenwt           1,108.1  80.9        -   -          -   -       126.7  9.3          -   -       134.2  9.8     1,369.0  1.0
SubtothienfMionalDevekopneT  7,337.3  20.1  10,553.2  28.9       -   -       126.7  0.3    8,804.1  24.1   9,711.9  26.6   36,533.2  26.8 ~
C.ContnunltyPwfnershps              -   -           -   -    13,000.0 100.0        -   -           -   -          -   -      13,000.0  9.5
D.Pdky      /OpeArch                -   -           -   -          -   -           -   -     1,000.0  85.0     176.5  15.0    1,176.5  0.9
TotsiPROJECTCOSTS             54,000.0  39.6  10,553.2  7.7   13,000.0  9.5   14,235.3  10.4  18,000.0  13.2  26,655.5  19.6  136,443.9 100.0
0H



PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Procurement Plan for IBRD-Financed Items
Estimated IBRD Financing     % To Be Implemented
Total Cost      Amount             by Year           Method of
Expenditure Category/Item     US$ '000)  %   USS '000)     95  96  97  98  99    Procurement                   Major Activities
1. Civil Works                                                                        LCB        Appoint architect, prepare documentation,
Renovation of Rural Health                                                                   invite bids, award contract, supervise works
Units (72) and Barangay
Health Stations (72)        1,294   70       906       10  40  50   -   -
Warehouse Construction        1,297   70      908        10  50  40   -   -
Warehouse Rehabilitation      1,032   70      722       25  25  25  25   -
2. Goods
Furniture for RHUs/BHSs        146   70       102       10  40  50   -   -         LS        Invite quotations, evaluate, purchase
Medical Equipment
RHUs/BHSs                     387   80       305       10  40  50   -   -      ICB, LCB     Advertise, prepare documentation, invite bids, award contract
Cryotherapy Machines           77   90        69      100   -   -   -   -      IS or DC     Invite quotations and evaluate or negotiate, and purchase
Computer Equipment
RTI Service                     8   90         7      100   -   -   -   -         LS       Invite quotations, evaluate, purchase
Logistics Information System  601   80       481        - 40  30  30   -         ICB        Advertise, prepare documentation, invite bids, award contract
Training Equipment              78  100        78       100   -   -   -   -       IS, LS      Invite quotations, evaluate, purchase
Warehouse Equipment            124   70        87        70  30   -   -   -    LCB, IS, LS    Advertise, prepare documentation, invite bids, award contract
Vehicles
Fork Lift Truck                18  100        18      100   -   -   -   -      IS or LS     Invite quotations, evaluate, purchase
Delivery Vans               2,133  100    2,133         - 100   -   -   -        ICB        Advertise, prepare documentation, invite bids, award contract
Drugs and reagents            6,677  100    6,677         - 20  30  30  30  ICB,LCB,IS,DC   Advertise, prepare documentation, invite bids, evaluate and
negotiate multi-year contracts
3. Services
Consultant Services                                                           Cons. Selection  Short-list, LOI, TORs and draft contract, selection
Architect                     103   70        72       30  30  30  10
Women's Health                 64   90        58      100   -   -   -
Training                      374  100       374        5  25  25  25  20                                                                      >
Logistics                   1,527   90    1,375        25  25  25  15  10                                                                      :
Studies                     1,177   85    1,000        10  20  30  30  10                                                                      x
Training
Women's Health              2,185  100    2,185         - 25  25  25  25
Logistics                     494   90      445        25  35  15  15  10
Total                                       18,000



- 115  -                                      Annex  14
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
IBRD Disbursement Schedule and Profile
lStimated IBRD Disbursements             Disbursement Profile a/
IBRD Fiscal    By Semester   Cumulative   Cumulative           Cumulative    Semesters from
Year/Semester   ---- in US$ million ----  as t of total   as % of total   Approval Date
1995  lat
2nd           0.0          0.0             0                  0
1996  lst           0.5          0.5              3                 3             1
2nd           0.7          1.2             7                  3             2
1997  lst           1.0          2.2            1                  6             3
2nd           1.2          3.4            19                14              4
1998  lt           1.6          5.0            28                 22             5
2nd           1.9          6.9            38                30              6
1999  lat           2.1          9.0             50                42             7
2nd           2.2         11.2            62                50              8
2000  lot           2.4         13.6             76                62             9
2nd           2.4         16.0            89                74             10
2001  lst           2.0         18.0            100                82            11
2nd                                                         86             12
2002  lst                                                          94            13
2nd                                                        100             14
a! Population, Health and Nutrition (PHN) Sector, East Asia and Pacific (ZAP) Region.
Disbursement Graph
100
790
3 70
20-
1 0                                 /07
'~0
*  40-/
o 20  ,       ,           ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,   ,
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001  2002
[BRD Fiscal Year
*    Appraisal Estimate  -       EAP PHN Profile



- 116 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
IBRD Supervision Plan
1.       IBRD Supervision Input.  The staff input indicated in the table on
the following page is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review
of progress reports, procurement actions, supervision report preparation and
correspondence (estimated for this project to require six staff-weeks per year
throughout project implementation).
2.       Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.
(a) Annual work plans and budgets for the project would be prepared by
each central and regional DOH office responsible for implementing
specific project activities, and each participating local government
unit (LGU). The plans and budgets of the central and regional
offices would be reviewed by the appropriate technical and financial
staff of the DOH and the Project Management Office (PMO). The plans
and budgets of the LGUs would be reviewed by the regional field
offices, agreed upon with the DOH, and included in the Project
Implementation Agreements governing LGU participation in the project.
The PMO would consolidate the plans and budgets of the LGUs, the
central and regional DOH offices into an overall annual project plan.
(b) Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared by the PMO in a format
to be agreed upon with IBRD during the project launch mission. The
reports would (i) include a concise, narrative section describing
major project achievements and problems encountered, and (ii) utilize
a simple, tabular account to show details of actual accomplishments
compared to agreed upon plans. The initial progress report would be
due on December 31, 1995, with succeeding reports due on June 30 and
December 31 of each year until project completion. The reports would
constitute the basis for the semi-annual project performance reviews
to be conducted by the Government and IBRD.
(c) Monitoring and reporting of implementation progress in accordance
with the annual plans would be the responsibility of the PMO, with
inputs from the DOH technical services and regional field offices.
The PMO would also be responsible for organizing annual workshops
to review implementation progress with LGUs, which would be timed
to support the annual updating of operational plans and budgets.
(d) The PMO would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for
supervision missions, and for providing information required by
missions. Mission briefings upon arrival and wrap-up meetings would
be presided by the Project Director or a designated representative.
(e) The PMO would prepare and submit to IBRD within six months of the
Closing Date a final evaluation report on the project and a plan for
the future operation of the completed project.



- 117 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 2
3. Field Supervision Plan
Approximate                                                    Staff Input
Dates                    Activity                          (staff-weeks)
05/95       Project launch/initial supervision mission          6
11/95       Semi-annual review mission                          4
05/96       Semi-annual review mission                          4
11/96       Semi-annual review mission                          4
05/97       Semi-annual review mission                           4
11/97       Semi-annual review mission                          4
05/98       Mid-term review mission                              8
11/98       Semi-annual review mission                          4
05/99       Semi-annual review mission                          4
11/99       Final supervision/ICR mission                        8
Note: ICR - Implementation Completion Report
(a) Semi-annual reviews of project performance would be normally be held
in May and November of each year to assess progress in project
implementation.
(b) A comprehensive mid-term review would be completed by June 30, 1998
to determine any need for modifications to the design and
implementation targets of all project components. Particular
attention would be given to accomplishments or difficulties
encountered with the implementation of devolution-related strategies.
(c) Each IBRD supervision mission would: (i) require at least two weeks
in the field; (ii) require the services of specialists in women's
health and project management/implementation on a regular basis;
and (iii) review progress of procurement and civil works, financial
statements and disbursements, Loan covenants, and the implementation
of technical assistance and training activities. Specialized skill
requirements would be added to the missions according to needs
identified by previous supervision missions and would include,
among others, the following: specific areas of women's health
(maternal care, family planning, reproductive tract infections/
sexually transmitted diseases, cervical cancer, breast cancer,
violence against women), life cycle approach to service delivery,
information, education and communication, training, logistics,
research, computerized project management, and monitoring and
evaluation.
(d) At least one of the two semi-annual reviews would be held jointly
with all of the project's cofinanciers, who would provide both
general supervision and additional specialized skills.



- 118 -
Annex 16
Page 1 of 2
PHILIPPINES
WOMEN'S HEALTH AND SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.    Department of Health.  Investing in Eguitv in Health:  Proposed Ten-Year
Public Investment Plan for the Health Sector (1994-2004). Prepared for
presentation to and approval by the NEDA Board. January 1994.
2.    Department of Health.  Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project:
Project ProDosal. July 1994.
3.    Department of Health.  Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project:
Project Implementation Plan. December 1994.
4.    Galvez-Tan, J. (Undersecretary and Chief of Staff, Department of
Health). Notes on the Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project.
June 1994.
5.    Development Academy of the Philippines, Project Development Institute.
Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Program (in three volumes: Main
Report, Organization and Management Study, Annexes). July 1993.
6.    Asian Development Bank.  ReRort and Recommendation of the President to
the Board of Directors on a Proposed Loan to the Reoublic of the
PhiliRpines for the Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project.
October 1994.
7.    Program Development and Review Branch, Australian International
Development Assistance Bureau. PhiliRoines - Integrated Women's Health
Training Project. Feasibility/Design Study: A Sub-Comonent of the
Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project. April 1994.
8.    Whittacker, M.  PhiliRpines Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project:
Interim ReRort of the Technical Assistance Mission (HIV/STD/RTI
SRecialist fof AIDABl).  January 29 - February 5, 1994.
9.    Philippines Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project:  Sexually
Transmitted Diseases and HIV/AIDS. October 1993.
10.   Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project.  Cancer Comoonent.
October 1993.
11.   Kabalikat ng Pamilyang Pilipino Foundation, Inc.  Women's Health and
Safe Motherhood Proiect [Information, Education and Communication
Sub-component]. June 1994.
12.   Clark, M., B. Alano, H. Khajehpour, R. Gutteridge.  PhiliRRines Women's
Health and Safe Motherhood Project: Logistics Report. July 1994.



- 119 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 2
13.   Alano, B.  Private Contractual Arrangements for the Department of Health
Logistics System: A Feasibility Study. August 1994.
14.   United Nations Fund for Population Activities.  Contraceptive
Reguirements and Logistics Management Needs in the Philippines. 1993.
15.   United States Agency for International Development.  USAID Population
Assistance Strategy. 1993-1998: A Formula for Success. June 1993.
16.   Department of Health.  Managing Health Services:  Post-Devolution
Perspectives and Strategies. Prepared for roundtable discussions
among representatives of the DOH management and international donor
organizations at the Asian Development Bank. September 1993.
17.   Taguiwalo, M.  Background Paper on the Public Financing of Health in the
Post-Devolution Era. June 1994.
18.   Taguiwalo, M.  Three Decision SuRport Modules in Central-Local Financing
of Public Investments in Health. Manila, June 1994.
19.   Taguiwalo, M.  Recommendations on Implementing the Women's Health
and Safe Motherhood Project Under the Conditions of Devolution.
February 1994.
20.   Taguiwalo, M.  Women's Health and Safe Motherhood Project:  Issues
in Central-Local Cost Sharing. February 1994.
21.   Enache, M.  Resource Allocation and Cost-Sharing in the Women's Health
and Safe Motherhood Project Using A Decision Suiport Software. Report
presented to the Department of Health. June/July 1994.
22.   Guanzon, R.  DeveloRment and Testing of the Comprehensive Health Care
Agreement. Report completed under the auspices of the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID, Manila), Health Finance
Development Project, and the UPecon Foundation. May 1994.






IBRD 26586
PHILIPPINES
CLASSIF'CAT[ON OF PROVINCES                                                        WOME N'S HEALTH AND
B5 ADMINISTRATVE REGIONS                                                   SAFE MOTHERHOOD PROJECT
I tLOCOS             VI WESTERN VISAYAS                                   I .n    SERVICE DELIVERY COMPOt9NENT
I loo No-e             38 Aklo0
2 llocos S.,           30 COpI                                                         Type of ServIce
3o L.uon               40 Artq-e                               eATANES
4 Pogoson              4 1 lo                                                                   MATERNAL CARE
CORDILLERAA-MINISTRATIVE   42 Negros Occ,decro                         -
REGION (CAR              43 G.o.ro,.                                                               RTl / STDs
5 Aoro          VII CENTRAL VISAYAS
K. Rg ng-Apcyoo      A4- C~ bF,
7 Kol n   Pocoo        45 Negros Or,ecc                            '      ; -            L*--   CERVICAL CANCER
N fugo0                46 Eoho'
9  -eng-.e             4 / Sq-or                              1        Q                         MATERNAL CARE & RTIs / STDs
11 CAGAYAN VALLEY    VilI EASTERN VISAYAS
F 0 Bolcce-              48 Northern Somo-,                                                       MATERNAL CARE & CERVICAL CANCER
II Cogyon               4"2 Weorero Scromr 
1 7  Ooedl               50 Ester- S-omor                         r                       K-I  MATERNAL CARE, RTIs / STDs &
.3 NeO V,coyO           5 1 Leyle                               Sw  ''                            CERVICAL CANCER
I  Qu`-rno              52 Southern Leyt
III CENTRAL LUZON            53 BI,ro-                         I L
I 5 N-oo E ,o      IX  WESTERN MINDANAO                                         iNATIOAL CAPITAL
1                       `oroc  54 Zo-mooongo- I dNore NA          B 8                             N        A   C t
I' 7Z01ob000,1          55 Zorrrbo--go. di So                                 7                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
1 8 Pompo-go            5'. B-sie-
FC Bolo--          X  NORTHERN MINDANAO             i                          -  -               REGION BOUNDARIES
NATIONAL CAPITAL .S-r. de Not,
REGON INCR               SN C-rr.g.r
IV  4 TAGALOr,  59 Ag.- d~~~~ N.q~                                          INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
IV  SOUTHERN TAGALOG         69 Apsom s  NOe1
21 Auroro                6 I M--   --t                               2 L
2'2 Qu--                  2Rooo                                           U     O
23 R-.                                                                                  KILOC4ETERS o           0oo      200        300
24 C-ote                 6-3 Agu-O 6cl S.,I 
24 Lo9ooc          XI SOUTHERN MINDANAO                   20                                    I0
26 bolongos              64 Ooo renld Sur                                                     -MLes o        so ;oo           1So     200
27 Mo, Odu               65 D-o2r-t.
28 M nodoo Grenro        86 Dovoo dc Node
29 Macore Occoenlo       67 Dovoo de Sur                                                        V
30 R-b-          ~~~68 Soulr Coloboro                              2 
30O Rornoon             6xP Soronpon                   /    ,      2,      ~       <    y ~ < * _ S   t  CATANDUANES
3 1P.            ~~~~6 9 Sor-9-g2e.
V  BCOL               XII CENTRAL MINDANAO             /;
32 Comor nes None        70 1000 del Nodte              _  -F
33 Co-pa neS .,          7 1 Sult.,o KAdorcl                  ''                                                PHILIPPINES SEA
34 Ccoroct=uane,       AUTONOMOUS REGION OF                  '                                                  PHILIPPINE5SEA
335 Albo,              MUSLIM MINDANAO iARMM,            IV     29
30 Soco-go               72 Lonoo dc Sur
37 Mosoote               73 Mg.-d-r                   MIrDCRO,
74 Ncoth Cbto.ooo                                                   37                   r-
7 5 Sujl                                               30'_.        rS-|'                AR'
/6 Towtow,                  .                                                        _-
/ _;Jfs x ,.,,\-( - . -,VIII
<         /         -~~ :89 }'      |        m57\n  Q>S
SC)LJTH  CHINAS,
SEA                           1                    /    Vl   14(2        _                  510 |L4_
PAI-Aw,~~~~~~~~~AN
a- / PAI>tAY /t _ < ~~~~~Lf Y'(E g
te  boundorres.  colors.         PALAWAr'                                                                          S V  | S A  YH5  7  -   ~   \  >I| 
.flomlflollonS ond  ony                   ,    -                              V I S  A         S OYOL                   *,,
er jnformol_orf   show,-                                                                 42        A4 2                          1
h, hs mop   do   no?                                                                                     -/   46 I
,ply, or  the  port of                                                            NEGROS                 -
World  Bon.  GrOorP               '31                                                     45
nY 1odprnernt orn COO iegol   ~ '   -                                                                 4 7/                  '(
0tus of ony  terretory       *,,                                                                               S8    .
-ny  endorsement
occeptooce of  -uch        ,    -                             SuIu Sec,                     \                    pO       -
,orndor,es                 ' --                                                                                   f S4 T: 1  ;  X    o3  )64
~~~54 ~~~~~X[63
/1                           2')g t       
nIX N ^  5:lx  -t   0   >  7 2 -            6 G , 4-
._0 -t       M iNsDA,41 0\,\
noNG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1' 1 R-1i  {'4 
556~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
U I   C ,,,,, .                                          ' ~~~~~~~~.~ -  _           _              X
PHILIPPINES                                                                            XtiI
. , ,&._. .. /-ARMM |-
0100.1                                                AR.MMsuLu                    Celebe, Sej
/6 
005.2~~                                     ( o                 I



