Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
4/           0  3 ~~~~~7 -  <
Z-C)A/Ac
Report No. 7482-KO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1989
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



''URRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1.00 - W 680
(February, 1989)
WEIGIITS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September - July
ABBREVIATIONS
CNB      - Citizens National Bank
EMRD     - Electronic Materials Research Division
FRG      - Federal Republic of Germany
ICB      -  International competitive bidding
IFC      -  Internatienal Finance Corporation
ITC      -  Industrial Technology Center
KAIST    - Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KDIC     - Korea Development Investment Company
KERI     - Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute
KIT      - Korea Institute of Technology
KIET     - Korea Institute of Electronics Technology
KTDC     - Korea Technology Development Corporation
MTI      - Ministry of Trade and Industry
MOST     - Ministry of Science and Technology
OBF      - Office of Business and Finance (KIT)
OPM      - Office of Planning and Managemant (KIT)
O&M      - Operation and Maintenance
OSROK    - Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
PCR      - Project Completion Report
PPAR     - Project Performance Audit Review
R&D      - Research and Development
SMI      - Small and Medium Industry
SMIB     - Small and Medium Industry Bank
SMIPC    - Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
SMIPF    -  Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund
TSC      - Technical Services Center (KERI,



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TECHNVLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND  PROJECT  SUMMARY ...................................                          iii
I.   TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT IN  KORE  ............................
A.   Introduction ...........................................                              1
B.  Research  and Development ...............................                              2
C.   Science  and Technology  Education .......................                            3
D.   Small and Medium  Industry ..............................                             6
E. Bank Role in Technology Development and Skills
Advancement ..........................................                            8
II.   THE PROJECT ................................................                              10
A.   Origin of the Project ..................................                             10
B.   Project Rationale, Objectives  and Scope ................                           10
C.   Project Description ....................................                            11
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND iIMPLEMENTATION                              .       .          14
A.   Costs ..................................................                             14
B.   Financing ..............................................                            17
C.   Project Management and Implementation ..................                            18
D.   Environmental  Impact ...................................                           21
E.   Impact on Women ........................................                            21
IV.   BENEFITS AND RISKS .......... ...............................                             21
A.   Benefits ...............................................                            21
B.   Risks ..................................................                            21
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....... ..............                              21
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Korea during May 18 - June 18, 1988 and an appraisal mission consisting of Mr.
Rees (mission leader), Mr. Sung (technical educator, consultant) and
Ms. N. Mattson (project cost analyst) which visited Korea during October 8-22,
1988. The appraisal mission was assisted by Mr. R. de Silva, Senior country
Officer.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used t, recipients only ir the performance    |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



r               - ii.-
TAKILES IN TEXT
3.1 Summary of Project Costs by Component ........................   15
3.2  Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure ..........   16
3.3 Financing Plan ...............................................   17
3.4  Project Expenditure by Procurement Category ..................   19
ANNEXES
1.  Organization Chart - Korea Institute of Technology
2.  Organization Chart - Industrial Technology Center
3.  Organization Chart - Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute
4.  Detailed Project Costs
5.  Project Expenditures by Year and Purpose
6.  Implementation Schedule
7.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File



- iii -
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:     Korea Institute of Technology (KIT)
Industrial Technology Center (ITC)
Korea Electrotechnology Research institute (KERI)
Amount:            US$16.4 million equivalent
Terms:             Payable in 15 years including 5 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate
Cofinanciers:      None
Project
DescriRtion:     The project continues Bank assistance to technology
development in Korea.  Its broad aim is to strengthen the
small and medium industry (SMI) sector in technology
intensive fields and to improve the quality of education in
e center of excellence producing scientists and engineers.
'ae project would finance specialized equipment (base cost
US$16.4 million) and complementary inputs comprising
facilities to house the equipment (US$8.2 million) and the
costs of installation, consumable materials and O&M expen-
ditures (US$1.5 million) for three national institutions
which play important roles in Korea's
industrial/technological development--KIT,ITC and KERI.
The project would: (a) improve the quality of science and
engineering education and research at KIT by permitting
greater focus on experimental and practical work and allow
senior students to participate more fully in faculty
research projects; (b) enhance the ability of ITC to
provide advice and technical services to SMIs through
strengthening basic R&D capacity, improving testing and
inspection services and strengthening capacity to propagate
low-cost automation techniques; and (c) enhance the ability
of KERI to support the development of SMIs in the
electrical industry through upgrading its R&D capacity to
support the development of parts and materials for supply
to major manufacturers.
Benefits & Risks:  The project would raise the quality of science and
engineering education at KIT. This in turn would raise the
quality of inputs to graduate programs and ultimately
benefit technology-intensive industry. The project would
also strengthen the capacity of ITC and KERI to provide



- iv -
technical advice and services to SMIs which would result in
better utilization of scarce technical manpower and improve
the quality of products. The SMIs would serve more
effectively as suppliers of parts and materials to large
enterprises thus reducing imports. The export capacity of
SMIs would also be enhanced. There are no major risks
associated with the project.
Proiect Costs:
Local     Foreign   Total
----- (US$ million) -----
Korea Institute of Technology          2.5         5.4      7.9
Industrial Technology Center           3.7         8.6     12.3
Korea Electrotechnology Research
Institute                            1.9        4.0       5.9
Baseline Cost                     8.1       18.0      26.1
Contingencies
Physical                             0.9         1.8      2.7
Price increase                       0.3        0.9       1.2
Subtotal                          1.2        2.7       3,9
Total Proiect Cost /                93        20.7      30,0
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign   Total
----- (USS million) -----
Government                             9.3         4.3     13.6
IBRD                                   -          16.4     16.4
Total                             93        20.7      30.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY                   1990       199i       1992      1993
---------- (US$ million) ---------
Annual                     5.4        5.8        4.4       0.8
Cumulative                 5.4       11.2       15.6      16.4
Economic Rate
of Return:        Not applicable
MaR'                IBRD No. 21409
/a Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$1.5 million.



K-OR-EA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
I. TECHNOLOGY DEVELOEMENT IN KOREA
A. Introduction
1.1      Korea has experienced remarkable industrial development over the past
quarter century characterized by increasing diversification and strong export
orientation. Manufacturing output grew at about 15% p.a. during 1960-85 and
accounted for 42% of total output by 1985. This rapid industrialization was
based on superior labor productivity and organizational skills and was
focussed initially on light industrial goods such as textiles, apparel,
leather and wood products. In the early 1970s, policies shifted towards
deepening Korea's industrial base through emphasis on heavy and chemical
industries. As exports in the traditional, labor intensive industries started
to decline, the 1980s have seen another shift in industrial policy towards
technology-intensive development in electronics, transportation equipment and
fine chemicals. The industrial restructuring policy aims to develop and
utilize technology to the fullest in order to gain continued improvements in
labor productivity and to expand high value added output which is technologi-
cally sophisticated, energy efficient and strongly export-oriented.
1.2      Underlying these developments has been a strong commitment by the
Government to technology promotion. This has been achieved through the rapid
development of R&D capacity by means of expanding higher education institu-
tions for training scientists and technologists and the development of
national research institutes--nine of which now exist. At the same time
incentives were provided to the private sector to expand R&D expenditures (tax
incentives, accelerated depreciation etc.) with the result that its share of
total R&D expenditures had risen to two-thirds by 1985 compared with less than
one quarter in 1970. The Government has also made a strong commitment to the
development of small and medium industries (SMIs) to play a pivotal role in
expanding the industrial base. An enhanced role for SMIs will reduce indus-
trial concentration and the reliance of large enterprises on imported parts
and materials, improve regional growth, expand employment and increase
exports.
1.3      These policy trends help to identify three major areas of critical
importance to Korea's industrial transformation. First, the need to continue
to upgrade R&D if Korea is to retain its competitive edge in export markets;
second, the need to progressively upgrade and restructure skill mix
requirements to ensure that skills are relevant to the demands of an
increasingly technology-intensive market; and third, the promotion of SMIs as
suppliers of basic materials and parts to larger industrial enterprises and as
self-reliant export industries. The proposed project will assist in achieving
the Government's objectives in all three areas.



- 2 -
B. Reset±cch and Development
1.4      The growtn of R&D in Korea was led by the establishment of a number
of public sector research institutes from the mid-sixties to the late-
seventies. These institutes were estal.ished to concentrate scarce technolo-
gical manpower and optimize its Ltilization, strengthen the technological
infrastructure and as centers of excellence to stimulate R&D, provide techni-
cal advice and services to industry and to encourage the return of Korean
scientists and engineers working overseas. By 1981, sixteer institutes had
been established and these were reduced to nine in a rationalization program
to optimize the use of research staff and equipment. The R&D effort, which
initially was largely government-financed, became increasingly private as tax
and other financial incentives began to make an impact in the late 1970s. By
1980, nearly 50% of R&D expenditures were undertaken by the private sector and
this proportion had reached 66% by 1985. This growth is reflected in the
development of private R&D institutes which increased from 43 in 1979 to 455
in 1987.   Total R&D expenditure has increased dramatically from 0.6% of GNP
in 1980 to 2% in 1986 and is planned to reach 3% by 1991 and 5% by 2001.
1.5      The universities have also played an important, if subsidiary, role
in the growth of R&D activities. While the universities have a preponderance
of graduate R&D manpower, limited research funds have kept per capita research
spending at only about one-quarter that of industry and one-sixth that of the
research institutes. Financial constraints have also led to shortages of
research equipment which have hampered both the quantity and quality of
research. The result of resource constraints in the universities compared
with the more generous endowments in industry and in the research institutes
has been a bias in favor of applied rather than basic research. This has
clearly had short term benefits for industry, especially in the export
sectors, but a long term commitment to expanding and improving basic research
is the key to sustained technological development. This has been recognized
by the Government in its priority to build up a small number of graduate
institutions as centers of excellence in research, comparable to the Korea
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) (para. 1.14). Emphasis
is being placed on recruiting top-level research scientists a.d engineers and
providing state-of-the-art research facilities.
1.6      The growth of R&D efforts has been impressive and Korea now compares
favorably with industrialized countries in terms of the proportion of GNP
allocated to R&D. However several problems are evident. First, in spite of a
rapid expansion of R&D manpower, which nearly tripled in 1980-86, the number
of Korean researchers per ten thousand population was little more than one
third the number in Japan and the United States. The Government plans to
raise the ratio of scientists and engineers from 13 per 10,000 population in
1986 to 30 per 10,000 by 2001, a level comparable to that of the U.S. and
Japan in 1985. To achieve this goal, Korea will need to employ about 150,000
scientists and engineers by 2001 compared with 52,000 in employment in 1986.
This will require the continued rapid expansion of enrollments in science and
engineering programs especially at the graduate level together with a strong
commitment to improving the quality of graduates. Quality has emerged as a
crucial problem and is being addressed through programs to modernize equip-
ment, upgrade teaching staff and reduce teaching loads and teacher/student
ratios (para. 1.14). At the graduate level, the move to develop a small



number of institutions as centers of excellence will raise the standards of
teaching and produce better quality graduates. These efforts are being assis-
ted under the Bank's Second Education Sector Loan (Loan 2427-KO).
1.7      Second, although the public research institutes have served a useful
purpose as a training ground for researchers who ultimately work in industry,
their ability to meet industry's growing and complex technical needs has been
limited by inadequate staffing and outdated equipment.  Only a sma'l percen-
tage of industry's R&D is contracted to the institutes despite encouragement
from the Government. Furthermore, the research institutes have not been able
to offer systematic technical advice and services to industry, especially the
SMIs, which are most in need of such services. To strengthen the link between
industry and the public research institutes, the Government has introduced a
program of "National Projects" to develop broad technological infrastructure
in priority areas such as semiconductors, computers, fine chemicals, materials
science etc.   The National Project scheme includes industry-initiated
research projects which are mainly joint ventures between SMIs and an insti-
tute. The program was funded at US$111 million in 1986 with nearly one half
being financed by the private sector. To ensure sound selection and implemen-
tation, projects are appraised by the Korea Technology Development Corporation
(KTDC) which is the beneficiary of three Bank loans (Loans 2122-KO, 2473-KO,
2913-KO).
1.8      Third, Government policy to encourage R&D investments by industry has
emphasized the need to create suitable financing mechanisms for R&D
activities, especially for SMIs.   In response to this, recent legislation has
been passed to pro,7ide venture capital for the formation of SMIs viz. the
Small and Medium Industry Inauguration Assistance Act and the Venture Business
Financial Support Act. These acts responded in particular to the perceived
weakness of the component industries serving key industrial subsectors such as
electronics and automobiles, which are heavily dependent on imported parts and
materials. The first act builds upon the successful experience of KTDC to
foster the formation of private venture capital companies to stimulate the
establishment of new industrial firms. Nineteen financing companies now exist
and they invested US$42 million in 208 companies in.1987.  The second act was
enacted to promote the use of new instruments and new sources of financing for
technology development including expanded use of conditional loans and equity
investments.
C. Science and Technology Education
1.9      Education has played a major role In Korea's development as the
country sought first to create a literate population and then to develop
highe- levels of education and skills as a basis for rapid economic growth.
Consequently, in the decades after independence in 1948, the education system
grew rapidly with enrollments increasing 2.5 times between 1960 and 1987. As
a result, nine years of compulsory education has been achieved, over 80% of
the secondary age group (12-17 years) is enrolled and about 40% of the 18-22
years age group are attending post-secondary institutions. Such a rapid
expansion inevitably led to a decline in the quality of education, especially
in the overcrowded urban areas, and the 1970s saw the beginning of an era of
consolidation and qualitative improvement. Teacher training was improved and
expanded, class sizes reduced and curricula upgraded. These improvements were



- 4 -
facilitated in the primary and middle schools in the 1980s by declining
enrollment levels due to falling population growth rates. The quality
im?rovement programs are still being implemented and higher levels of student
achievement are being recorded.
1.10     Education at the secondary and higher levels in Korea has always
borne a close relationship to the development of the economy, especially its
emphasis on industrial growth and restructuring. In the 1960s, when labor
intensive light industries required large numbers uf skilled workers, enroll-
ments in vocational and technical schools increased rapidly. The change of
emphasis to heavy and chemical industries in the seventies shifted demand to
higher technical education and enrollments grew accordingly in junior
vocational colleges (for training technicians) and science and technology
programs in the universities. At the same time, enrollments in the vocational
and technical schools started to decline as the demand for manpower shifted to
higher skill levels. The development of technology-intensive industry in the
1980s has led to the expansion of graduate programs in science and technology
while enrollments in the junior vocational colleges and in undergraduate
programs have levelled off. The latter is due partly to a change in the
structure of manpower demand but also to a realization that the rapid expan-
sion of the seventies and eighties had led to a deterioration of quality in
higher education.  Thus consolidation and quality improvement were called for
rather than continued expansion of undergraduate programs.
1.11     The foundation of education in science and technology is to be found
in the 800 general high schools which offer science majors comprising mathe-
matics and the natural sciences. There are also five specialized science high
schools with a total enrollment of about 700. These elite schools were estab-
lished to discover gifted children in science and to educate them in a
rigorous academic environment. Admission is highly competitive and early
entry to university is permitted for the best students. However in the
general high schools, the overall quality of science education is still a
cause for concern. Class sizes, of around 50 students, are too high; too
little time is devoted to practical work with the result that experimentation
skills are weak; course work remains test-oriented, focussing on the rote
learning necessary to pass the aptitude tests for university entrance; and
many science teachers lack adequate training in their subjects. These issues
are crucial because it is in the secondary schools that the foundation for the
higher study of science and technology is established and weaknesses here are
carried through to the universities. This has been recognized by the
Government and the problems are being addressed through a comprehensive
improvement program. A new experiment-oriented curriculum is being introduced
and university entrance is being broadened to include high school grades in
addition to aptitude test scores; a retraininlg and upgrading program for
science teachers is being implemented and laboratory assistants are being
recruited to assist teachers in laboratory work; laboratory facilities are
being expanded and re-equipped. The Korea National University of Teacher
Education has been established to train high level science educators and to
serve as a center for innovation and research in teacher education. These
efforts are being assisted under the second education sector loan
(Ln. 2427-KO).



. .1:    A l'okt lt? colleges and universities offer degree programs in science
and1 tti'inolofv witti enrollments of about 360,000.  This represents about 36%
of total unldergiaduate enrollments.  At the graduate level, about 19,000
students are enrolled in science and technology programs which represents
about 27% of total graduate enrollments. At tU: apex of science and techno-
logy education is the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology which
was established in 1970 as a center of excellence for graduate education and
research in science and technology. KAIST has achieved its planned preeminent
status by attracting the highest quality faculty and researchers, including
many repatriated Koreans, to well equipped and financed laboratories. KAIST
is at present being restructured with the teaching part being transferred to a
new campus at Daeduk Science Town while research activities remain at the
existing campus in Seoul. However, research by faculty at Daeduk wi'll
continue to receive appropriate emphasis in order to attract top-quality
faculty to Daeduk. To date, KAIST has graduated over 5200 students with
higher degrees including nearly 500 with doctorates.
1.13     KAIST will draw talented students increasingly from the Korea
Institute of Technology (KIT) which was established in 1986 as a center of
excellence for the undergraduate education of scientifically gifted students.
When fully enrolled, KIT will have about 2000 students. Entry is highly
competitive with a significant proportion of the entering class of 540 being
drawn from the science high schools. Most students are oriented towards
graduate school - a recent study indicated that about 80% intended to pursue
further study mainly at KAIST. Thus there is a discernible link developing
between the elite institutions which draw highly talented students from the
science high schools through KIT to KAIST. The Government is looking to these
graduates to staff the graduate schools and research institutes in the future
and to provide the leadership for the continued development of high technology
processes.
1.14     Nevertheless, in spite of much progress, higher education is not free
of problems. The rapid expansion of the seventies and eighties brought to
higher education the same problems of declining quality as afflicted the
school system. This was especially so in science and technology programs
which are heavily dependent on properly equipped and up-to-date laboratories
and highly trained faculty. Quality varies widely among the 100 higher insti-
tutions offering science and technology programs but standards are high in
only a handful of leading universities. Elsewhere, qualified faculty are in
short supply leading to heavy teaching loads, student/teacher ratios are too
high (e.g. averaging 38:1 in engineering colleges), expenditures on facilities
and equipment have not kept pace with enrollments and faculty research funds
are limited. The Government is addressing these issues by expanding faculty
recruitment to reach an average student/teacher ratio of 20:1 and an average
weekly teaching load of 10 hours by 1990, increasing research funds and
upgrading laboratories. In addition, the Government has targeted a small
number of graduate schools to be developed to standards similar to KAIST's to
support the momentum in the growth of technology-intensive industry in Korea.
Support for these efforts is being given under Loan 2427-KO.



- 6 -
D. Small and Medium Industry
1.15     Korea's spectacular economic growth has been lad by & relatively
small number of conglomerates which dominate the economy--the dozen leading
groups currently account for nearly one-quarter of GNP. Large enterprises
have spearheaded the export dr-Te and the rapid development of R&D activities
which underlie it. In contrast is the small and medium industry (SMI) 1/
sector which comprises over 50,000 enterprises, employs the majority of
industrial workers and makes a significant contribution to manufacturing value
added. Tne major light industries in the SMI sector are textiler (accounting
for 21% of the total SMI value added) and food (12%) while the heavy and
chemical industries are machinery (24%) and chemical products (18%). SMIs
dominate in such subsectors as wood products and furniture, paper products and
printing, non-metallic minerals and other manufactured goods, contributing
more than half of each subsector's value added. As might be expected, there
is also concentration in the SKI sector--enterprises which employ more than 50
workers account for about 15% of establishments but produce 70% of the SMI
sector's total value added.
1.16     The role of small and medium industry in the Korean economy
experienced a period of decline in the sixties and seventies but the trend has
now been reversed. In 1963, SMIs employed 62% of the manufacturing workforce
and generated 50% of value added; by 1975 this had declined to 46% of
employment and 32% of value added. This decline was due in part to the growth
ef successful SMIs into large-scale enterprises but more importantly to
Government policies which favored large enterprises and hampered the access of
SMIs to credit, financial incentives and other necessary resources. A cl,ange
in Government policies in the mid-seventies has reversed this trend. The SMI
sector has gradually recovered lost ground and by 1984 SMIs accounted for 55%
of manufacturing employment and 36% of value added.
1.17     The Government's objectives in promoting SMIs in Korea's industrial
development are set out in the Sixth Plan (1987-1991) and are based on several
considerations. First, there are considerable efficiency gains to be achieved
through the vertical integration of SMIs in the productive process as
suppliers of parts and materials to large-scale enterprises. Traditionally,
the large enterprises have manufactured their own parts and materials or
imported them, especially in such major industrial subsectors as electronics,
machinery, automobiles and shipbuilding. The development of SMIs as specia-
lized suppliers will broaden the technological base of industry, expand the
employment of technical manpower and improve local self-sufficiency and the
balance of payments through the replacement of imports. Second, the expansion
of SMIs will contribute to the strategy of balanced regional development.
Small scale industry is at present heavily concentrated in the Seoul and Pusan
areas and the Government is developing special regional industrial estates to
encourage the decentralization of industry. The SMIs, through their flexi-
bility in scaling outputs and their less complex infrastructure requirements,
lend themselves more easily to the dispersal of industrial activities. Third,
the need to develop technology-intensive industries has been felt increasingly
in Korea in order to continue to improve international competitiveness. With
their adaptability to changing technology and market conditions, technology-
An SMI enterprise is generally defined in terms of both employment size
(less than 500 omployees) and assets (less than Won 4 billion).



intensive SMIs are expected to play a dynamic role in the drive for increasing
sophistication in the Korean manufacturing sector. This process of
technology-deepening will complement the process of technology-broadening
mentioned above.
1.18     In support of the SMI sector, the Government has established an
elaborate legal and policy framework to identify promising enterprises with
high growth potential, increase financial assistance, strengthen the linkage
between SMIs and large-scale industry and improve product quality. Within
this framework, the role of SMIs in industrial development will be signifi-
cantly enlarged in the Sixth Plan period. The average annual growth rate of
the SMI sector is projected at 11% during the period compared with 8% for the
total manufacturing sector. The share of SMIs in the manufacturing sector's
total investment is projected to increase from 30% in 1986 to 42% during
1987-lq9l. In order to achieve the substantial increase in the contribution
of the SMIs to investment, the Government will need to sustain its
institutional support and increase financial resources available to the SMIs.
1.19     In order to develop leaders with high growth potential in the SMI
sector, the Government introduced a small-business "incubator" program in
1983. Each year about 1,000 SMI enterprises have been selected for special
Government assistance in the form of increased consulting services and access
to a special US$ 250 million soft loan fund. The program, run by the Ministry
of Trade and Industry (MTI), has been a success at least in terms of its
contribution to exports. Enterprises selected for the program increased
exports by 34% p.a. during 1983-86 compared with an increase of 12% p.a. for
all SMIs.
1.20     The financing of a major part of SMI credit is the responsibility of
several specialized institutions. In addition to the venture capital
companies (para. 1.8), a special promotion fund and two specialized banks
service the SMIs. The Small and Medium Industry Promotion Fund (SMIPF) was
established by the Government to address the imbalance in access to long-term
credit which had favored large-scale enterprises in the 1970s. By 1984, the
SMIPF accounted for about 10% of the total SKI investment financing. Long-
term credit is also provided by the Small and Medium Industry Bank (SMIB) and
the Citizens National Bank (CNB). The SMIB serves small and medium enter-
prises while the CNB serves only small enterprises (less than 100 employees)
as well as household consumers.   The two banks finance about half of the
SMIs' long-term capital requirements. Short-term financing is provided mainly
by the commercial banks which are required to allocate about a quarter of
their incremental lending to SMIs. About 75% of short-term SMI loans out-
standing in 1984 were financed by commercial banks.
1.21     The conglomerates, which dominate Korean manufacturing are vertically
integrated and produce a high proportion of the domestically-produced parts
and materials. Consequently, the link with SMIs as subcontractors is poorly
developed in Korea. Many subcontractors are small, operate with inadequate
facilities, lack adequate managerial and technical skills and are often
subject to disadvantageous arrangements with the prime contractors. The
Government has recognized that subcontracting is critical to the efficient
development of manufacturing since the competitiveness of large end-producers
and of the subsectors as a wnole depends heavily on close working relation-
ships with suppliers of parts and materials. To strengthen these links, the



Government has enacted laws to promote subcontracting including specifying
various parts to be manufactured exclusively by subcontractors and designating
certain contracting subsectors to receive intensified technical assistance and
credit.
1.22     The successful integration of SMIs as suppliers of parts and
materials requires a significant improvement in the quality of their products.
Traditionally, SMIs have suffered from lack of technical expertise and limited
access to credit.  The situation has improved as the technical education
system has expanded and credit improved through a number of special Government
initiatives. The Government is also committed to providing institutional
support for SMIs to facilitate their ability to absorb and use productively
new technological improvements. There is also a need to resolve common tech-
nological problems such as metal forming and casting, automation etc. which
cannot be resolved by individual SMIs. This requires improved technical
advice and services from the Government and the R&D institutions. In addi-
tion, raising product quality will require strengthening quality control and
certification processes in the SMIs.
E. Bank Role in Technology Development and Skills Advancement
1.23     The Bank has supported technology development through direct assis-
tance in promoting R&D as well as through an active dialogue with Government
on technology policy and institutional issues. The Bank's first direct
involvement in technology development was in 1979 with Bank financing for the
Electronics Technology Project (Loan 1676-K0) which aimed at strengthening the
capacity of the Korea Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) to lead
industry in acquiring and developing semiconductor technologies and provide
support services in R&D, technical training and the identification of overseas
mar'-et opportunities. The draft project completion report (PCR) for the
project indicates that the rapid development of the private semiconductor
industry in the early 1980s largely obviated the need for the services that
KIET aimed to supply. As a result, KIET did not become a profit-making, self-
financing institution with a leadership role as envisaged at appraisal.
Nevertheless, the PCR concludes that KIET probably did play a useful catalytic
role in showing the Korean electronics industry that the acquisition of
advanced technologies and capabilities was feasible.
1.24     Assistance to the electronics industry was followed by two projects
which provided direct support for strengthening SMIs. Loan 2215-K0 assisted
the Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation (SMIPC) in expanding tech-
nical assistance and training services to SMIs in the machinery subsectors and
in the provision of credit to SMIs through several financial intermediaries.
The credit component was not fully disbursed due to the availability of local
credit at more competitive rates. However, the technical assistance and
training components were implemented satisfactorily. Preparation of a PCR for
this project is about to commence. Loan 2515-K0 is providing further support
to SMIPC's technical assistance and training activities, expanded and improved
credit services and the strengthening of subcontracting arrangements between
SMIs and large contractors.
1.25     Three loans to KTDC (Loans 2122-K0, 2473-K0, 2913-KO) sought to fill
a gap in the financial system by providing assistance for risky technology-



intensive industrial R&D projects. The IFC has also made an investment in the
Korea Development Investment Company (KDIC), a venture capital company which
invests, inter alia, in the commercialization of new technology. These
technology-financing projects are in line with Bank recommendations to move
industrial policy away from one in which the Government takes the lead in
"picking winners" towards one which emphasizes intervention in functional
areas such as R&D and the development of SMI and venture capital, where market
imperfections and externalities exist.
1.26     The Bank has provided more general support for financing industrial
development through three loans to the Korea Long-Term Bank, one loan to the
Korea Development Bank and one to SMIB.2Z/ The project performance audit
reports (PPARs) for these proiects conclude in all cases that the Bank's
objectives of resource transfer and institution building were achieved
satisfactorily. Underlying these operations, the continued dialogue between
the Bank and the Government on Korea's industrial development has resulted in
the preparation of a number of important reports including Managing Korea's
Industrial Transition (Report No. 6138-KO; July 31, 1986). This report helped
the Government think through its program for trade and financial sector
liberalization as well as industrial policy.
1.27     To complement direct assistance and financial and institutional
support for technology development, the Bank has financed six loans to assist
the development of technical manpower. The restructuring of industry towards
more skill-intensive, high-technology production requires the continuous
expansion and upgrading of technical skills. Bank lending in education has
closely parallel.ed the increasing sophistication of the Korean economy. The
Bank's initial involvement in the sector under four loans/credits, focussed on
the development of vocational and technical education at the secondary and
postsecondary levels to build a firm base to the system for producing techni-
cal manpower. PPARs for these projects concluded that they were in general
well-conceived and successfully implemented. The reports also concluded that
future projects would benefit from: (a) advanced project preparation before
approval; (b) improved local management procedures to expedite procurement;
and (c) greater focus on policy-analysis and evaluation. These lessons were
built into the two subsequent operations which were policy-oriented sector
loans.
1.28     The first of the education sector loans (Loan 1800-KO), concentrated
on upgrading junior technical colleges and university colleges of engineering
and management through the supply of equipment, staff development and institu-
tional improvements in curriculum development, manpower planning, equipment
maintenance and academic accreditation. The draft PPAR for the loan indicates
that the major lessons learnt were: (a) a stable and responsible sector
management agency was the key to successful implementation of the sector
program; (b) the sector approach led to a quicker and more sustainable
development of institutional capabilities; and (c) the additional time
required for preparation was repaid in terms of more efficient implementation.
The second sector loan (Loan 2427-KO), which incorporates these lessons, is
supporting improvements in graduate education in science and engineering,
upgrading secondary school and college science programs, expanding graduate
2/ Respectively Loans 735-KO; 904-KO; 1145-KO; 1095-KO and 1175-KO.



- 10 -
research programs and improving sector management, manpower monitoring and
strengthening the financial base of private educational institutions. Imple-
mentation of the loan is proceeding satisfactorily. The Bank's positive role
in Korea's education sector is documented in the OED report titled Review of
the Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development il Korea (Report
No. 5950; December 4, 1985).
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Proiect
2.1      The Government included the project in its FY89 list of projects
suitable for external financing and formally asked the Bank for assistance in
December 1987. In the same month a Bank mission identified the project. Most
of the preparation work was completed by the CGvernment according to informa-
tion requested by the Bank. The project was preappraised in May-June 1988 and
appraised in October 1988.
B. Proiect Rationale. Objectives and Scope
2.2      The Bank has been assisting technological development in Korea over
the past decade in a series of operations which have been consistent with the
Government's priorities (paras. 1.23-1.28). The Bank inter alia has provided
direct support to SMIs and substantial assistance in financing risky R&D
projects; majo. assistance has also been provided for the development of
technical and scientific education including two sector loans which have
contributed significantly to developing a sound policy environment in the
sector. The proposed project continues support in these areas by addressing
the needs of three national institutions which the Government has identified
as requiring additional quality-improving investments and which the Bank, with
its long experience of assistance to education and technology development in
Korea, is well-qualified to provide. Furthermore, since Bank exp rience in
lending for technology development is relatively limited, the project offers
an opportunity for the Bank to learn lessons from the Korean experience which
can be utilized elsewhere.
2.3      The broad aim of the project is to continue to strengthen the
development of SMIs in technology intensive sectors by enhancing the capacity
of two R&D institutions to provide technical support to SMIs; the project
would also improve the quality of education in a center of excellence in
science and engineering education. The project would assist in strengthening
Korea's ability to retain its competitive edge in export markets, contribute
to providing high-level skills which are relevant to an increasingly
technology-intensive market and support the development of SMIs as suppliers
of basic parts and materials. More specifically, the project would finance
specialized equipment through the Bank and complementary inputs (mainly civil
works) to be financed by the Government to:
(a) improve the quality of science and engineering education and research
at KIT by permitting greater focus on experimental and practical work
and to allow senior students to participate more fully in faculty
research projects;



- 11 -
(b) enhance the ability of the Industrial Technology Center (ITC) to
provide advice and technical services to SMIs through strengthening
basic R&D capacity, improving quality testing and inspection services
and strengthening capacity to propagate low-cost automation
techniques; and
(c) enhance the ability of the Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute
(KERI) to support the development of SMIs in the electrical industry
through upgrading its R&D capacity to support the development of
parts and materials for supply to major manufacturers.
C. Project Description
Korea Institute of Technology (Estimated baseline cost US$7.9 million)
2.4      KIT was established in 1986 as a center of excellence for the under-
graduate teaching of science and engineering. It has an intake capacity of
540 students and when fully enrolled in 1989, it will have about 2,000
students. Entering students are of high quality with a significant proportion
coming from among the best students in the specialized science high schools.
The remaining students, who are drawn from general high schools must be in the
top 10% of their class. All candidates must take an entrance examination and
there is a 3:1 application-to-entry ratio. About 10% of enrollments are
female and KIT is giving special emphasis to enlarging female enrollment.V.
The student/faculty ratio is a satisfactory 10:1. Most of the faculty are
repatriated Koreans, trained overseas and are of high quality. In areas where
staff lack industrial experience, adjunct professors are employed as part-time
teachers drawn from industry. In order to keep staff skills and knowledge up
to date, about 10% of staff are sent overseas for training annually.   This is
financed from KIT's recurrent budget.
2.5      KIT has three schools of engineering (electrical, mechanical and
applied), a school of natural sciences and a department of humanities.
Courses are of four years duration and about 20% of course work is in the
humanities including languages. A detailed organization chart is included in
Annex 1. Early specialization has been avoided by having a common first year
covering humanities and basic science/math courses. Practical work in the
laboratory and workshop is emphasized and all graduates in applied eligineering
must have completed eight weeks of work experience in industry. This
experience is optional for other engineering programs. Although an under-
graduate institution, KIT places considerable emphasis on research and has
three affiliated research institutes for robotics, mathematics and the educa-
tion of scientifically-gifted students. Basic research is undertaken within
the institution and also in association with outside institutions, especially
KAIST which is currently moving from Seoul to a campus adjacent to KIT.
Because KIT has no graduate students, senior students are being given
increasing opportunities for direct involvement in research projects. A
recent survey indicated that about 80% of KIT's students wished to pursue
graduate degrees at KAIST after graduation.
i/ Female enrollment in undergraduate courses in science and engineering
Korea-wide is 15.7% with 40.4% in natural sciences and 4.2% in
engineering.



- 12 -
2.6      Physical facilities at KIT are about 95% complete with the remaining
dormitory and laboratory facilities scheduled for completion by 1990. Labora-
tories are partly equipped. It is estimated that about US$13 million of
equipment has been installed out of a total program of US$24 million. The
proposed project would finance US$5.4 million of equipment (excluding contin-
gencies), thus meeting about half the cost of the remaining equipment require-
ments of about US$11 million. The items of equipment have been reviewed in
the rigorous internal review system at KIT and are relevant to the institu-
tion's priority needs. Bank financed equipment would be placed partly in
existing laboratories and partly in plan~ied new facilities. It is estimated
that new construction to house Bank-financed equipment would cost about US$1.9
million plus contingencies. The project would also finance the costs of
transportation and installation of equipment, consumable materials and O&M
expenditures associated with the equipment.
Industrial Technology Center (Estimated baseline cost US$12.3 million)
2.7      ITC's major objectives are to strengthen the foundation of industrial
technology through R&D activities and to provide technical advice and
services to the SMIs. Since large-scale enterprises mostly undertake their
own R&D functions, the R&D efforts of ITC are largely directly towards small
and medium iL.-lustries. These efforts involve the design of new products which
can be manufactured by SMIs with payment of royalties to ITC. ITC also
provides technical advice to SMIs aimed at raising their productivity espe-
cially through the introduction of low cost automation processes. In the
field of services, ITC plays an important role in testing the performance of
products and certifying their quality. ITC is responsible for testing
products for the Office of Industrial Promotion which issues the "Korean
Standards" stamp certifying that a product has met exacting standards of per-
formance. The latter are particularly important for export products and, to
maintain an understanding of international standards, ITC maintains official
relations with a number of overseas standards agencies. Thus ITC has a direct
effect on raising the quality of SMI products which are mainly components
targeted for sale to large manufacturers. This raises the competitiveness of
local component producers ane over time will reduce imports of components.
Royalties and fees for the above services account for about 60% of the annual
budget of ITC and this proportion is gradually increasing.
2.8      ITC has a professional/technical staff of 251, growing at about 5%
p.a. ITC has a well-defined overseas training program for 1988-91 of about 12
study years financed mainly by UNIDO, the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG)
and Japan. FRG's component includes 4-6 study-years for the promotion of SMIs
and 2 study-years for dies and molds engineering training. A technical assis-
tance program providing about six staff-years of overseas experts in dies and
molds technology is also financed by the FRG. These programs support the main
thrust of ITC's R&D activities in materials casting and moulding which aim at
a more economical use of metals and other materials such as plastics and
polymers. ITC's operations are grouped in seven departments (Annex 2) of
which five are the focus of ROD and testing activities.V/  High quality dies
§/ Mechanical, Electrical and Standards Testing and Research Departments;
Precision Machines Department; Castings Research Department.



- 13 -
and molds are developed in the Precision Machines Department for use by SMIs
(or large enterprises) and the design and quality of cast products improved in
the Castings Research Department. The Enterprise Support Department assists
SMIs to assimilate new technology and to improve productivity through automa-
tion. The Export Certification Department ensures that products for export
meet international standards (para. 2.7).
2.9      The items of equipment to be financed under the project (US$7.0 mil-
lion excluding contingencies) have been reviewed within ITC, taking into
account existing equipment and are appropriate to the operations and activi-
ties of ITC. Basic R&D in dies and molds in the Precision Machines Department
would be supported by US$1.3 million (19%) of equipment. Foundry equipment
(US$0.9 million or 13%) would be supplied to the Casting Research Department.
Quality certification would be improved in the three Testing and Research
Departments through the provision of US$2.8 million (40%) of equipment.
Foreign quality certification would be improved (US$1.2 million or 17%) and
support for ITC's ability to assist in the development of low cost automation
techniques would be enhanced by the provision of US$0.8 million (11%) of
equipment. Project-financed equipment would be placed in several locations.
ITC is planning a new building on the present campus due for completion in
early 1990, with about 70% of its floor area devoted to laboratories for
research, development and testing. These facilities would house about US$2.5
million o.L project-financed equipment and are estimated to cost US$4.2
million. Two additional buildings with an estimated total cost of US$0.3
million would be built to house the EMC Anechoic Chamber (US$1.1 million) and
the Explosion Proof Testing System (US$0.5 million). The remaining equipment
(US$2.9 million) would be housed in existing buildings at ITC. The total cost
of civil works related to the project is US$4.5 million excluding
contingencies. The project would also finance the costs of transportation and
installation of equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures related
to the equipment.
Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute (Estimated baseline cost
US$5.9 million)
2.10     KERI was established in 1976 to serve the research and development
needs of the electrical manufacturing industry and the electric power genera-
tion and distribution system. The more efficient utilization of electrical
power is also within its responsibilities. KERI has a highly qualified staff
of 273 of which nearly half have graduate degrees. A staff training program
finances about five staff members annually to pursue doctorates and upgrades
about six per annum to the bachelor's level. The organization of KERI is
shown in Annex 3. Five operations divisions and three specialized centers
form the core of KERI's activities which cover research and testing in power
systems and the development of electrical materials. It is in the latter
field that Bank-financed equipment will be concentrated. The outreach arm of
KERI which provides technical assistance to the electrical industry is the
Technical Services Center (TSC) which includes a technical information
library. The TSC is supported by the other divisions and centers which
provide technical advice and support to industry. Such technical assistance,
organized by TSC in conjunction with the other divisions, includes field
support and in-factory assistance, test analysis, technical training, techni-



- 14 -
cal information and support for the design and production of new or improvea
products. Income from these services accounts for about 62% of KERI's 8.nnual
budget. A long-term development plan for KERI calls for full self-financing
to be achieved by 2001.
2.11     KERI services the whole oE the electrical industry but is increas-
ingly focusing on SMIs as producers of basic materials and parts for the large
manufacturers. The SMI sector producing intermediate products is not well
developed in the Korean electrical industry with the result that the industry
is increasingly dependent on imports of materials and parts. The ratio of
import dependence has increased from a low of 42% in 1984 to 53% in 1986.
Priority is therefore being given to the development of KERI's basic R&D capa-
city to develop basic materials for manufac -ing of electrical parts in the
SMIs.  This effort is focused in the Electr1%. Materials Research Division
(EMRD) which would be the recipient of the Bank-financed equipment. The EMRD
currently has a staff of 27, all with graduate degrees. Staffing is being
expanded to a full complement of 49 professionals of which 90% will have
graduate degrees. EMRD is currently supporting a wide range of R&D activities
in association with SMIs including the study of heat treatment in ceramics
development, design of improved power relays and contacts and the development
of new contact materials.
2.12     The project would include US$4.0 million of equipment (excluding
contingencies) for the EMRD to be financed by the Bank. The equipment list
has been reviewed and approved by the Research Review and Appraisal Committee
of KERI to ensure its relevance to the future needs of electrical materials
R&D. The EMRD is expanding its three laboratories to five. The present
Insulating Materials Laboratory will be split into polymer and ceramics insu-
lating materials laboratories. Similarly the Conductive and Magnetic
Materials Laboratory will be split into conductive and magnetic materials
laboratories. The fifth laboratory is for cryogenics research and will retain
its present structure. New buildings are planned for the expansion of EMRD
and will be completed in 1989-90. The new laboratory space for the installa-
tion of project equipment is estimated to cost US$1.4 million excluding
contingencies. The project would also finance the costs of transportation and
installation of equipment, consumable materials and O&M expenditures related
to the equipment.
III. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$30.0 million equiva-
lent net of duties and taxes. The estimated cost by project component is
summarized in Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2. Detailed
costs by component and category are given in Annex 4 and project expenditure
by year and purpo_e in Annex 5.



- 15 -
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Won Billion              USS Million         as % of
Local  Foreign  Tatal   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Korea Institute
of Technology           1.6      3.5      5.1     2.5      5.4     7.9       68
Industrial Technology
Center                  2.3      5.7      8.0     3.7      8.6    12.3       70
Korea Electrotechnology
Research Institute       1.2     2.6      3.8     1.9      4.0      5.9      68
Baseline cost             5.1     111,8    16.9    8.1    18.0    26,         69
Contingencies
Physical               0.5      1.2      1.7     0.9      1.8     2.7       67
Price increase         0.3      0.6     0.9      0.3      0.9     1.2       75
Subtotal             08       1.8     2i       1.2      2       3.9       69
Total Project Cost /a   5.9    13.6    19.5        93    20.7   _30,          69
,a  Does not include duties, taxes and fees estimated at US$1.5 million.



- 16 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreign
Won Million              USS Million        as % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Total
Equipment                   -   10,660  10,660    -       16.4    16.4       100
Equipment trans-
portation &
installation            622        69     691    1.0      0.1      1.1       9
Civil Works            4,330    1,005   5,335    6.7       1.5      8.2       18
Operation and
maintenance             104        12     116    0.2      -        0.2        0
Consumable materials    104         12     116    0.2      -        0.2       0
Baseline costs       5.160   11.758  16.918    8 1    IS.0    26.1         69
Contingencies
Physical               516    1,176   1,692    0.9       1.8      2.7      67
Price increase         268       600     868    0.3      0.9      1.2      75
Subtotal               784    1.776   2.560    1.2       2Z       3.9      69
Total project cost    5944   13.534  19.478    9J3    20.7    30.0           69
3.2      Base costs are estimated at January 1989 prices.  Construction costs
were provided by the Government and are based on contract awards for similar
facilities in Korea. Equipment costs are estimated on the basis of master
lists already drawn up and recent catalogue prices. Transportation and
installation costs are based on recent experience with these activities in the
project institutions. The initial supply of consumables has been estimated at
1% of equipment costs excluding contingencies. Operation and maintenance
costs for equipment were also estimated at 1% of investment costs. Duties and
taxes, allowiiig for exemptions, are estimated at US$1.5 million. During nego-
tiations the Government gave assurances that adequate funds would be available
to cover all duties, taxes and fees related to equipment to be imported under
the project.
3.3      The contingency allowance of US$3.9 million (about 15% of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for esti-
mated price increases. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% of base-
line costs for civil works, equipment, consumable materials and O&M expendi-
tures. Price increase contingencies were calculated for both local and
foreign costs in accordance with the following expected annual average price
increase percentages:



- 17 -
FY89      90      91       92
Foreign        5       4        4       4
Local          2        2       2       2
Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about 4.3% of base-
line costs plus physical contingencies.
3.4      The foreign exchange comRonent of US$20.7 million (about 69% of total
estimated project costs) has been calculated o.a the basis of the following
foreign exchange percentages: civil works - 20%, equipment - 100%, transporta-
tion and installation - 10%, consumables - 10%, and O&M - 10%.
B. Financing
3.5      The proposed loan of US$16.4 million equivalent would finance about
79% of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project or about 55% of
total project costs net of duties and taxes. The Government would be respon-
sible for the remaining 45% or about US$13.6 million equivalent. The loan
amount is limited to US$16.4 million by the foreign borrowing program and is
therefore less than the foreign exchange cost of the project. The loan would
finance 100% of the baseline cost of equipment with all contingencies to be
financed by the Government.
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Category of Expenditure              Government         IBRD        Total
-------------US$ million-----------
Equipment                                  -            16.4          16.4
Equipment transportation
and installation                         1.1            -             1.1
Construction                              8.2            -             8.2
Operation and maintenance                 0.2            -             0.2
Consumable materials                      0.2            -             0.2
Contingencies                             3.9            -             3.9
Total                                               16.          30,0
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6      The project would not generate any significant additional recurrent
expenditures. No additional staff would be required to utilize the equipment.
The only incremental recurrent expenditures generated when the project is
fully operational would be for consumables and operation and maintenance.
These will amount to about US$0.3 million p.a. which represents about 0.6% of
the estimated combined recurrent budgets of the three project institutions in
1991. These additional expenditures can be accommodated by the institutions
without difficulty.



- 18 -
C. Project Management and Implementation
3.7      Each project institution would be responsible for the implementation
of its part of the project. The institutions are autonomous bodies managing
their own operations under the general budgetary oversight of the Ministry of
Science and Technology. Thus MOST would play only an overall coordinating
role in project implementation. It would not become involved in day-to-day
implementation activities but would be kept informed by the Bank and the
institutions on the general progress of project implementation. MOST would
become involved directly only in project-wide issues which would require a
coordinated response from the three institutions such as any proposed amend-
ment to the loan agreement, change of project description, preparation of the
project completion report, etc.
3.8      The project institutions are adequately staffed with experienced
personnel in accounting and procurement although they have not yet had expo-
sure to Bank implementation procedures. However, the bulk of the work in
eq:sipment procurement would be undertaken by the Office of Supply, Republic of
Korea (OSROK), the procurement agency of the Government which is highly
experienced in procuring equipment under the Bank's international competitive
bidding procedures. On the basis of equipment specifications provided by the
institutions, OSROK would prepare bidding documents, invite bids, evaluate
them in conjunction with the institutions and make contract awards with the
agreement of the institutions.
3.9      Implementation of the KIT component would be undertaken by the Office
of Planning and Management (OPM) (Annex 1) which is responsible for KIT's
development of physical facilities and equipment acquisition (in conjunction
with OSROK). Support to OPM in accounting and general administrative matters
would be provided by the Office of Business and Finance (OBF). The Director
of OPM has been designated project director and would coordinate activities
between OPM, OBF and OSROK. Similarly, project implementation at ITC would be
the responsibility of the Office of Planning which is responsible for physical
facilities development and equipment acquisition with accounting and adminis-
trative support being pro-ided by the Administrative Office (Annex 2). The
Director of the Office of Planning has been designated project director. At
KERI, the Director of the Planning and Coordination Division would be project
director (Annex 3). His division is responsible for physical facilities
development and equipment acquisition and he would utilize accounting and
other support staff from the General Administration Division.
Status of Project Preparation
3.10     The physical facilities required to house the equipment to be
procured under the project are part of ongoing expansion programs in the three
institutions and contracts are already in force for construction under these
programs. The remaining 5% of the physical facilities for KIT will be
completed in 1990; the new buildings for ITC in early 1990; and the two new
laboratories at KERI in 1989-90.  Equipmeat lists and specifications for the
three institutions have been prepared and are acceptable to the Bank.
Schedules of procurement by year have also been prepared by the project
institutions. Project management authorities have been identified within the



- 19 -
project institutions and supporting implementation staff are also available.
The advanced stage of project preparation will allow implementation to
commence immediately after loan signing.
Procurement
3.11     Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4.  Civil works, to be
financed by the Government, would be procured through established local compe-
titive bidding procedures which are acceptable to the Bank. About 85% of the
equipment would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding
procedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Equipment items in
contracts valued at less than US$200,000 may be procured through international
or local shopping up to a limit of US$2.4 million. Local equipment
manufacturers would be extended a 15% preference margin, or the prevailing
customs duties, whichever is the lower, on bid evaluation under ICB.
Transportation, operation and maintenance costs on equipment will be financed
by the Government under local procedures. Installation costs and costs of
consumables, if not included in the equipment contracts, would also be
financed by the Government.
Table 3.4: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
Total cost
including
Category of expenditure              ICB     LCB   Other La  N/A  contingencies
------------- (US$ million) --------------
Equipment                            16.4    -       2.7     -         19.i
(14.2)         (2.2)              (16.4)
Equipment transportation              -      -       -       1.2        1.2
and installation                                          (0.0)      (0.0)
Civil works                           -      9.3    -        -          9.3
(0.0)                      (0.0)
Operation and maintenance             -      -       -       0.2        0.2
(0.0)      (0.0)
Consumable materials                  -      -       -       0.2        0.2
(0.0)      (0.0)
Total                           16.4    9.3    2        1.6       30.O
(14.2)  (0.0)  (2.2)   (0.0)      (16.4)
La Includes international and local shopping.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the loan.



- 20 -
3.12     In accordance with -successful practices for procurement under ICB
used in the last two education projects in Korea (Loans 1800-KO and 2427-KO),
OSROK will not be required to refer about 260 equipment contracts to the Bank
for prior review before making contract awards. Bid evaluation reports,
documents and contracts will be retained by OSROK for selected ex-post review
by Bank missions. However, co-plete bidding documents including commercial
terms, schedule of requirements and technical specifications will be sent to
the Bank for reference and record before each invitation to bid.
Disbursements
3.13     The proposed loan of US$16.4 million would be disbursed over a period
of 3.5 years (Annex 7). This is less than the standard disbursement profile
for education projects in Korea which is 5.5 years. The proposed shorter
profile is justified on the basis of the advanced stage of project preparation
(para. 3.10) and the long experience OSROK has had in procuring equipment
under the Bank's ICB procedures. The completion date of the project would be
June 30, 1992 and the closing date December 31, 1992. Disbursements would be
made on the basis of (a) 100% of foreign expenditures for imported equipment
or the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment; and (b) 65% of the
cost of other local expenditures for equipment. For reimbursement applica-
tions involving equipment contracts exceeding US$100,000, two copies of the
contract would be submitted to the Bank for review. For equipment contracts
below US$100,000, reimbursement would be made against statements of expendi-
ture for which full supporting documentation would be retained in the project
institutions, for review as requested, by visiting Bank missions.
3.14     To facilitate disbursements, special accounts, maintained in US
dollars, would be set up separately for KIT, ITC and KERI at the Korea
Exchange Bank in amounts of US$600,000, US$800,000 and US$400,000 respec-
tively.  These amounts represent the estimated average amount required to
finance project expenditures for the next four months. Applications for
replenishment of each special account would be submitted to the Bank
quarterly, or more frequently if necessary, in amounts of not less than
US$200,000. During negotiations, the Government agreed that opening the
special accounts for KIT, ITC and KERI would be a condition of disbursement
under their respective categories.
Accounts. Audits and Regorting
3.15     The Government would cause KIT, ITC and KERI to maintain separate
accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices. During negotirtions
the Government gave assurances that audited accounts and financial statements,
including a separate audit of statements of expendititre would be sent to the
Bank within six monthr of the end of the financial year. The Government also
agreed during negoti4cions to submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank,
provide status reports for visiting missions and, within six months of the
closing date, a project completion report.



- 21 -
D. Environmental Impact
3.16     The project will not have any negative impact on the environment,
The equipment to be supplied under the project will be housed in properly
designed laboratories. The Explosion Proof Testing System will be located in
a specially designed building to ensure against possible environmental
problems.
E. Impact on Women
3.17     The project would have little direct impact on the status of women.
KIT, which is an educational institution and therefore the project institution
most relevant to the status of women, has a current female enrollment of about
10%. This low enrollment level reflects the traditional reluctance of women
in Korea to enter technology (only about 4% of enrollments in engineering
programs nationally are female compared with 40% in natural sciences). In
response, KIT has introduced a program a.med at attracting more women
students. This consists of visits by faculty to girls' high schools,
information packages for parents and student counsellors and visits by female
students to KIT.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1      The project would raise the quality of science and engineering
education at KIT. This in turn would raise the quality of inputs to graduate
programs at KAIST and ultimately benefit technology-intensive industry. The
project would also strengthen the capacity of ITC and KERI to provide
technical support services to SMIs which would result in expanded and more
efficient utilization of scarce technical manpower and improve the quality of
products. The SMIs would serve more effectively as suppliers of parts and
materials to large enterprises thus reducing imports. The export capacity of
the SMIs would also be enhanced under the project.
B. Risks
4.2      There are no major risks associated with the project.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1      During negotiations the Government agreed to the following:
(a)  adequate funds would be available to cover all duties, taxes and fees
related to equipment to be imported under the project (para. 3.2);
(b)  KIT, ITC and KERI would each open a special account prior to
disbursement (para. 3.14);



- 22 -
(c)  audit reports would be submitted by the Government to the Bank within
six months of the end of each financial year (para. 3.15);
(d) semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to the Bank and
status reports provided to visiting missions (para. 3.15); and
(e) within six months of the closing date, a project completion report
would be submitted to the Bank (pata. 3.15).
5.2      Subject to the above conditions, the projez_t constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$16.4 million equivalent to the Republic of Korea
for a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.



KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
KOREA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
|PRESIDENT            _ 
VICE PRESIDENT
FACULTY         .
COMMITTEE
School of Natural                      a
Academic Affairs 
___ctri__  Shool of Electrical Engineering  I
Office of   j                  and Computer Scence       l           Center
Student Affairs
School of Mechanical and
Materials Engineerig               Instructional
Office of                                                             Media
Plannrng &                                                             Center
Management                         School of AppMied
Engineering
Office of                                                           KIT Press
Business &
Finance
_       ~~Mathematics Research
Robotics Research
m            ~~~Institute         J
Research Institute fr the  I
Scientifically Gifted Students    l
EK\W42741C



KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY CENTER
DIRECTOR
AudiorI
Mechanical Testing & Research |
|Planning Office                         Departnierit   
Electrical Tesbng & Ra
Administrabvepatmn
Olfice             ~~~Standards Testing & Research |
Department
Technology
Library                        Precision Mlachirs
Department
oCm ptutre en                    Castings Researchl
l       ~~Department
<        ~~~Enterprises Support    |
l       ~~Departmentl 
|        ~~~Export Cerbffcaon                  
DepatUrntl 
EK\W42741b



KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Organization Chart
KOREA ELECTROTECHNOLOGY RESEARCH INSTnUTE
| BOARD OF DIRECTORS        l
AudHor
PRESIDENT                      Planring & Coordination
| Research Review And                                                       D
Appraisal Commitee
General Administration
EXECUTIVE MANAGER]                         Divsion
Power System     |                Technical Services
Research Divison                         Center
Power Electronics   |           |   Technical Policy
Research Divsion__j                      Center
Electrial Materials  |          |   Computer Center
Research Divison
High Power & High
Voltage Divsion
Power Testing
Dision
EKMW42741a



ANNEX 4
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Proiect Costs
(Won million)
Equipment
Transportation  Civil         Consumable    Total Cost
Equipment  & Installation  Works  O&M  Materials   Won M   US$ M
Korea Institute of Technology                    3,510            227       1,316   38       38       5,129   7.9
Industrial Technology Center                     4,550            295       3,077   49       49       8,020  12.3
Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute    2,600               169         944   28       28       3,769   5.9
Baseline cost                              10,660            691      5,337  115       115     16,918  26.1
Contingencies
Physical                                       1,066             69         533   12       12      1,692   2.7
Price increase                                   690             25         145    4        4         868   1.2
Subtotal contingencies                      1,756             94        678   16        16      2,560   3.9
Total project cost
Won million                              12,416            785      6,015  131      131      19,478
US$ million                                19.1            1.2        9.3  0.2      0.2               30.0



ANNEX 5
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Project ExDenditure by Year and Purpose
Base Costs (Won million)      Total Cost
89/90     90/91    91/92    Won M    US$ M
Korea Institute of Technology         1,407      2,179    1,543      5,129    7.9
Industrial Technology Center          3,152      3,203    1,665      8,020   12.3
Korea Electrotechnology
Research Center                     1,856      1,141      772      3,769    5.9
Baseline cost                    6.415     6.523    3.980    16.918   26.1
Contingencies
Physical                              642        652      398      1,692    2.7
Price increase                        110        342      416        868    1.2
Total Project Cost               7.167     7.517    4.794    19.478   30.0



KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CY  88       1989            1990     |     1S 991          1992     | 1993
BANK FY     1989          1990           1991            1992            1993
FY QUARTER  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3  4   1  2  3   4   1  2  3   4
CIVIL WORKS
PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS
BIDS INVITED
BIDS EVALUATED
CONTRACTS AWARDED                             _
CONSTRUCTION
WARRANTY PERIOD                                               _       - _
EOUIPMENT
PREPARATION OF EQUIPMENT LISTS
WRITING SPECIFICATIONS
PREPARATION OF BIDDING DOCUMENTS
PiASE Ip I1SE 2               PH OSE 3
BIDS INVITED
BIDS E'/ALUAfED
CONTRACTS AWARDED
EQUIPMENT DELIVERED INSTALLED & TESTED
WARRANTY PERIOD                                               -                           -      _  _
LOAN PROCESSING & GENERAL IMPLEMENTATION
NEGOTIATIONS
BOARD PRESENTATION                             _
LOAN SIGNING
EFFECTIVENESS
GENtRAL PROCIJREMENT NOTICE ADVERTISED         _
PROJECT COMPLETION DATE                                                                       _
LOAN CLOSING DATE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EK\W 42814



ANNEX 7
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Disbursements
IBRD fiscal             Amount per              Ci,mulative            Disbursement
year & semester           semester          Amount          %           profile La
---------- (US$ million) --- ----                 ()
1990
1                           1.8              1.8            11                1
2                           3.6              5.4            33                3
1991
1                           3.6              9.0            55                5
2                           2.2             11.2            68               10
1992
1                           2.2             13.4            82               23
2                           2.2             15.6            95               44
1993
1                           0.8             16.4           100               70
2                                                                            81
1994
1                                                                            92
2                                                                            97
1995
1                                                                           100
/a Standard disbursement profile for education projects in Korea.
a   Initial deposit in Special Account.



ANEX 8
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
A.       Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1      Introduction to Science & Technology - Republic of Kor3a, MOST, 1988
A-2      Science and Technology Handbook, MOST, 1987
A-3      A Study on the Long Term Development Plan of Graduate Education in
the Field of Science and Engineering in Korea, MOE, July 1985
A-4      Industrial and Technology Policy for the Sixth Five-Year Plan Period,
Kyoung-Hwie Mihn, KIET, September 1985
A-5      Korea - Managing Industrial Transition, 2 vols. IBRD, March 1987
A-6      Korea - Sector Survey of Science Education, IBRD, January 12, 1982
A-7      Impact of World Bank Lending for Educational Development in Korea: A
Review, IBRD Report No. 5950, December 5, 1985
B.       Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1      Prior Investigation Report of a New Public Investment Program, ITC,
September 1987
B-2      Project for Improving Research Facilities to Achieve Domestic
Production of Electrical Materials, KERI, July 1987
B-3      Information Package for Appraisal of Project, ITC, June 1988
B-4      IBRD Loan Project for the Improvement of Educational and Research
Capacity, KIT, June 1988
B-5      General Status and Prospective for Loan Programme, KERI, J .ne 1988
C.       Selected Working Papers
C-1      IBRD Working Paper - Equipment



IBRD 21409
,. i tf USSR                                27                       1 28-                     12                        13
I         - -          DEMOCRATIC  PEOPLE'S  REPUBLIC
C H I N A                                          OF  KOREA                           -
)                I                                w*\_  ,,               sJ       x                     ULLWUNG DO
Sokeho
r PEOPLE8-
Re P IIE KORtEA                                   f51
REP. OF
KOREA     JAPAN                 PaRnmunjom                                                                                  3V 
125-                     126'
37-
35.
M Lnilp    o              ChfX                        4 n7 Ra
I  N,ndt Arort
flwi,uhu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Provinnce Boundaries \    -
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31
3^.                       ~       ~~~~~~~~~Ch ngh ng   t    ,.t-l'!                   .                         u
+          TECHNOLOGY ADVANC~~~~~~~~~KLOET ETEROEC
36 5'                        '6                          2'2'I
PrimorU Roods
t_>t t   ^F - _                                                                O      SpetCiCtl Cities~~~~~w  Cit
_ g J ) |, KILOMETE#5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cun 
Mokpowlo                                                            FlE
125  12#t                        127                        128                        129~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~il
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O                                                          K '      R E 
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENTFE8ROJECT98



