Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
Report No.13130
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3037-KO)
JUNE 9, 1994
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korean Won (W)
US$1.00 - W680
(February, 1989)
GLOSSARY
ITC      -     Industrial Technology Center
KAIST    -    Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
KAITECH  -    Korea Academy of Industrial Technology
KERI     -    Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute
KIT      -    Korea Institute of Technology
MOF      -    Ministry of Finance
MOST     -    Ministry of Science and Technology
MTI      -    Ministry of Trade and Industry
O&M      -     Operations and Maintenance
PCR      -     Project Completion Report
R&D      -    Research and Development
SMI      -     Small and Medium Industry
SMIPC    -     Small and Medium Industry Promotion Corporation
TIC      -    Test and Inspection Center
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
March - February



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLO RANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Dlrector-General
Operations Evaluation
June 9, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Korea
Technology Advancement Project (Loan 3037-KO)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Korea: Technology Advancement Project (Loan
3037-KO) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Borrower.
This was a simple project that provided construction and equipment to expand and upgrade
three well established technical institutions. There was no technical assistance provided and no
significant policy changes were sought.
The project highlights the appropriateness of providing only hardware in cases when the project
institutions are well-developed and staff on both sides are competent and dedicated. The outcome
is rated as fully satisfactory and promises to be sustainable. Institutional impact is rated as negligible
but none was sought.
The PCR is of good quality.
No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCE.MENT PROJECT
(Loan 3037-KO)
Table of Contents
Paze No.
PREFACE   .     .     .     .     .   .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .     .   .     .   .     .   .   .     .     .   .     .     .  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       ii
I.     PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       I
A.   Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      1
B.  Project Background   .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
C.  Project Objectives and Description.    . . . . . . . . . . . .                       2
D.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       3
E.  Project Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      4
F.   Major Results of the Project.    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      5
G.   Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      6
H.   Bank's Performance during Project Cycle  . . . . . . . . . . .                      6
I.  Borrower's Performance during Project Cycle  . . . . . . . . .                       7
J.   Project Relationships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      7
K.   Consulting Services  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      8
L.   Project Documentation and Data   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      8
II.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . . . . . .                       9
Korea Academy of Industrial Technology or
KAITECH (representing ITC which is now part of KAITECH)  . . . . .                       9
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology or
KAIST (representing KIT which is now a part of KAIST)  . . . . . .                     12
Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute or KERI   . . . . . . .                     14
III.   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related Bank Loans  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      16
B. Project Timetable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     18
C. Loan Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .                      20
D. Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       22
E. Project Costs and Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     23
F. Project Results.   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .            .  .  .   . . . .  . . . .   26
G. Scatus of Loan Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     28
H. Use of Bank Resources.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1.       Participants in Completion Mission   . . . .  . . . . . . .                     31
Annex 2.      Record of Progress Reports Submitted.                    .  .  .   .  . . . . .  32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3037 - KO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technology
Advancement Project in Korea for which Loan 3037-KO in the amount of US$16.4
million was approved on April 18, 1989. The loan was closed on schedule on
December 31, 1992. The loan account books were kept open to honor
applications received before April 30, 1993. The last transaction was made on
June 18, 1993 against the full recovery of the initial deposit of USD400,000
advanced to the Special Account for one of the three project components, the
Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute (KERI). The loan account was
closed on June 18, 1993 with a total disbursement of US$16.3 million or 99.4%
of the loan account.
The PCR was prepared in August/September, 1993 by EA1PH (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and earlier by the Borrower (two of the
three parts in Part II, the third part was not received from KERI until
December 1993). The other two parts of Part II of the PCR were received in
the Bank in March and June 1993 respectively. The Borrower's Ministry of
Finance was requested to act as the coordinator for the three parts of Part II
of the PCR.
Preparation of this PCR was started in May 1992 when a Bank mission
requested the three institutions concerned to complete and return Bank-
prepared pro-formas for the preparation of Part III of the PCR. The November
1992 Bank mission followed up with reminders on the pro-formas and the
obligations of the borrower for submission of Part II of the PCR to the Bank.
Based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement dated May
31, 1987, supervision and progress reports, correspondence between the Bank
and Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda and documents, Bank staff prepared
the PCR in August/September 1983.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3037 - KO)
EVALUATION SUMMAkRY
OBJECTIVES
(i)   The objectives of the project were largely met (paras. 6 and 15).  In
general the broad aim of the project in improving the quality of education in
a center of excellence in science and engineering education and enhancing the
R&D capacitv of selected institutions to provide better technical support to
small and medium industry (SMI) was achieved.  The impact of the project in
all three institutions in the project was positive (paras. 15 and 16).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
(ii) Overall implementation experience was highly satisfactory. The project
closed on schedule with no cost overrun. There were two physical components
in the project - equipment financed by the loan and equipment-related civil
works, which were financed by the Government.  Equipment procurement was very
close to target with disbursements of US$16.3 million out of loan proceeds of
US$16.4 million. Thus actual disbursements were 99.4% of the loan amount.
There was some delay in the implementation of civil works but this was
resolved and did not affect the timely installation of equipment. Cooperation
between the Bank and the project institutions was generally highly
satisfactory and this can be attributed to strong start-up assistance from the
Bank and the high quality of local implementation officials. Nevertheless, as
the project progressed, there was less willingness on the part of one project
institution to respond to the Bank's advice. However, this did not detract
from the general success of project implementation.
RESULTS
(iii) The equipment procured under the project was relevant to the project's
objectives.  The quality of teaching has been strengthened at KIT and this
institution has recently received international recognition of its standards.
The ability of ITC to provide advice and technical services to SMI has been
enhanced. Research programs have expanded, the range of tests undertaken for
SMI clients has been broadened and the availability of results accelerated;
revenue from service fees has increased substantially; and ITC (which has been
renamed -see para. 14) has gained membership of an international certification
agency.  The R&D capacity of KERI has been strengthened and its capacity to
support the development of SMI in the electrical industry has been enhanced.



- iii -
SUSTAINABILITY
(iv) The project institutions are prestige institutions in Korea and receive
strong support from their parent ministries (paras. 17-19). KIT has been
integrated into KAIST, one of Korea's leading education and research
institutes in science and technology. Thus it will continue to be well-
financed and to recruit high quality faculty thereby ensuring the
sustainability of the project's investment.  ITC, which is the major
industrial testing center, has also been given responsibility for training
industrial technologists, thus giving the institution an even higher profile.
KERI is the only electrotechnology research institute in Korea and services
the vital electrical industry. The importance of both these institutes to
Korea's technology development priorities will ensure continued strong support
for them which in turn will reinforce the sustainability of the project's
investments.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS LEARNED
(v) Project design was consistent with sectoral objectives and with previous
Bank lending in technology development and science and technical education in
Korea. Project design focused on hardware (equipment and civil works) and
this was appropriate in view of the well-developed state of the project
institutions. They were well-managed, staffed and financed. The need was for
upgrading the teaching and research laboratories to permit the highly-
qualified staff to work more effectively. Given the straightforward nature of
project design and its successful implementation, there were no major lessons
to be learned. Nevertheless, some insight can be gained. Strong initial
start-up assistance from the Bank and the dedication of competent local staff
enhanced the prospects for successful implementation. As the project
progressed, one institution became less responsive to Bank advice and this
situation could have been improved by greater face-to-face contact between
Bank missions and local staff. Enthusiasm for writing Part II of the PCR was
not high and in the case of one institution, its submission was received six
months late.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3037-KO)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM B.ANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    Project Identity
- Project Name:   Technology Advancement Project
- Loan No.:       3037-KO
- RVP Unit:       East Asia and Pacific Region, Country Department I
- Country:        Korea
- Sector:         Education
- Subsector:      Science and Technology
B.    Project Background
1.        Sector Development Objectives  (At the time of project appraisal).
In support of the Government's industrial restructuring policy, the objectives
of the science and technology sector were to:
-    develop and utilize technology to the fullest;
-    gain continued improvements in productivity;
-    expand high value added output which is technologically
sophisticated, energy efficient and strongly export-oriented; and
-    enhance the role of small and medium industry (SMI) for reducing
industrial concentration and over-dependence on imported parts and
materials;
In line with these priorities, the education sector's objectives were: to
develop R&D capacity in both educational institutions and research institutes;
to develop indigenous technology to overcome the increasing difficulty of
importing technology from abroad; and to upgrade and restructure the skill mix
requirements for meeting the demands of an increasingly technology-intensive
industrial sector.
2.        Policy Context.  The above objectives are reflected in the
Government's policy of strong commitment to technology promotion, increased
assistance to SMI and continued improvement of the skill training system in
response to advances in industrial development.
3.        Research and Development.  The growth of R&D in Korea underwent
three major changes.  First, the emphasis in the early stage on Government
expenditures changed to the predominantly industry-funded contributions
following the introduction, in the 1970s, of incentives for the private sector
to expand R&D expenditures.  Second, the overall growth of total R&D
expenditures increased from 0.6% of GNP in 1980 to 2% in 1986 and is planned
to reach 3% by 1995 and 5% by 2001. Third, the ratio of scientists and
engineers (the basic human resource for R&D), is planned to increase from 13



per 10,000 population in 1986 to 30 per 10,000 by 2001. Further, the National
Project scheme has been introduced to develop broader technological
infrastructure in priority areas, strengthen linkage between industry and
public R&D institutes and promote research on industry-initiated topics under
joint ventures between SMI and contracted research institutes.
4.        Science and Technology Education.  In Korea, the development of
education at secondary and higher levels has generally borne a close
relationship to the country's economic development, especially in relation to
industrial growth and restructuring. The shift from labor-intensive to
capital-intensive and increasingly to technology-intensive industry has been
accompanied by changes in the education system. Early emphasis was placed on
vocational and technical education to produce skilled workers. This was
followed by an expansion of junior technical colleges to train industrial
technicians. As the economy moved towards more technology-intensive
production, greater emphasis was placed on undergraduate science and
engineering programs to produce professional scientists and engineers followed
by priority for graduate education in these fields to supply key R&D
personnel.
5.        Small and Medium Industry.  Industrial policy in the 1970s gave
priority to the development of the large conglomerates. They grew rapidly
while SMI activity declined in terms of a decreasing share of employment and
value added. In the eighties, this trend was reversed and priority given to
SMI expansion. This reversal was in response to the need to become more self-
sufficient in the manufacture of parts and materials for large enterprises
thereby reducing the import gap, to encourage regional development and to
restructure SMI towards more technology-intensive production with strong
emphasis on increasing export capacity.
C.   Proiect Objectives and Description
6.        The broad aim of the project was to strengthen the development of
SMI in technology-intensive sectors, improve the quality of education in a
center of excellence in science and engineering education and enhance the
capacity of selected R&D institutions to provide technical support to SMI.
More specifically, the project would help to improve the quality of science
and engineering education and research at the Korea Institute of Technology
(KIT), enhance the ability of the Industrial Technology Center (ITC) to
provide advice and technical services to SMI and raise the research capability
of the Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute (KERI) to support the
development of SMI in the electrical industry.
7.        The project financed specialized equipment, associated civil works
and equipment-related consumable materials and O&M expenditures for KIT, ITC
and KERI.  More specifically, project inputs aimed to:  increase experimental
and practical work at KIT; strengthen basic R&D capacity, improve the focus on
quality testing and inspection services to SMI, and propagation of low-cost
automation techniques at ITC; and enhance R&D capacity at KERI to support the
development of parts and materials for supply to major manufacturers from SMI
in the electrical industry.



- 3-
D.   Project Design and Orzanization
8.        The project was based on previous Bank support for technology
development in Korea. At the time of preparation, the Bank had financed
projects in electronics technology, industry promotion (including SMI) and
research and development. The Bank had assisted technical and science
education through six loans which complemented industrial development.
Finally, the Bank had also provided general support for industrial development
through a series of loans to local development banks and through an IFC loan
to assist the commercialization of new technology. Based upon the experience
of the Bank when the appraisal report was issued (March 1989), the conceptual
framework for the project was appropriate,  and it was clearly stated in the
SAR. The project was designed over an eighteen month period, with inputs from
the Government's central planning authorities, participating ministries/
institutions and Bank staff/consultants. Following the Bank's approval of the
project, there were no significant changes in the project design.
9.        The scope and scale of the project were appropriate since it
continued support in those areas in which the Bank had previous experience
while addressing the needs of the three national institutions which the
Government had identified as requiring additional quality-improving
investments. The development of these institutions (KIT, ITC and KERI)
further encouraged the role of SMI in technological sectors by increasing the
capacity of the institutions to provide technical support, and improving the
quality of science and engineering education and research. The project
design's focus on hardware (equipment and civil works) was also appropriate.
The project institutions were found to be well-staffed by highly-qualified
researchers, efficiently managed and well-financed. Their objectives were
clearly stated and these were closely related to Korea's education and
technology development priorities.  Institutional weaknesses were in the
physical aspects of laboratory provision and these were addressed under the
project.  Upgraded laboratories would increase the effectiveness of teaching
and research staff.
10.       The design of project management centered on the three
institutions, each of which was responsible for the implementation of its part
of the project, under the general budgetary oversight of the Ministry of
Science and Technology (MOST). Two of the three excelled in their
coordination with the Bank. The performance of the third institution, KERI,
was somewhat less satisfactory and characterized by slower implementation and
the very late submission for the PCR. Based on lessons learned from Ln. 2427-
KO1, the Bank requested that the Ministry of Finance (MOF) coordinate the
preparation of Part II of the PCR. While KAIST, representing KIT, and
KAITECH, representing ITC2, submitted the requested information, MOF was
unable to obtain similar information from KERI's staff. The latter was
lIn para. 8 of Part I of the PCR for Ln. 2427-KO dated May 17, 1991, it was
stated that there was a need for a coordinator to oversee the preparation of the
PCRs for projects dealing with more than one institution.
2For organizational changes affecting KIT and ITC, see para. 14.



- 4 -
received only after excessive delay and became available after the PCR was in
final draft form.
E.   Project Implementation
11.       Comparison of "Planned" versus "Actually Performed" in Project
Implementation. There were only two physical components in the project. One
was civil works which was financed by the Government; the other was equipment
which was financed by loan proceeds.  Equipment is dealt with first.  For
KAITECH, procurement of 109 items of equipment was planned with an estimated
cost of $11.5 million, exceeding the loan allocation to KAITECH ($7.0 million)
by about $4.5 million. KAITECH selected 72 items of priority for procurement
and the estimated cost was $7.4 million. The "Actually Performed" figure was
72 items and the contract cost was $6.97 million. Therefore there was little
difference between "Planned" and "Actually Performed".  For KAIST, 260 items
were planned whose estimated cost was equivalent to the estimated loan
allocation of $5.4 million. Procurement of 248 items at a cost of $5.32
million was achieved. The difference was also minimal. KERI procured 45
items of equipment at a cost of $3.98 million, which was within KERI's loan
allocation of $4.0 million. As a whole there was no cost overrun. Out of the
total loan amount of $16.4 million, $16.3 million was spent on equipment.
There was also no time overrun on equipment procurement, as evidenced by the
on-schedule loan closing.
12.       As for civil works, only partial information was received from the
project institutions. From data received, it was difficult to compare
"Planned" with "Actually Performed". The part of civil works for housing
project-related equipment was only a part of the overall construction programs
for these institutions. It was almost impossible to delineate those costs for
housing project related equipment from the overall costs, and those areas in
m2 from the total area constructed. However, there was no problem in housing
newly procured equipment. There was some time overrun on civil works, but the
project was not adverselv affected.
13.       Project Risks.  There were no major risks as seen during appraisal.
No major problem occurred during implementation. The amount of loan
cancellation was $96,244.79, or about 0.6% of total loan amount, and this can
be regarded as negligible. A minor problem occurred near the Loan Closing
Date, December 31, 1992.  For a contract of about $180,000, the disbursement
of which had to be completed after the Closing Date, the borrower requested an
extension of the Closing Date. The request was denied (reference: letter from
Chief, EAlPH to Director, Treasury Division, MOF, Korea, dated December 9,
1992). The disbursements were completed during the four month grace period.
There was also no problem on compliance with covenants (Table 9), submission
of audit reports including separate opinion on statement of expenditures
(Table 9) and timely submission of progress reports (Annex 2).
14.       There were no unforeseen factors which affected project
implementation, and there were no actions or decisions taken which affected
implementation negatively. Two changes of jurisdiction, one with KIT being
merged into KAIST, the other with ITC being changed to the Test and Inspection



-5-
Center (TIC) of KAITECH, were unforeseen events, but neither produced any
adverse effect.
F.   Maior Results of the Proiect
15.       Project Obiectives.  The objectives of the project were met.
-    The quality of science and engineering education and research at
the Korea Institute of Technology (KIT, now the undergraduate
branch of KAIST) has been improved. KIT has recently been
evaluated by a U.S. evaluation institution (Accreditation Board for
Engineering and Technology) and rated as equivalent to one of the
top 30% of universities in the U.S.
-    The ability of the Industrial Technology Center (ITC), (now the
Test and Inspection Center of KAITECH) to provide advice and
technical services to SMI has been enhanced.  TIC of KAITECH has
now become a member of an internacional certification agency,
IECEE, with TIC test and certification reports recognized by all
its member countries. Test reports to SMI can now be returned in
10 days as compared to one month before this project. Service fees
for operations carried out on behalf of SMI have more than doubled
during 1987-92, revenues for R&D operations have increased more
than fivefold in the same period, while Government's budgetary
contribution increased by only about 20% in the five years.
-    The Bank completion mission's estimate on KERI, made without the
benefit of its PCR submission, is that the equipment purchased with
the loan proceeds has increased its research capacity. The loan
financed 45 key pieces of research equipment, virtually all of
which had been installed and were being used by KERI at the time
the project closed.  KERI's late submission contained very little
detail, but is consistent with the above comment.
16.       Impact of Project.  The impact of the project is positive on all
the three institutions, although information about KERI is somewhat
inadequate. There is little to add for KERI due to lack of information, but
for KIT and ITC, the assessment is as follows:
(a) KIT. now a part of KAIST
KIT was an undergraduate institution, originally established for
catering to gifted students in science in Korea. KAIST is an elite graduate
school in Korea. The second objective of KIT is to supply KAIST with top
level intake from students with a strong background of science from the senior
secondary level and also to provide a high quality engineering training at the
undergraduate level. The high quality engineering training at KIT cannot be
achieved without sound experimental work in laboratories and solid practical
work in workshops. Well-equipped laboratories and workshops are prerequisites
for the attainment of this goal. The 248 items of equipment for KIT are said
to form the cornerstone of the laboratories and workshops and bridge the gap



between KIT and KAIST. The project's positive impact on KIT and KAIST is
therefore clear.
(b) ITC. now the Test and Inspection Center of KAITECH
In addition to what has been stated in para. 15 above about ITC
vis-a-vis SMI, the research capacity has also been enhanced. The number of
research topics increased from 18 in 1987 to 31 in 1992. The number of
reports published also increased from 6 out of the 18 topics, or 33%, in 1987
to 16 out of the 31 topics, or 52%, in 1992. Both quantity and quality have
significantly improved. The scope of tests carried out at TIC of KAITECH has
been broadened by eight new fields, including environmentally related chemical
tests, through use of the new equipment procured from the loan proceeds.
Calibration scope and range have been expanded. The reliability of data has
also improved. Further, mutual recognition with foreign institutions has
resulted with the elevation of TIC to international status.
G.   Project Sustainabilitv
17.       The Government's continued dependence on KAIST for producing the
highest level scientific and technological manpower and as a major research
institute, assures the sustainability of this component. KAIST, which now
includes KIT, is the only educational institution under the Ministry of
Science and Technology (MOST). The strong support of MOST for the well-being
of KAIST, one of Korea's most prestigious institutions, further guarantees
that KAIST will not face adverse conditions, such as lack of budgetary
provision. The high esteem that KAIST has enjoyed in the last two decades in
Korea, will also ensure that it will continue to recruit high-quality faculty
without difficulty.
18.       KAITECH, which now includes TIC, is under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Trade and Industry (MTI). MTI's strong support of KAITECH is
evidenced by the recent scheme of delegating the responsibility of training
industrial technologists to KAITECH in addition to duties for assisting SMI
and performing test, inspection and certification services. The strong
commitment of the Korean Government to trade and industry and through MTI to
KAITECH assures that this component, TIC of KAITECH, will be sustained in the
future.
19.       KERI under the jurisdiction of MOST is the only electrotechnology
research institute in Korea. It is firmly believed that there is no
sustainability problem with KERI. It services SMI in the electrical
engineering industry in Korea, which is a priority field in the country's
long-term technology-intensive development.
H.   Bank's Performance During Proiect Cycle
20.       Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  Bank's performance on this project
was in general satisfactory. The time spent on the early part of the project
cycle, from identification at the end of CY87 to loan signing in early CY89,
is below average. The staff input during this period (33.5 staff weeks) is
also low and reflects the strong cooperation the Bank received from highly



competent local officials. Bank staff contribution during implementation was
also satisfactory in providing timely assistance on how to avoid procurement
delays and a possible extension of the Closing Date. This was achieved with
total staff input for supervision of about 18 staff weeks (TabLe 10). The
output/input ratio was therefore highly favorable. KERI's performance was, on
balance, somewhat less satisfactory than that of the other components in terms
of slower procurement and disbursement. Additional attention to KERI by
supervision missions could have been beneficial.
21.       Lessons Learned.  Given the simplicity of project design and its
successful implementation, there were no major lessons to be learned. A more
modest lesson concerns the relative performance of the project institutions.
While the performance of two components was commendable, the performance of
the third (KERI) was less satisfactory. Procurement and disbursement for KERI
were slower and there was no response to the Bank's last two supervision
missions' requests for its cooperation on PCR work. (The submission for Part
II of the PCR was finally received in December 1993). This problem could
probably have been avoided, if more Bank staff time had been spent in the
field focussing on KERI. Table 10 indicates that only 5.9 staff weeks were
spent in the field for supervision during four fiscal years.
I.   Borrower's Performance During Project Cycle
22.       Maior Strengths and Weaknesses.  The performance of TIC was
outstanding. Procurement of equipment was achieved ahead of schedule.
Disbursement of the $7.0 million loan allocation for this component was
complete, and there was no cancellation for the TIC component. Work on the
PCR was also excellent. There was neither cost nor time overrun. All of this
was achieved without any prior experience in Bank project implementation.
Moreover, the cooperation with all Bank missions during the whole project
cycle was impeccable. The performance of KAIST was also fully satisfactory.
KAIST had prior experience with Bank project implementation and therefore only
a minimal effort was required from Bank visiting missions to make this
component a success. The weakness was with KERI. While the Bank missions'
input to KERI was about the same as that for TIC, the result was less
satisfactory. KERI was less responsive to advice offered by the Bank such as:
the techniques to make up the time loss caused by the initial delays in
equipment procurement; points related to the expiry dates of letters of
credit; the steps to be taken for the speedy and timely recovery of funds in
the Special Account before loan closing; and the need for completion of all
activities before the Closing Date. However, KERI did not incur any cost or
time overrun, and therefore overall performance of KERI should be considered
satisfactory.
23.       Lessons Learned.  Again, there were no major lessons to be learned.
However, one point worth noting is that institutions without prior experience
with implementation of Bank projects can perform as well as those with such
experience. This may have resulted from effective early start-up assistance
from the Bank and the dedication of competent local implementation staff.



-8-
J.   Proiect Relationships
24.       ImDact of RelationshiDs on Proiect Implementation.  The
relationship between the Bank and the three institutions in this project was
excellent at the start-up period of project implementation. This could have
contributed to the lack of major problems during project implementation and to
the excellent performance of an institution without prior experience with Bank
projects. The relationship remained highly satisfactory with two
institutions, throughout the implementation period but deteriorated with the
third institution during the later months of project implementation. This was
due in part to a certain lack of responsiveness by local staff to the Bank's
advice and also to insufficient face-to-face contact in the field between
local and Bank staff. Ultimately, the impact was minimal, no major
implementation problems arose. A minor problem on the need for cooperation on
PCR work, however, did arise. KERI did not produce a Part II report on
schedule, in spite of numerous requests from Bank missions. Other
relationships, such as those between the Bank and the two related ministries
and those between component institutions and industry are satisfactory.
K.   Consultinz Services
25.       There was no technical assistance in this project.  There were also
no studies or fellowships.
L.   Proiect Documentation and Data
26.       Adeauacv of Staff Appraisal Report. Maior Workinz Papers and the
Lezal Agreement. There is no evidence of any inadequacy in the Staff
Appraisal Report, major working papers or the Legal Agreement.



-9-
II PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(BY KAITECH, June 1993)
1.   General Remark
Part II of the project has been implemented as planned without any
significant alteration, and KAITECH achieved most of the project
objectives as described in the loan agreement and staff appraisal
report.
2.   Rename of Implementing Agency
In consequence of organizational change, ITC (Industrial Technology
Center) was renamed KAITECH (Korea Academy of Industrial Technology) on
October 12, 1989. There has been no virtual alteration in the functions
and activities of ITC. This was formally notified to IBRD, and the Bank
confirmed it.
3.   Procurement
The procurement of project equipment has been made largely in
cooperation with OSROK under ICB procedure. OSROK executed 10 bids for
us during 1989-1991, and concluded contracts for 60 items or US$6.5
million. Other 12 contracts of US$0.5 million were made through bids
conducted by KAITECH in 1992.
A few items had certain troubles at the time of installation or test
operations but by now all have been cured and in normal operation.
4.   Civil Works
KAITECH-TIC's new building has been constructed between August 1990 and
February 1992. It is a 5 story building with a total floor space of
12,844m , and housed 56 items of project-financed equipment including EMC
Anechoic Chamber. An additional building has also been built to house
Explosion Proof Testing System. The remaining 15 items have been housed
in existing buildings.
5.   Disbursements
The revolving fund of US$800,000 maintained in the Special Account
enabled KAITECH to efficiently settle payments. However, there were a
few occasions that we had cash flow problems because of slow
replenishment or reimbursement from IBRD.
Soon after the recovery of advance commences, towards the end of loan
disbursements, it is inevitable for a borrower to use its own fund for
timely payments, and then apply for reimbursement. If this had been
more directly mentioned in para. 5.14 or somewhere in Disbursement
Handbook, it might have helped many people.



- 10 -
6.   Visiting Missions
Throughout the project period the visiting missions played a valuable
role. Well experienced and understanding peculiar problems or
situations, they did not spare effort to help implementing agencies in
far details where letters can not reach while carrying out their own
mission faithfully.
7.   Effects of the Project
KAITECH's major objectives are to strengthen the foundation of
industrial technology through R&D activities and to provide advice and
technical services to small and medium industries.  The loan project
contributed to expand KAITECH's capacity and capability to carry out
such objectives.
Please refer to DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT attached to the pro-formas
for Part III of PCR, for more details.
D I R E C T    B E N E F I T S   O F   P R O J E C T
1.   In general, KAITECH's capability to support SMI through its various
activities including test and inspection services has grown up
noticeably. This is suggested by the increase in revenue from both
ordinary operations and R& D projects of Test and Inspection Center
(TIC) which is the main beneficiary of the project within KAITECH. The
change is apparent as follows.
Catezories           FY 1987       FY 1992
Operations
(service fees)       2,009      4,464 Won Million
R&D Projects           422       2,399
Government
Contributions        3.008       3.873
Total Revenue        5,439       10,736
With regard to R&D projects, please refer to the following:
FY 1987      FY 1992
No. of research subjects               18         31
No. of reports  -written               12         15
-published                    6         16



- 11 -
2.   The project contributed to enhance technical level and also to expand
technical capacity of TIC. Selected topics are:
-TIC became a member of IECEE/CB Scheme, representing Korea, and its test
reports are recognized in member countries.   Although the objective
items are limited to IEC-950 category, i.e., "information technical
equipments including electrical business equipment", it is expected to
expand the international test items to IEC-65 category for household
electronics and IEC-335 category for household electrical appliances.
-With the new and powerful equipments TIC can perform tests better than
before. Electro-magnetic field strength measurement, for example, was
carried out only in an open site but now it can be done in the
laboratory. For this and by virtue of the automatic measuring system,
SMI can get test reports in 10 days or so instead of one month. EMI
measurement range also expanded to 22 GHz from I Ghz. The reliability
of data improved, and mutual recognition with foreign institutions
became more active.
-TIC's calibration and measurement service to SMI has been the largest
one in amount in the nation. It added two more technical fields of
measurement recently, for TORQUE and IMPACT on material properties.
Calibration ranges in many fields expanded; in case of radiation
temperature measurement, the measurable temperature was 7000 C to 1,7000
C. But now lower temperatures between minus 200 C and 750° C can be
measured also.
-The advance is seen also in chemical field of technology, that
determination of toxic chemicals in air, water and working environments
is available in its laboratories.
-The following fields should be added to the list of capacity that are
expanded through the loan project.
Fatigues test / dynamic property test
Microstructure study /  micro beam analysis
stress analysis
Magnetic components test
SMPC (switching mode power supply)
Explosion proof test
Non-destructive test
CNC machining



- 12 -
II.  Review from Borrower's PersDective
(by KAIST, for KIT, June, 1993)
1.   Expansion plan for the educational facilities
The Construction unit for KIT is as follows:
Classification           Building Unit               Reference
Land Space               369,858 m2
The        Educational          42,402 m2
Building   Facilities
Space
Support
Facilities          16,840 m2
Residential
Facilities           39,131 m2
Total            98,373 m2
Project Period                  1983 -1989
Total Required
Expenses                  29,335 million won
Due to the shortage of the educational facilities at KIT, KIT planned to
construct the buildings of No. 5 and No. 6. However, this plan has been
postponed by the merger of KAIST and KIT.
The financial resources for the construction of the buildings of No. 5 and
No. 6 were converted to expand the buildings of National Science, Applied
Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering.
- The unit for the expansion is as follows:
Buildings       Expansion   Construction          Construction Period
Unit         Expense
Natural Science      6,515 m2   2,809 million won  '91.12.30-'92.12.24
Applied
Engineering          1,197 m2      450
Mechanical
Engineering          2,650 m2      994
Total          9,998 m2   3,753 million won



- 13 -
2. Loan process for the final outcome of the executive plan
* The loan processs
AnnuaL Execution    190       '91          192   | 93         Total
Votum    60 Item    100 Item    100 It=   -          260 it     l
Piln
AAount    1,200,000   2,100,000    2,100,000        5,400,000
Final   Vokum    49 Item    88 Item   103 Item    8 Item    248 ite
out                                                        I
come    Amount    764,049.89  1,605,903.54  2,777,852.70  174,085.62  5,321,891.75
* Schedule for the processing plan
3.   The Effect
KIT acquired a lot of laboratory work equipment with the help of both
governmental support and IBRD loan in order to recover our prior shortage of
educational facilities at KIT. With the history of years, KIT has been
evaluated as one of the top 30X of all the universities in the U.S. by the
ABET, an evaluation institution for engineering education in the U.S. In
addition, the support from Korean government and the financial resources from
IBRD Loan had played an important role in the development of KIT. Especially,
248 laboratory work equipments, which couldn't be acquired by government's
budget because ofo the high price, have been obtained by this project. To
keep up with the most advanced equipments and to fill the shortage of our
equipments, we need to increase our efforts in acquiring more equipments.



- 14 -
Project Review from Borrower's perspective
(Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute)
1. General Remark
Loan project has been satisfactorily carried out as scheduled except only one item of Cold
Isostatic Press but KER.I has now had significant facilities and equipment capabilities in
the electric material field and good new R2D buildiag.
2. Total Numbers of Items procured
Total Numbers of Items procured by loan has come up to 45 including Helium Liquefier System
Set, Hot Isostatic Press and others.
3. Impact of Loan Project to SRI
As described in the Staff Appraisal Report vritten December 2. 1988, small and medium-sized
industries in Korea have been playing very izportant parts to the growth of Korean economy
for past 20 years. Accordingly Korean government, taking it into consideration that SKIs
are the majority of Korean economy, has been making polices for the development and
fostering of SMIs. From this point of view, all the facilities and equipments procured by
loan project are nov being utilized valuably for the research and development of electric
materials, for example, functional materials, magnetic materials, supe?cmndu=ring material.s
and others, as well as for the testing of finished electric zaterials manufactured by local
industries.
4. Civil Works
For the placement and installation of facilities and equipments, K2Ri has completed the
construction of a new i&D building with the 2.640mn  of 3 stories.  The commence of
construction of that building was made in July, 1991 and completion in April 1993.



- 15 -
5. Acknowledgement
KERI would like to express acknowledgement to many IBiD missions, inter alia, Mr. S.Z. Sung,
procurement consultant and Mr. W. E. Rees, principal economist.  In fact, if KERI had not
got IBiD loan then, it was pretty difficult for KERI to secure the izportant and valuable
facilities and equipments indispensable to the RBD and Testing sections.
In particular vmen KERI was in difficulties for execution, Mr. S. Z. Sung gave lots of
advice and recommendation to Mr. Myung Pyo Hong and MflI has successfully achieved loan
project
as scheduled without big blunder.
LEEI would like to express again the hearty thanik to Mr. S. Z. Sung and Mr. W. E. Rees for
their kindness and deep consideration.



rART Ul
sEAISTICAL WNPORMATIO
kt RELATED BANK LOAN
Table 1:           IllDI)A I OANS)CRIlDTrS RELEVANT TO TIl  PrROJECT
l/Cre<it Noumber                           Year of
rroject Txic                               Apps.vl                   lacof Project                                                Stans                                    Comm__ts
C  151- K()                                    %'69                  Rsp..n  an  f -v. sti l high schoolt                         (bsaplctcd0996                           Successsl project
Fm  1Ed2,1ucai.u lVoja.t                                            junior tcchnaul- Mcges and eacb                                                                        Salisfaceoly iulxcenaetd
trains5g
Ina 916,i'r 394- KKO                          19)3                   Is     1-.1enl md bm-bih                                    C('rluqked IZ/19                          lal4emcalnied SubsanlLiFlyas
Scond Education F',oject                                            scho4sjunlor tIccbaical collcVs nd                                                                     planned. Line magemect
K i-nce. engin-intg and Jucalloencllcges.                                                             evolved from 1I'rject
Iniplcmcrsttion lunil
IA 1096-KO                                    1975                   llmpansiou and quAmiy iummpovenamnt in                       Comsplacd I l/bl                         Succcssidly impicmcaled
TnirdEducation Pqjoet                                                vncatiosal higb schools. jnlorcollcgc                                                                 wkh growing cxperioce sad
and vocatlnal trainssg n titulcs.                                                                     co,mpetnce of local stuft
(VI IS)
ta 1474
Vocational Training l'iojct                   1977                   lmU1,1tme cup"lm"   I VI Is. ard                            (C.snpu,leJ t0l/hl                        I'C(  concluded that tbc
expeaslsn and imro ,ven,aut of                                                                        prF,oel was wrildcallgac.
hstructor lItaiing.                                                                                   implcnisctcd cfftkksly and
judged it to be - exccllcmt
example to Bamk/llloFFrOWT
La 1800-KO                                    1950                   Iniqpsovirg juuim I echaical collees and                     C.mplottd 2Oh                          A sector prot1am In
Scitor Program on I lIi cr                                          coflgcs of cnginccring and                                                                              uccessfrally
Tochnscal Education                                                  managemcatlthrough supply of                                                                          Impletnedmetl
equipment. staltdevelopment.
mnipower 1lanning. equipment
miaatenancc amd accdenmic
ac Ciditatln
La 2427-KO                                    1984                   H.iirml the qualiy f acieucc and                             Comuleted 06/h9                          A second sCtor program
Progatm for Scicnce and                                              technology education to indadUrds                                                                     ausccsfully isapleented
Technology Edactio                                                   required bys more skill-and                                                                            vrith alplsnnedpolicyand
knowiedge-intensive hndusirial system                                                                  m stitutional changcs fully
tbrough planned pdiry and atstitutloaal                                                                achicvtd.
change.
La 3202-KO                                    1990                   Inuiroving the Frscaith capacity of onc                      Elfective on 11/08i90                     ITcing implemcnal
Secood rec'"bhnlroy Advarcs meant                                    leading grduate Kh ool k rckece sad
Proitct                                                             cngieedring sad ash ancing R and D
capaciics in the rteas of Bisobcbholgy.
basl and iodustrial sandards. and
cnoigy and rcsourcc utilrmtion.
LA 3203-KO                                    1990                   Enhancing bai rcscareb programs b                            Effleivc on I IA8/90                      Bcig implcmncad
Lb ienixics Science sad                                             selected iavenuies hi priorty Seis bh
Technology Reach xrojet                                              cience and technology mtd Improvitg
ciencec Ecarhrr tsahinp



17 -
I !           5}
I
IL~~~~~
i      '3    S|iX 1    .            Sg||z:}
I    i.        I              -     
1}  1       An! .51       L         ,. 



- 18 -
B. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Table 2: PLANNED. REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECTTTMETABLE
ITEM                        PLANNED                                  ACTUAL
Identification Misson                     NovemnoeriDecemDer 1987                   November/Decemoer 1987
Preparation bv Government                 Januarv 1988 to J unc 1988                January 1988 to June 1988
Pre-Appraisal Mission                     June 1988                                 June 1988
Appraisal Mission                         October 1988                              October 1988
Loan NezotiaLions                         January 1989                              January 1989
Board Approval                            April 1989                                April 1989
Loan Signature                            May 1989                                  May 1989
Loan Effectiveness                        August 1989                               August 1989
Project Completion                        June 1992                                 December 1992
Loan Closing /a                           Decemner 31. 1992                         December 31. 1992
/a,           Date oi closing of the loan account was June 18. 1992 with the cancellation of
USD96.244.79, although the loan was closed on schedule on December 31. 1992.



Korea
Technology Advancement Project
Time Line of Planned and Actual Project Tlmetable
L oan Closing
Project Completion
L oan Elfectiveness
Loan Signing
Bodrd Approval
Loan Nugoliations
Appraisal Mission
-S   Actial
Pre-appraisal Mission
Preparation
Idewiliicalion
FY1987        1988          1989         1990         1991         1992         1993
sads\w54763



- 20 -
C. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
Table 3:   CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
BANK FY                               1990       1991      1992       1993
APPR,ASAL ESTIMATES                    5.4        11.2      15.6       16.4
ACTUAL                                  1.8       5.5       11.3       16.3
ACTUAL AS % OF ESTIMATE                 33        49         73         99
DATE OF FINAL DISBURSENIENT      April 12. 1993
DATE OF LAST TRANSACTION         June 18. 1993
FOR FULL RECOVERY OF THE
INITIAL DEPOSIT OF
USS400.000 TO KERI



Korea
Technology Advancement Project
Time Line of Planned and Actual Disbursement Schedule
US $ mdllon
100-
90-
80-                                                                         .
70-                                                         ./
.'68
60-
50
40                                      ,
30-
.  ,                                              * ---- Planned
20 -  ¢   /Actiual
20-
10 -
O-u0-                                                                I           _   __    _   _I_        _   _
FY 1990               FY 1991               FY 1992                FY 1993
sads\w54763b



D. p'R01InCr IMPI.LEM KNIAIION
Table 4:   PLANNED AND) AcT tUAl. COMPIlTllN DATUS OP COMPONENTSA
Pirojet                                    Planned                     Actual  --asplelion          MomI.h of delay             Prc ea.ag.
Compolneats                               Completiom  Dale                 Date                      (or advance)               dirfereaces
(--for advance)
Ko_es Acadey Rof!ndustrial Trccnololy(KAlIEC1IlYb
Civil Works                               Auguist 1991                 I:cbfuaiy 1992                           6               22%
Equipnicnl                                Juine 1992                   Dcccrubcr 1992                           6               16 %
Korea Advanced Inslitutc of Science and Techcogo  (KAISTYb
Equipmuent                                June 1992                    Decencbcr 1992                           6               169e
Ko!ra EcIc!!-SchnoIou Researchlnstitute (K! 11!)c
Civil Works 
Equipment                                 June 1992                    Deceniibe 1992                           6               16%
There was so extension of Cloing Dale for this Loan.
b             BBased on reporbt ftom KAITECII and KAIST.
IC            Report fronm KERI has not been recieved.



It. IROJ1gCr COSTI AN!) PINANCING
Tablc 5.  (I!tJIS(1 (()l  (I)S  lmillion)
COMPONENT                 APPRAISAL                                             ACTUAL                                   PERCENTAGE
ESmIMATe                                             COST                                     CtLANGE OP TOTAL
l.OCAI.  FOREIGN                1TOTAL               LOCAL   FORElGN lTOTAL
KAIlECH (ITC)                   4.2          9.9                 14.1                 4.9          8.0          12.9        -8.5%
KAIST(KIT)                      2.9          6.2                 9.1                  0.4          5.3           5.7        -37.4%
KEItI        /a                 2.2          4.6                  6.8                  -            -             -
1'OlAI.                         9.3          20.7                30.0
Not available as KERI did not submit information as requested.
Similar to the other two components, Bank's estimatc
was that it was also a cost underrun.



lTahlc 6:    PROIICr FINANCING (USS million)
SOURCE OF FUNDS                        PLANNED                   FINAL                     PERCENTAGE
(as in SAR)                                         CIIANGII OP TOTAL
IBRD Ependiture Cate2ories
l:quilb6n"t                                 16.4                      16.3                     -0.6%
IDomestic flnanqfng
KArrmcI i                                   4.9                       5.6                      14.3%
KAISl                                                                                            -
KI3RI       1 
lotal
a            While KAIST has submitted information on ctvil works achieved and expenses incurred, the data could
not he cornpared with SAR figures. ilierefomt the linc could not bc completed.
to           K>L 11 did not submit inforniation as rcqucstcd.



- 25 -
Table 7:     AlLOCATlON OF LOAN PROCEEDS (USS)
ORIGINAL                              AL-A
ALLOCATION                            DISBURSEMENT'S /a
KAIST b
(I.) Equipment and materials for         5.400.000                             5.321.890.97 Id
KIT under Part A of the Project.
KAITECH Ic
(2.) Equipment and materials for         7,000.000                              7,000,000  Ie
ITC unaer Part B of the Project
KERI
(3.) Equipment and materials for         4.000.0000                            3.981.864.24 /f
KERI unaer Part C of the Proiect
Subtotal                    16.400.000                            16,303.755.21
Anmount of Loan Cancelled
96,244.79
/a           Based on memorandum from Marie Khoury, LOAAS to William E. Rees. EA1PH dated June 30,1993.
_0          The Korea Institute ot Technology (KIT) has been merged into the Korea
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST).
C           'MThe Industrial Technology Center (ITC) has bcoomc a part of Korea Academy
of Industrial Technology (KAITECH).
d           .No adjustment
KAITECH over disbursed from SDecial Account by S1269.49 due to foreign exchange adjustments.
f           KERI over aisbursed from Special Account by 2,496.01 due to forcign exchangC adjustmCaL
Total of /c and If is S3.765-50 and this represnts the undisbursed amount KERI
from its Loan Account. When S3.755.50 is added to KERI's disbursement of 53.978.098.74
Actual disbursement from KERI should be S3,981.864.24.



- 26
F. PROJECT RESULTS
Table 8: DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECT
(a) KAITECH
(i) Increase of Revenue
Categories                      Korean FY 1987                   FY 1992
(before the Proiect)             (after the
Proiect)
Operations (services fees)            2,009                      4,464 millon won
R & D Projects                           422                     2,399
Government Contributions               3.008                     3.873    n    Po
Total Revenue             5.439                    10.736 million won
Percentage increase in Revenue is: 97% (including Government
Contribution) and 183% (excluding Government Contribution).
The Project helped the Testing and Inspection Centers (TIC) of KAITECH
in increasing its revenue.
(ii) Increase of Research Work
Percenta-e
FY 1987      FY 1992      Increase
No. of research subjects               18           31           72%
No. of Published reports                6           16          167%
The Project helped increase both the quantity and quality of research
work.
(iii) Institutional Benefit
TIC because a member of IECEE, an international agency on Certification
of Electrical Equipment, as a result of higher level of equipment and
higher standard and wider scope in testing, inspection and
certification.



- 27 -
(b) KAIST
KIT acquired a lot of laboratory equipment with the help of both
governmental support and the IBRD loan in order to overcome the prior
shortage of educational facilities at KIT. KIT has been evaluated at a
level equivalent to one of the top 30% of universities in the U.S. by
the ABET, an evaluation institution for engineering education in the
U.S. In addition, the support from the Korean government and the
financial resources from the IBRD loan played an important role in the
development of KIT. In particular, 248 items of laboratory equipment,
which could not be financed locally because of current budgetary
constraints, have been procured under the project.
(c)   KERI
Forty-five items of equipment were procured and these are helping to
strenghten KERI's capacity to carry out R&D activities in support of
SMIs in the electrical industry.



- 28 -
G. STATUS OF LOAN COVENANTS
Table 9:   COMPLIANCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
Section No. in Loan       Para No.                                             Status of Compliance and
Agreement                 in SAR        Description                            Deadline Dates, if applicable
4.01                      3.15          Furnish to Bank annually Audit         By June 30 of each year.
Reports including separate opinion     In full compliance.
on Statements of Expenditure and
certified copies of financial
statements
5.01                      3.09         Manage each project components          In full compliance.
under supervision of qualified and
experienced staff and with adequate
numbers of competent supporting
staff



- 29 -
H. USE OF BANK RESOURCES
Tablc 10:   STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEKS
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE                              PLANNED                                FINAL
HO                       FIELD              HO                   FIELD
Throuah Appraisal                      60                        30                30.2                  16.0
Appraisal-Negotiations                 10                        -                 3.1
Negotiations- Loan Signing             2                         -                 0.2
Supervision                            24.5                      8                 17.8                 5.9
PCR                                    7                        2                  3.0                   1.0
otbers (proJea Admin)                  1.5                       _                  I.S
Toul                                                             40



Tabk II:   MISSION DATA BY SIAU(IS Oil' PROJECT
Misioa                                        Moi lbIYcer                     No. of PersoO                  StafI Week                      Performasce Sltats by Activity 
la PicIJ
Identilicalion                                 11-12/87                        2 (1'1.:,1)                     6
Preparation (by Govi)                          1/88- 6/88                      - -
I'Rc-apjl aisal                                6/88                            2 (P I'E1 F)                    4
Appraial                                       10/88                           3 (P I ,, I(PCA)
Subtotal                                                                                       16
Supervision I                                  10-11/89                        1(1IE)                          1.6                             ;              I               I               I
Supervision 11                                 6-7/90                          1 (lI1)                         0.8                             2              1               1               1                                  0
Sulwcvijiusl III                               2- 3/91                         1 ( I)                          0.5                             2              2               1               1
Sul rvisioma IV                               10- 11/91                       2 (I . ISi)                    2.0                             2              1               1               1
Sulrvilij,i V                                 5 - /Y2                         1 ( I P                         0.5                             2              1               1               1
Supervisi.n VI                                 11-12/92                        1 (1I                           0.)                                            I
SubtaI                                                         5.9                             1.7             l.l             1.0             1.0
'CR                                            4/92 amid 5/92                  1 (I L)                         1.0
'I'otal                                                        22.9
La              PE =  'rincipal Economist; TE = T'ecchnical Educator, PCA = I'lojcct Cost Analyst;
ITS = I ndustial Training Specialist
/b              1- FilalsliAsl; M - Ntallagrtial; I = Ievelkpluetil lilasc; (I -        t t all Sttalb



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOE
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3037-KO)
PARTICIPANTS IN COMPLETION MISSION1/
World Bank
Sing-Zak Sung, Consultant, Technical Educator
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology
Nam-koo Lee, International Affairs Section
Korea Academy of Industrial Technology
Paik Soo-hyun, Director General, Test and Inspection Center
Chun, Jung-woo Chief, Planning Section, Test and Inspection Center
1/    The compietion mission was undertaken as part of the supervision mission
for all Korean education and technology advancement projects in November
1992.



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KORE
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCEMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3037-KO)
RECORD OF PROGRESS REPORTS SUBMITTED
1.    Status Report (May-Oct. 1989) from Korea Academy of Industrial
Technology, November 1989.
2.    Status Report from Korea Institute of Technology, November 1989.
3.    Progress Report from Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute,
November 1989.
4.    Report on the Progress Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation from
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology of which Korea
Institute of Technology is now a part, June 1990.
5.    Status Report from Korea Academy of Industrial Technology, June 5, 1990.
6.    Progress Report from Korea Electrotechnology Research Institute, June
19, 1990.
7.    Report on the Progress and Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation
(for the period August 10, 1989 to February 15, 1991) from Korea
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, February 1991.
8.    Report of the Progress and Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation
(for the period from June 20, 1990 through March 5, 1990) from Korea
Electrotechnology Research Institute, March 6, 1991.
9.    Progress Report (as of February 23, 1991) from Korea Academv of
Industrial Technology (KAITECH, formerly Industrial Technology Center,
ITC), February 23, 1991.
10.   Report on the Progress and Status of IBRD Project Implementation (for
the period May 31, 1989 to Oct. 15, 91) from Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology, October 15, 1991.
11.   Status Report from Korea Academy of Industrial Technology (as of October
23, 1991), October 24, 1991.
12.   Present Status of Loan Project (as of October 24, 1991) from Korea
Electrotechnology Research Institute, October 24, 1991.



- 33 -
13.   Report on the Progress and Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation
(for the period from August 10, 1990 to May 15, 1992) from Korea
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, May 22, 1992.
14.   Status Report from Korea Academy of Industrial Technology (as of May 19,
1992), May 19, 1992.
15.   Present Status of Loan Project (as of May 20, 1992) from Korea
Electrotechnology Research Institute, May 20, 1992.
16.   Report on the Progress and Status of IBRD Loan Project Implementation
(for the period from August 10, 1989 to November 1, 1992) from Korea
Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, November 4, 1992.
17.   Status Report (as of November 12, 1992) from Korea Academy of Industrial
Technology, November 12, 1992.
18.   Present Status of Loan Project (as of November 15, 1992) from Korea
Electrotechnology Research Institute, November 15, 1992.



