                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank

                                                            Report No: ICR2246




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT



                                          ON A

               MULTI-DONOR JAVA RECONSTRUCTION FUND GRANT

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.98 MILLION


                                         TO THE

             INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR MIGRATION (IOM)

                                        FOR AN

 ACCESS TO FINANCE AND CAPACITY BUILDING FOR EARTHQUAKE-AFFECTED
                    MICRO AND SMALL ENTERPRISES



                                     March 22, 2012




Financial and Private Sector Development (FPD) Department
East Asia and Pacific Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (IDR)
               Exchange Rate at ICR, March 22, 2012
                       IDR 1.00 = US$ 0.00011
                      US$ 1.00 = IDR 9,149
           Exchange Rate at Project Closing, June 30, 2011
                     IDR 8,610= US$0.00012
             Exchange Rate at Appraisal, June 25, 2008
                     IDR 9,285 = US$0.00011

                              FISCAL YEAR
                            January - December

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

   AMC                            Asian Management Consulting
   BAPPEDA                        Regional Planning Agency
   DESPERINDAGKOP                 Department of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives
   DIY                            Daerah Istimewa Yogyakarta (Yogyakarta Special
                                  Administrative Region)
   FGD                            Focus Group Discussion
   FM                             Financial Management
   FMR                            Financial Management Report
   GDP                            Gross Domestic Product
   GOI                            Government of Indonesia
   GIZ                            Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH
   IBRD                           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
   IDA                            International Development Association
   IOM                            International Organization for Migration
   ISA                            International Standards of Auditing
   JRF                            Java Reconstruction Fund
   KADIN                          Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
   M&E                            Monitoring and Evaluation
   MFI                            Micro Finance Institution
   MSEs                           Micro and Small Enterprises
   MOF                            Ministry of Finance
   MLI                            Multi-Lateral Institution
   NGO                            Non Governmental Organization
   OM                             Operations Manual
   PAS                            Project Accounting System
   PDO                            Project Development Objective
   PID                            Project Information Document
   SME                            Small and Medium Enterprises
   TA                             Technical Assistance
   TTN                            Tim Teknis Nasional, National Technical Team
   UN                             United Nations
   UNDP                           United Nations Development Programme

                   Vice President:      Pamela Cox
                 Country Director:      Stefan G. Koeberle
                  Sector Director:      Tunc Tashin Uyanik
             Project Team Leader:       Nancy Chen
                ICR Team Leader:        Nancy Chen
Acknowledgements: The ICR was peer reviewed by Anita Hendricks, JRF Secretariat.
                                      REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                    Access to Finance and Capacity Building for Earthquake-Affected
                                      Micro and Small Enterprises


                                                     TABLE OF CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .............................................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes ......................................................................................................... 12
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................................ 19
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................... 19
6. Lessons Learned....................................................................................................................... 21
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........................... 22
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...........................................................................................23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................................24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................................36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..............................37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................................39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results...................................................................40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................................41
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................................48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ......................................................................................50
MAP ...............................................................................................................................................51
A. Basic Information
                                                                    Access to Finance and
                                                                    Capacity Building for
                                                                    Earthquake-Affected
Country:               Republic of Indonesia Project Name:          Micro and Small
                                                                    Enterprises in
                                                                    Yogyakarta and Central
                                                                    Java
Project ID:            P109804               L/C/TF Number(s):      TF092951-IND
ICR Date:              11/11/2011            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    FIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    INDONESIA
Original Total
                      US$4.48 Million         Disbursed Amount:     US$5.98 Million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:       US$5.98 Million
Environmental Category: B
Grant Recipient: International Organization for Migration (IOM)
Executing Agencies: International Organization for Migration




Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                          Revised / Actual
     Process             Date            Process         Original Date
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        10/05/2007   Effectiveness:        12/12/2008        12/12/2008
Appraisal:              6/25/2008   Restructuring(s):        N/A            05/12/2010
Approval:              09/10/2008   Mid-term Review:      10/15/2009        10/23/2009
                                    Closing:              05/31/2010        06/30/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                     Low
Bank Performance:                                            Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                        Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                Ratings             Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:          Satisfactory    Government:              Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision:    Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                               Rating
      Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                           Quality at Entry
Project at any time              No                                    N/A
                                           (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                    Quality of
                                 No                                    N/A
time (Yes/No):                             Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
                            Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                        Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
MSE Finance                                              67               67
Trade Facilitation and Market Access                     33               33




Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Micro and Small Enterprise Support                         100             100

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                   At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:         Pamela Cox                    James W. Adams
Country Director:       Stefan G. Koeberle            Joachim von Amsberg
Sector Director:        Tunc Tahsin Uyanik            Tunc Tahsin Uyanik
Project Team Leader:    Nancy Chen                    Hormoz Aghdaey
ICR Team Leader:        Nancy Chen
ICR Primary Author:     Hiran Herat
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives

The overall objective of the project was to contribute to the Government of Indonesia (GOI)
initiatives to support the recovery of micro- and small enterprises (MSEs) in Yogyakarta and
Central Java and enable them to reach at least their pre-earthquake capacity through enhanced
access to finance and targeted technical assistance.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Not applicable.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

             Results Indicators                 Target   End of Project         % of Target
                                                                                 Reached
     Component I
        1. Number of selected MSEs        4,300          4,456            104%
           registered in the project
           database
        2. Percentage of women            30%            41.8%            140%
           beneficiaries
        3. Number of assessments          25             25               100%
           conducted
     Component II
        1. Number of MSEs having          3,000          3,032            101%
           received and using assets
                                                         1/
        2. Number of production/public
           facilities restored


     Component III
                                                         2/
        1. Number/percentage of MSEs
           increased their net business
           income 12 months after loan
           disbursement
     Component IV
        1. Number of MSEs that have       4,000          3,876            97%
           improved access to markets
                                                               3/
        2. Number of MSEs                 450            628              142%
           participating in fairs and
           Expos
     Component V
        1. Number of MSEs                 4,300          4,342            101%
           participating in TA
        2. Number of MSEs with            4,300          4,206            98%
           financial records which
           previously had none.
        3. Number of MSEs with            4,300          4.049            94%
           business plans which
           previously had none
        4. Number of workshops/forums     40             43               108%
           conducted for government                      4/
           capacity building
1/
   One community center, 1 irrigation system, 18 production facilities, 3 sales showrooms, 52 communal
livestock pens, 9 biogas plants, 150m drainage canals upgraded, 237m of community roads rehabilitated.
2/
   Component III was canceled as a result of project restructuring. Funds under this component were
transferred to other components.
3/
   Two thousand two hundred thirty participated with product contributions.
4/
   This additional indicator was incorporated in conjunction with the project‟s extension until June 30,
2011.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                            Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                    IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1    02/11/2010           Satisfactory       Satisfactory                      1.94
  2    05/24/2010           Satisfactory       Satisfactory                      2.76
  3    05/08/2011           Satisfactory       Satisfactory                      4.30


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions

                                                           Allow the project to properly
                                                           implement an exit strategy,
                                                           ensuring sustainability beyond
                                                           project closure; and also allow
                                                           extended assistance to already
                                                           supported beneficiaries that
   5/12/2010         No           S        S   1.94
                                                           remain vulnerable combined
                                                           with targeted capacity-building
                                                           activities    for   the    local
                                                           governments and other local
                                                           institutions.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.     The overall project development objective (PDO) was to contribute to the Government of
Indonesia‟s (GOI) initiatives to support the recovery of MSEs in Yogyakarta and Central Java
and enable them to reach at least their pre earthquake capacity through enhanced access to
finance and targeted technical assistance.

2.      Specific project objectives aimed to: (i) kick-start earthquake-affected MSEs by restoring
basic production facilities, replacing livelihood equipment and purchasing production inputs; (ii)
assist MSEs in accessing finance to resume their business activity; (iii) strengthen financial
management and entrepreneurship skills of affected MSEs in order to facilitate a durable long-
term recovery that takes into account pre-earthquake capacity deficits of enterprises; (iv) assist
MSEs to recover lost buyers and restore markets through a series of market promotion initiatives;
(v) generate employment opportunities within the MSE sector by stimulating the growth of
existing enterprises; (vi) promote long-term business strategies and sustainability of income
generating activities while taking into account environmental and social implications; and
(vii) promote the inclusion of women and vulnerable groups.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

3.      On May 27, 2006, a massive earthquake (registering 6.3 on the Richter scale) struck the
populous south-central coast of Java, killing 5,744 people and severely damaging basic
infrastructure, housing, schools and clinics. In districts across Yogyakarta and neighboring
Central Java, 350,000 houses were damaged beyond repair and 278,000 suffered lesser damage.
Besides housing, damage and losses to businesses in the productive sector were considerable,
adversely affecting the livelihood of about 116,000 inhabitants. The reconstruction efforts of the
GOI was impressively effective and as of June 2007, more than 80 percent of affected houses
were repaired or replaced, and good progress had been achieved in repairing the infrastructure.
Despite this success, however, according to a report from the Java Reconstruction Fund (JRF) in
late 2007, the region had not yet recovered from the profound economic impact of the disaster.

4.       An April 2007 business survey conducted by the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) concluded that the recovery of the productive sectors in both provinces had
made substantial progress, with 95 percent of the affected entrepreneurs having resumed some
form of activity and 47 percent having reached pre-earthquake activities1. Effective community
self-help strategies (locally referred to as gotong royong) had been a major factor behind this
recovery. The report, however, indicated that about 53 percent of the affected enterprises were
still struggling to recover from the earthquake damage and were not in a position to do so
without external support. The main constraints for full recovery were: (i) access to finance for


1
 UNDP Livelihoods Survey of Businesses Affected by the May 2006 earthquake in Yogyakarta and Klaten
Province, Situation Analysis and Needs Assessment, April 2007.



                                                    1
both fixed and working capital investment; (ii) loss of buyers markets; and (iii) inadequate basic
business skills in many fields including in financial administration, product development and
marketing.

5.      The JRF supports the Indonesian Government‟s efforts for the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of Java following the 2006 earthquake in Central Java and Yogyakarta and a
subsequent tsunami in West Java. The program, supported by donors, provided grants for the
implementation of five post-disaster reconstruction projects in Java. The GOI and the JRF
identified the need for livelihood recovery efforts to support the large number of micro, small
and medium enterprises (MSMEs) impacted by the 2006 earthquake and issued a call for
proposals in 2007. The International Organization for Migration (IOM) and Deutsche
Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH (GIZ) were selected to implement two
separate but complementary projects designed to support the recovery of livelihoods in
earthquake-affected areas of Yogyakarta and Central Java. Both projects2 complemented each
other by providing different solutions for different types of beneficiaries, meeting a broad range
of needs.

6.      The project3 aimed to assist the restoration of the MSEs by addressing the main barriers
to their recovery through a comprehensive package of targeted assistance in coordination with
and complementing the efforts of the GOI and the donor community.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.      The overall objective of the project was to contribute to the GOI's initiatives to support
the recovery of MSEs in Yogyakarta and Central Java and enable them to reach at least their pre-
earthquake capacity through enhanced access to finance and targeted technical assistance.

8.     The progress of the implementation of the project was to be measured by utilizing the
following key indicators:

    (a) Component I: “Assessment for Identification for Interventions/Targeting Beneficiaries?
          Number of selected MSEs registered in the project database.
          Percent women beneficiaries.




2
  At the beginning there was only one project, which was later decided by the Steering Committee to be split into
two, implemented by the IOM and GIZ.

3
  The Project was chosen as one of 20 outstanding projects to showcase at the Innovation Lab of Financial and
Private Sector Development (FPD) Forum 2010 taking place on March 2, 2010. The focus of the Innovation Lab is
on innovative and rapid response efforts to help clients to deal with the financial and economic crisis. The session
intends to offer a great opportunity to spread project knowledge across the Bank and IFC and across regions.




                                                          2
      (b) Component II: “Asset Replacement?
          Number of MSEs having received and using assets;
          Number of production/public facilities restored.

      (c) Component III: “Access to Finance?
          Number and percent of MSEs increased their net business income 12 months after
           loan disbursement.

      (d) Component IV: “Assistance for Market Access?
          Number of MSEs that have improved access to markets
          Number of MSEs participating in fairs and expos.

      (e) Component V: “Capacity-Building Technical Assistance?
            Number of MSEs participating in TA;
            Number of MSEs with financial records which previously had none;
            Number of MSEs with business plans which previously had none;
            Number of workshops/forums conducted for government capacity building.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

9.       The original PDO was not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

10.     The main beneficiaries were the earthquake-affected MSEs, local government entities
and civil society. It was assumed that assistance to one MSE would benefit one family; as a
result an estimated 12,600 beneficiaries were expected to be supported by the project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

11.      The project consisted of six components as follows:

12.    Component I. Assessment for Identification of Interventions/Targeting Beneficiaries
(US$0.4 million). Under this component, the recipient International Organization for Migration
(IOM) was expected to conduct livelihood, market and environmental surveys in order to fine-
tune the implementation strategy for assistance to MSEs. Livelihood surveys included focus
group discussions, stakeholder interviews and quantitative asset and income surveys using
IOM‟s assessment teams which had been trained in livelihood assessment through the previous
and ongoing livelihood projects in Yogyakarta and Central Java.


                                                3
13.     Component II. Asset Replacement (US$0.9 million). Under this component, IOM was
expected to purchase goods and provide them as in-kind support to restore infrastructure and
physical assets that were essential for operations of MSEs, such as production facilities,
livelihood tools, irrigation systems, small roads, warehouses, sheds, pens and other essential
small-scale infrastructure. Based on the needs articulated by the MSEs and after review and
analysis of the assessment studies, IOM was to procure the materials and deliver them to the
communities for hand-over. The intervention was to be provided for highly vulnerable but
viable enterprises that were unable to resume operations because of loss of or damage to
essential equipment, production facilities or supporting infrastructure and which were unable to
secure loans since their business revenue was small or non-existing and loan provision would
likely lead to defaulting loans, an additional obstacle to recovery.

14.     Component III. Access to Finance (US$ l million). Under this component, small loans
were to be provided to MSEs, including community enterprises, associations, cooperatives, etc.
Small loans were to be disbursed based on business concepts submitted by members. Funds
under this component were to be channeled through Permodalan Nasional Madani (PNM - as the
Apex institution) to participating Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs) which were to be selected
based on predefined criteria. IOM was expected to sign a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) with PNM, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, in order to transfer funds to
PNM on a non-reimbursable basis to finance subprojects for the benefit of eligible MSEs, and in
accordance with the guidelines, procedures and criteria set forth in the Project Management
Manual. PNM was to assist the IOM in selecting and monitoring of the financial intermediaries
and was to help provide technical assistance to these intermediaries in their lending activities as
necessary. In addition, IOM was to ensure financial expertise would be provided as necessary to
ensure proper and transparent management of loan funds. PNM was to on-lend proceeds to
selected MFIs at an interest rate of not more than seven percent annually, with a repayment
period of not more than five years, also in close coordination with the Deutsche Gesellschaft für
Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH, German Technical Cooperation (GIZ) (the parallel
livelihood implementer under the JRF program) to ensure consistency of approach between the
two projects. MFIs were expected to on-lend the project funds at market rates to MSEs and to
assume the credit risk of their final transactions with eligible MSEs on their balance sheet. The
MFIs were expected to repay interest and principal of the funds received from PNM. PNM was
to recycle the funds through MFIs to continue to assist eligible MSEs in the region in line with
the overall project objectives after the project closes. It was expected that the reflow of funds by
PNM would be within the 10 year period specified in the grant agreement.

15.      Component IV. Assistance for Market Access (US$0.3). Under this component, the
project was expected to finance TA to help MSEs recover former buyers and customers or to
identify new ones. Activities were to include facilitating exhibitions, organizing cross-visits of
successful operating MSEs in the same sector and marketing events, conducting market studies,
and improving access to information. The Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry
(Yogyakarta Chapter) (KADIN) was selected as the implementing and advisory partner through
its various business associations, utilizing its knowledge of and access to local business as well
as its broad networks in government and private sector. For the purpose of this component, IOM




                                                 4
and KADIN had concluded a Letter of Intent that was officially supported by the Chairman of
the Provincial Planning Development Board (BAPPEDA) of Yogyakarta.

16.     Component V. Capacity Building Technical Assistance (US$0.7 million). Under this
component, the project was to invest in TA and training for skills development and capacity
building for the MSEs. Training envisaged under this component included entrepreneurial skills
such as financial management and marketing and business plan development. Where
assessments showed that benefits might be yielded from an intensified level of cooperation
between producers, TA was to facilitate the formation of producer groups and the establishment
of related management systems. Groups were also provided with the necessary skills to assess
market developments by themselves, so that they were enabled to adjust their business activities
in the future and after the end of this project.

17.    Component VI. Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.1
million). Under this component, the project financed all costs associated with management,
implementation, and supervision of the project incurred by the IOM. Of this amount, about
US$0.3 million was for monitoring and evaluation. In addition, this amount included IOM's
organization overhead fee of US$0.2 million (5 percent of the total estimated costs).

1.6 Revised Components

18.     Component III. Access to Finance was delayed due to the continuous difficulties in
concluding a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between IOM and PNM in accordance
with the provisions of the Grant Agreement. As the negotiation of a MOU was not4 concluded
satisfactorily, in response to government‟s request, the JRF Steering Committee endorsed and the
Bank approved the relocation of US$600,000 from “Component III – Access to Finance? to
Component IV–Access to Market and Component V–Technical Assistance & Capacity Building.
The decision took into consideration of the emergency situation and the urgent need for rapid
economic revitalization in the affected regions. Access to Finance component as such will,
however, continue to be facilitated to the IOM assisted MSEs by referral of IOM beneficiaries to
the JRF Livelihood Recovery Project for delivering of credits to the MSE. The IOM project
helped to make its beneficiaries more ready to take on credit from MFIs by providing financial
training, so that they could access finance from other sources. The inter-agency coordination was
made possible as both projects covered similar geographic locations, and the cooperation had
created more synergy over the JRF program.

19.     The task team believed that reallocation of funding from Component III did not
negatively affect the achievement of the PDO. Component III–Access to Finance contributed to
one out of five intermediate outcomes of the overall project (accounting for 13 per cent of the
total project cost); thus the adjustment was not expected to lead to a significant shift in content of
the overall project. Although many of the targeted MSEs continued to need extra financing
support to sustain their recovery and growth, such micro-financial services were being made


4
  This was mainly due to cost/benefit considerations, as PNM, the Apex, would also intermediate a significantly
larger credit fund under the Livelihood Recovery Project implemented by the GIZ.



                                                         5
available on a much larger scale through the parallel Livelihood Recovery Project implemented
by the GIZ, also funded by the JRF program, as well through the rural banks (Bank Perkreditan
Rakyat / BPR), government programmes (Program Nasional Pemberdayaan Masyarakat Mandiri
/ PNPM Mandiri) and cooperatives. Following the cancellation of the Component III and project
restructuring in May 2010, a training program was developed to built capacity of the MSEs to
assess their financing needs, select an appropriate financial service provider and prepare credit
applications to MFI already available in the project area, including but not limited to banks
funded by the JRF Livelihood Recovery Project through PNM as the apex institution. By project
closing, 468 MSE participants of this initiative had accessed micro-credits5.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

20.     The project closing date was extended from May 31, 2010 to June 30, 2011. The
mandate of the JRF had also been extended to December 31, 2011. The JRF Administration
Agreement was revised accordingly to reflect the new closing date of the JRF program. The
reasons for the extension of the project‟s closing date included: (i) the Bank agreed with the
recommendation put forward by the JRF Steering Committee to give a longer timeframe for
scaling up of local government‟s capacity to ensure sustainability of project results after project
closure; and (ii) the GOI had on several occasions brought to the attention of the implementing
agency additional needs and gaps still remaining in the target area. In response to these
gaps/needs as well as the importance of achieving sustainability, the extension of the closing date
was expected to allow a viable sustainability and exit strategy/action plan to be implemented as
well as to provide additional financing.

21.     Based on item (ii) above, IOM requested and received top-up funding of US$1.5 million
from the JRF to reach an additional 1,300 MSEs still in need of support and to scale up
government capacity-building and to develop and implement an action plan for effective project
transition and exit. Additional financing was granted to deepen the existing project activities of
Components I, IV and V.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

22.     In line with the GOI's National Action Plan for Reconstruction and Rehabilitation one
year after the earthquake, the main focus of activities was expected to shift from emergency
assistance to the revitalization of the regional economy and livelihood. Specific intervention in
sectors and districts that had not received support or had recovered to a lesser degree were


5
  Data reported by the training implementer on 1 July 2011, Rekap Data Peminjam Paska Pelatihan „Access to
Finance‟, Bina Swadaya Konsultan, 1 July 2011.



                                                       6
identified by the national and local authorities. The priorities included: (a) recovery of industry
and service sectors with a focus on small-scale industry, agriculture and tourism; (b) recovery of
the financial service delivery to improve access to finance for Small and Medium Enterprises
(SMEs); (c) recovery of market access for earthquake-affected SMEs; and (d) sustainable natural
resource management in anticipation of increased environmental exploitation. The project was
designed to be fully in line with the above priorities.

     Creating Ownership through Community-Driven Approach. The project adopted a community-driven
     approach, which endeavoured to achieve immediate and lasting results at the grassroots level. This
     approach entailed:
             (a) giving more control of decisions and resources to community groups;
             (b) treating the target groups as assets and partners in the recovery process, and;
             (c) building on existing community institutions and resources.
     By directly involving the beneficiaries to drive their recovery process, programming was made more
     demand-responsive, sustainable and cost-effective. Involving the community in the assessment (the
     project‟s Component I) was particularly important as members of the community were found to be the
     most informed and reliable sources of information regarding their own assistance priorities.
     The project also sought to engage the communities in the targeting and sector prioritization process, as
     community stakeholders were well positioned to determine who was vulnerable and most in need, in
     the common absence of other formal sources of information.
     At the implementation stage, IOM mobilized financial and in-kind counterpart contributions from the
     beneficiaries and local government toward initial start-up costs and recurrent operation and
     maintenance costs of services restored or created through the project. Such contributions were effective
     in creating community ownership while ascertaining that interventions responded to real demand.



23.    In addition to the above, the design of the project took into account lessons learned from
the implementation of previous recovery activities undertaken in Central Java and Yogyakarta
Special Administrative Region (DIY). These lessons included the importance of: (i) community
and government ownership and their involvement at all stages of preparation and
implementation; (ii) transparent targeting of beneficiaries; (iii) provision of a comprehensive
package of technical as well as financial assistance to MSEs; (iv) an effective outreach program;
and (v) robust monitoring arrangements to ensure targeted beneficiaries were reached and that
funds were used for their intended purpose.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

24.     The project implementation progressed smoothly. The project benefited largely from the
strong capacity of the local and international staff recruited by IOM, immediately following the
earthquake in 2006 to facilitate a series of emergency responses and reconstruction projects also
implemented by IOM. The retention and continuation of these staff by IOM enabled a fast start
to the project. In addition, IOMs local implementing partners, in particular Bina Swadaya and
KADIN, had demonstrated adequate capacity to implement training in the project in a timely and
effective way that met the needs of MSEs. KADIN was an existing partner of IOM in previous



                                                        7
livelihood projects. It had signed a Letter of Intent, setting forth the terms of a collaborative
framework with IOM for implementation of Components IV and V of the project. KADIN and
the sector associations organized under it undertook several activities to support the project. The
MSEs also participated actively in the design and implementation of interventions and continued
to contribute both time and material resources to sub-projects, enhancing further the ownership
factor as an important determinant for sustainability. IOM also coordinated its initiatives closely
with the counterparts in the national, provincial and local governments.

25.     By the Mid-Term Review (MTR), all components, except Component III–Access to
Finance, were being implemented. Component III as originally planned was cancelled and the
achievement of its objective transferred into the project‟s extension phase, when the project
assisted its beneficiary MSE in accessing finance already available on the market, such as that
offered through the parallel JRF Livelihood Recovery Project (see section 1.6 for details).

26.      The project implementation also faced a number of constraints associated with: (i) case of
asset replacement that did not meet required specifications or experienced difficulty in operating;
(ii) climatic variations and pests affecting output levels in crop production sectors; (iii) price
volatility affecting primarily livestock and fishery sectors; and (iv) delays in project
implementation due to the eruption of the Mt. Merapi volcano in October-November 2010.
Given the deterioration and unpredictability in safety of the environment resulting from this
eruption, IOM reduced its field staff level for a period of 10 days, while maintaining only
essential staff members who could help to safeguard business continuity. While these events
caused delays in implementation, the overall negative impact on the project was minimized
following: (a) IOM‟s decision not to shut down the office and operation nor evacuate national
and international staff; (b) absence of JRF beneficiary villages within the local government's
designated exclusion zone, meaning that IOM had continued access to its beneficiaries
throughout the period; (c) the relatively short duration of the crisis; and (d) impressive dedication
of national staff to maintain project services to beneficiaries.

27.     The project closing date was also extended from May 31, 2010 to June 30, 2011. Please
refer to paragraph 19 for details. In line with the extended mandate of the JRF program and its
remaining unallocated funds, IOM also requested and received top-up funding of US$1.5 million
from the JRF to reach an additional 1,300 MSEs still in need of support (see Section 1.7 above).
The project was not considered at risk any time during implementation.




                                                 8
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

28.     A robust M&E strategy was essential to ensure that the project objectives were met,
program quality was maintained, and lessons learned were taken into account both during
implementation and for future assistance programs. To this end, about US$275,000 was provided
under the project. The project was monitored by the project manager based in the field to enable
timely corrective actions and project adjustments as necessary. An M&E officer reporting
directly to the head of the sub-office provided an additional layer of monitoring and
accountability. The M&E officer focused especially on beneficiary eligibility, partner
accountability and quality of training. The project benefited from an existing Livelihood
Database for beneficiary performance tracking with a detailed livelihood asset and income
profile of each beneficiary. The database was expanded and used as a key management tool for
the project. This data was also used at project closing to conduct a before-and-after impact
evaluation. IOM closely followed the development of the supported MSEs throughout the life-
cycle of the project through field visits by trained IOM field staff. Success criteria for each
supported business and benchmarks, as determined in the relevant business plan agreed with the
beneficiaries, were assessed by IOM teams. The results helped IOM decide on additional or
corrective measures and troubleshooting where business development was determined to be
unsatisfactory or stagnant.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

29.     Environmental Aspects. The project was classified as Environment Safeguards
“Category B? since it was considered unlikely to lead to significant adverse social and
environmental impacts. The project was to promote businesses that did not undermine the
natural resource base on which the long-term viability of livelihood strategies depended. No
major adverse environmental impacts were expected since the scale of most MSEs was expected
to be small. Environmental issues that were expected to emerge in the project were: (i) potential
contamination of surface and/or ground water from improper effluent disposal or
leakage/spillage of wastewater; and (ii) poor solid waste management and housekeeping. No
environmental issues were encountered during implementation.

30.     The proposed MSEs were screened via a negative list approach and environmental
screening and assessment were conducted as a separate activity by an environmental consultant
firm (CV. Triguna) for those sectors supported by the project that potentially created negative
impacts on the environment. The study examined the raw materials used, methods of excavation
(where applicable), emissions from the production processes and helped to identify alternative
methods of production and use of technology where necessary and feasible, as well as alternative
mitigation measures. The study also examined public health effects of clusters and identified
possible health hazards for producers, communities and buyers.

31.     The social impact was expected to be positive, as the project assisted MSEs affected by
the earthquake to revitalize their businesses and to re-integrate affected low income communities
back into sustainable economic life. The project focused particularly on remote communities
which had received little assistance at that point. There was no land acquisition and resettlement



                                                 9
envisaged under the project as the MSEs affected were not new enterprises and hence did not
require any new land. The overall safeguards implementation has always been satisfactory.


32.     The fiduciary aspects of the project (financial management and procurement) were rated
as “Satisfactory? during project implementation. FM reports were submitted on time and no
major issues were noted. The financial management system provided timely and accurate
information required to manage and monitor the implementation of the project. The project audit
reports were also submitted on time with clean audit opinion.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

33.     The project formulated an exit strategy that aimed to facilitate the continuation of
existing activities and their sustainability after its completion. The exit strategy was conceived
through consultations with the government, MSE beneficiaries, village officials and civil-society
organizations.6 The strategy was officially endorsed by the government participants on March 3,
2011 (Yogyakarta province) and on April 12, 2011 (Central Java province), marking an
important accomplishment for the project and its prospects for sustainability. In these workshops,
officials expressed their commitment to taking forward IOM and JRF project initiatives in line
with their available resources and assessing remaining needs of the beneficiaries.

34.      The exit strategy focused on achieving four main sustainability outcomes, namely:

      (a) Self-Sufficiency

      (b) Institutional Capacity Development

      (c) Effective Linkages

      (d) Handover Processes for Continuation

35.    This strategy contained action plans linking priority activities with specific government
departments.

36.     Sustainability Outcome 1: Self-Sufficiency. The project implemented a program of
trainings to promote self-sufficiency and business sustainability. As elaborated above, the project
achieved good results in this regard with improvement recorded in terms of productive assets,
market area coverage and profits, results which are expected to be sustained thanks to the



6
 Towards the closing of the project in February and March 2011, the exit strategy was revisited in separate
workshops with the governments of the two provinces with the aim of assessing progress of its implementation and
making necessary adjustments needed for the strategy to remain effective, as agreed by the stakeholders.



                                                      10
project‟s investment in skill-building and organizational capacity development. Beneficiary
investments in the project (a total of US$57,000 by project closing), including labor and material
inputs, also enhanced ownership of these results.

37.    A total of 173 producer groups were created, which provided services to their MSE
members after project closing. In addition, the project promoted access-to-finance for these
groups through capacity-building activities and referrals to MFIs.

38.    As an added value element, community-based disaster mitigation and preparedness
measures aimed to reduce risk exposure of the beneficiaries to common hazards identified in
each recipient community. These measures contributed to reducing vulnerability of the
beneficiaries and to better protecting targeted income-generating activities from potential
impacts of future natural disaster after project completion.

39.     Sustainability Outcome 2: Institutional Capacity Development. Recognizing the need to
scale-up government capacity-building for sustainability, the project introduced government
capacity-building workshops as part of the project‟s second phase. Through this intervention,
integration of disaster risk reduction in the recovery process of the region was expanded beyond
the community. Workshops and training for the Regional Disaster Management Agency, and for
a number of other government departments, were expected to help strengthen disaster prevention
and management capacity of local actors, which will benefit the local communities even after
project closing.

40.     The project capitalized on the perceived urgency of disaster reduction in the region
following the eruptions of the Mt. Merapi volcano during October and November 2010. Disaster
risk reduction mainstreaming was also promoted through awareness-raising utilizing TV, radio
and printed media.

41.    Additional workshops and learning trips transferred effective livelihood project
management approaches adopted by the project, which the Central Java provincial government
emulated in the implementation of its own disaster risk reduction program, which was set to
include a strong livelihood component. Indeed, at the government request, IOM shared the
Bank-approved Operations Manual with the government of Central Java.

42.     Sustainability Outcome 3: Effective Linkages. The project implemented initiatives to
enhance interface between project beneficiaries and the local governments. For example, person-
to-person links and new relationships were created with the local governments in the target areas
as basis for collaboration and provision of additional services to the beneficiaries after the project
completion.

43.     IOM also conducted assessments of the MSE jointly with the government to agree on
priority needs and geographical targeting. These joint assessments ensured adequate buy-in of
the government already at the planning stages and secured its willingness to subsequently
continue to invest in sub-projects.




                                                 11
44.     Sustainability Outcome 4: Handover Processes for Continuation. The exit strategy
workshops identified outstanding needs and assistance gaps still prevalent among the
beneficiaries targeted by the project. During the first quarter of 2011, work plans linking activity
continuation with specific government departments were agreed and endorsed. To help local
governments to take these commitments forward, IOM prepared a handover package in Bahasa
Indonesia, which included the agreed exit strategy, work plans, maps, beneficiary lists and
profiles, contact details of group leaders and detailed lists of all assets and training activities
provided.

45.     The project advocated for allocation of government funds under relevant departments to
support continuation. Some districts indicated that funds indeed were allocated for the project‟s
target villages. 7 During the final months of implementation, the project continued to transfer
responsibilities to local governments, by attending Musrenbang, a grass-roots government-led
consultation to promote broad-based budgeting and development planning. As the final step, the
project carried out evaluation workshops with the local governments, to agree on „best practices‟
learned from the project that can be replicated in the context of new recovery, rehabilitation and
reconstruction initiatives in Indonesia.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

46.     Government partners and MSE beneficiaries assessed the design of the project and its
implementation as meeting the needs of the intended beneficiaries. Officials in the workshops
stated that the project‟s approach and activities were effective, useful and appropriate in relation
to the PDO. They also noted that the implementation was adequately inclusive and had
encouraged substantial involvement of the government planning agencies (BAPPEDA) and
sector departments in planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation. Government
officials regarded coordination and joint planning with the implementing agency as a key project
success factor. Such coordination and planning had improved as the project evolved and
coordinating mechanisms were fine-tuned, which minimized overlapping between government
projects and programmes and the activities of the implementing agency, thus ensuring a more
targeted and needs-based reconstruction process.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

47.    The project achieved the set targets by the closing date on June 30, 2011. Adequate
financing from the JRF and recognition of the necessity to provide an ample implementation


7
 Government funding allocation was based on locations and villages, rather than individuals and groups. While all
project districts were encouraged to allocate funding for sustainability, only Bantul, Gunung Kidul and Klaten
district governments made explicit statements to IOM regarding this intention.



                                                       12
timeline to effectively address the complexities and diverse set of needs prevalent in the target
area were decisive factors for an overall satisfactory project implementation. These were
effectively combined with strong project implementation oversight and technical guidance
provided by the World Bank task team.

48.     Importantly, the IOM‟s internal Impact Evaluation, conducted over the period of April to
May 2011, identified good and concrete outcomes that were achieved for the MSE beneficiaries
in terms of a sustainable MSE recovery from the effects of the 2006 earthquake disaster.
Resulting from the project interventions, combined with other favorable factors supporting the
MSE operating environment, the Impact Evaluation recorded improvements in business and
financial performance, which was measured in terms of sales, operating profits and access to new
markets. 87 percent of the MSEs have regained their pre-earthquake level or better, with a
notable 77 percent of the beneficiaries stating that they had exceeded the pre-earth quake levels,
thus having been „built back better‟ through their recovery process. Nevertheless, some
challenges faced by the MSEs pertained to issues in their wider operating environment, which at
times affected the overall profitability and sustainability of certain MSE clusters and industry
sectors. Such issues will of course remain an important challenge for the region and will require
further attention and action by the local stakeholders to promote an enabling MSE growth
environment or by identifying alternative and more financially sustainable livelihood options,
where needed. The achievement of the PDO is, however, considered Moderately Satisfactory, for
reasons stated in paragraph No. 60.

49.     Component I. Assessment for Identification of Interventions/Targeting
Beneficiaries. Under this component, the IOM conducted livelihood, market and environmental
surveys in order to fine-tune the implementation strategy for assistance to MSEs. Livelihood
surveys included focus group discussions, stakeholder interviews and quantitative asset and
income surveys. The results achieved were as follows: (i) number of selected MSEs registered in
the project database reached 4,456 as compared to the target of 4,300; (ii) percentage of women
beneficiaries among the MSE‟s accounted for 42 percent versus the target of 30 percent; and (iii)
the number of village assessments conducted was 25, meeting the originally intended target.

50.      Component II. Asset Replacement. Under this component, IOM was expected to
purchase goods and provide them as in-kind support to restore infrastructure and physical assets
that were essential for the operation of MSEs, such as production facilities, livelihood tools,
irrigation systems, small roads, warehouses, sheds, pens and other essential small-scale
infrastructure. Asset replacement reached 3,032 MSEs, exceeding the target of 3,000. These
MSEs received tools, processing equipment and construction materials. The asset replacement
component had the effect of significantly enhancing the fixed asset base of the beneficiary from
an average of IDR 731,221 at project inception to IDR 3,347,663 at project closing. In addition,
utilization levels of these assets were above 90 percent. Under this component, assistance was
also provided to beneficiaries in establishing a total of 18 new cooperative production facilities
in the crop production and livestock sectors, plus the completion and inauguration of an
irrigation system, a community center, 52 communal cattle and goat pens, nine biogas plants and
three product show rooms.




                                               13
                  Rehabilitation of an earthquake-damaged irrigation system. On
                  December 17, 2009, in Kebon village, Central Java, local government
                  and IOM celebrated the inauguration of the local irrigation system.
                  Previously, water was distributed unevenly to the rice fields as a result of
                  earthquake damage, negatively impacting yields per hectare. The new
                  irrigation system directly benefited 127 rice and vegetable farmers in
                  Kebon and surrounding villages. Productivity increased as water was
                  provided to 37 hectares of arable land – representing a 30 percent boost
                  from the previous 25 hectares. Furthermore, operating costs were lower
                  as water was not needed to be pumped any longer. The renovated system
                  had a significant impact on farm livelihoods in this community, in which
                  22 percent of the population lived under the poverty line and where 35
                  percent of houses sustained earthquake damages.
                 Source: IOM Press Release, December 17, 2009

51.    In addition, 150 meters of drainage canal was upgraded and 237 meters of community
roads were rehabilitated.

52.     Component III. Access to Finance. Under this component, small loans were to be
provided to MSEs. As noted in Section 1.6 above, delays due to the difficulties in reaching an
agreement between IOM and PNM in accordance with the provisions of the Grant Agreement
resulted in the re-allocation of funds from this component to other components. No activities
were concluded under this component. However, the Bank team believed that the reallocation of
Component III did not significantly impact the achievement of the project development objective
for reasons explained in section 1.6.

53.     Component IV. Assistance for Market Access. Under this component, the project
financed TA to help MSEs recover former buyers and customers or to identify new ones.
Activities included facilitating exhibitions, organizing cross-visits of successful operating MSEs
in the same sector and marketing events, conducting market studies, and improving access to
information. KADIN acted as the implementing and advisory partner, utilizing its knowledge of
and access to local business as well as its networks in government and private sector. Through
this component, 3,876 MSEs improved their access to markets out of a target of 4,000.
However, this was well compensated by the following statistics on marketing activities of the
MSEs. At project inception, almost no beneficiaries accessed markets beyond the village (desa)
or sub-district (kecamatan) levels. At project closing, 22.3 percent of the MSE stated that they
had penetrated district-level markets, 26.4 percent provincial-level markets and 11.4 percent
national-level markets. This increase can be linked to a strong emphasis in the project on
marketing activities, fairs and exhibitions at various levels. In addition, 628 MSEs participated
directly in fairs and exhibitions compared to the target of 450, and 2,230 MSEs participated with
product contributions.




                                                      14
                     Batik ‘Kebon Indah’ and Sarinah Plaza, Jakarta Seals a
                     Business Agreement. In October 2010, IOM, in partnership
                     with the German-Indonesian Chamber of Commerce
                     (EKONID) / Clean Batik Initiative (CBI) facilitated a business
                     trip by batik producers „Kebon Indah‟ from Kebon village,
                     Central Java, to Sarinah Plaza, a popular mall located in
                     Jakarta. The batik producers showcased their natural dyed batik
                     to Sarinah Plaza. The Director of Sarinah Plaza was impressed
                     by the quality of the products and placed an order and signed a
                     business agreement with the producers. This agreement
                     continued into November, with Sarinah Plaza placing a second
                     order. The business trip was enabled through IOM‟s
                     partnership with CBI to enhance the promotional activities of
                     the batik producers. Total sales recorded from the two orders
                     amounted to IDR 30,930,000 (approx. USD 3,400), a
                     significant sum for small Central Java-based batik producers.
                     IOM also facilitated new business links for the MSE, hence
                     increasing the prospects for new transactions well into the
                     future.



                     Central Java Goat Bazaar Yields USD 6,700. The Project‟s
                     goat rearing beneficiaries from Krakitan, Krikilan and
                     Jotangan villages, Klaten district in Central Java attended the
                     'Goat Bazaar Rowo Jombor 2010‟ just in time for the surge in
                     demand for goats resulting from Adha Ied 1431 H festivities
                     in mid-November. Goats fetched between IDR 800,000 to as
                     much as IDR 1.3 million per head during the weeklong
                     bazaar. Total sales figures were above the expectations of the
                     community, as this was the first time such an event had been
                     organized. 60 goats were sold, bringing in IDR 60,450,000 in
                     new income. The goat bazaar was organized through
                     cooperation between IOM, the Klaten local government and
                     the Indonesian Farmers Association (HKTI).

                    Source: IOM Quarterly Report to the World Bank, October 1 – December31, 2010

54.     Component V. Capacity Building Technical Assistance. Under this component, funds
were provided for TA and training for skills development and capacity building for the MSEs.
Training included entrepreneurial skills such as financial management and marketing and
business plan development. The MSEs responded well to technical assistance with satisfaction
levels averaging 94.4 percent. As a result of the TA and training, the participating MSEs were
able to: (i) record separately household money from enterprise money; (ii) calculate profits on
sales; (iii) able to provide for personal wages; (iv) developed and implemented a business plan;
and (v) have cash savings for emergencies. The results at project closing showed a marked
improvement across the board. While 98 percent of MSE were keeping financial records at the
group level, a total 41 percent kept track of their finances at the individual MSE level.




                                                    15
                          Productivity and public health gains for 101 cattle breeders.
                          The project supported 101 beneficiaries in this sector in Semoyo
                          village (Gunung Kidul District/Yogyakarta), where 448 houses
                          (73 percent) sustained earthquake damage and 20 percent of the
                          population lived below the poverty line. Training and technical
                          assistance was delivered in feed technology, communal pen
                          management and cross-visits with neighboring villages. The
                          project also introduced new feed fermentation techniques, which
                          allowed for local cattle feed production for at least two months
                          during the dry season, relieving farmers from the need to buy
                          commercially produced feed from external suppliers. Another
                          spin-off benefit was the increased amount of time farmers had
                          for community activities because of enhanced labor efficiency,
                          reducing the amount of manual labor input by 20 hours each
                          month per farmer. While beneficiaries have already incurred a
                          financial gain of IDR 240,000 per month for each head of cattle
                          as a result of the technical assistance trainings in feed
                          supplements, a gradual shift to modern cattle rearing techniques
                          will continue to increase productivity in this important economic
                          sector.
                          Source: IOM Quarterly Report to the World Bank, July 1- September 30, 2009

55.     Component VI. Project Management and Monitoring and Evaluation. Under this
component, the project financed all costs associated with management, implementation, and
supervision of the project incurred by the IOM, the implementing agency. IOM did an
exceptionally good job on its communications and outreach activities--contributing to
transparency and accountability in implementation and also conveying a positive image of the
project and the JRF with government, the community, and local, national, and international
media.

56.     During the final quarter in 2011, the project was tasked to undertake a final project
evaluation in line with a Terms of Reference agreed by the Bank and the JRF.8 Recognizing that
project success would be defined differently by different project participants, the evaluation
report drew its conclusions based on findings from government workshops in the two provinces 9
combined with those of focus discussions in sector-specific project villages undertaken by an
independent firm, Asian Management Consulting (AMC)10.

57.     In addition, and constituting a special feature of the evaluation, a comparative analysis of
the detailed baseline data collected from more than 3,000 beneficiaries in 2008 at project
inception vis-à-vis a 15 percent beneficiary sample of the target population at project closing,


8
  The objective of the evaluation was to: (a) evaluate the achievement of the project objective; (b) discuss the
relevance of the project objective, design and implementation; (c) discuss key factors affecting implementation and
outcomes; (d) discuss intended and unintended outcomes; (e) compile lessons learned; and (f) discuss sustainability
of impact after project closure.
9
  The government workshops for impact evaluation were held on April 28 (Yogyakarta province) and May 30
(Central Java province).
10
   Final Impact Evaluation Report: Focus Group Discussions Component, Asian Management Consulting, June
2011.


                                                         16
allowed the study to draw conclusions on aspects related to MSE business performance, recovery
and sustainability. The evaluation included a beneficiary satisfaction survey that was designed in
line with the special reporting obligations of the JRF to its donor countries.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

58.     The efficiency of project investment is rated Satisfactory. At appraisal, significant
benefits were expected from the successful implementation of the project. These included: (i)
kick-starting earthquake-affected MSEs by restoring basic production facilities, replacing
livelihood equipment and purchasing production inputs; (ii) assisting MSEs in accessing finance
to resume their business activity; (iii) strengthening financial management and entrepreneurship
skills of affected MSEs in order to facilitate a durable long-term recovery that takes into account
pre-earthquake capacity deficits of enterprises; (iv) assisting MSEs to recover lost buyers and
restore markets through a series of market promotion initiatives; (v) generating employment
opportunities within the MSE sector by stimulating the growth of existing enterprises; (vi)
promoting long-term business strategies and sustainability of income-generating activities while
taking into account environmental and social implications; and (vii) promoting the inclusion of
women and vulnerable groups. These benefits were realized through the project. Based on the
results achieved, the project is considered to be efficient.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

59.    Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.     It can be said that the project substantially contributed to the GOI's initiatives to support
the recovery of MSEs in Yogyakarta and Central Java and enabled them to reach at least their
pre-earthquake capacity through targeted technical assistance. The moderately satisfactory rating
is mainly attributable to the cancellation of component III resulting from unsuccessful conclusion
of the MOU between IOM and PNM. The decision took into consideration of the emergency
situation and the urgent need for economic revitalization in the affected regions. Access to
Finance component was facilitated to the IOM assisted MSEs by referral of IOM beneficiaries to
the parallel JRF Livelihood Recovery Project for delivering of credits to the MSE. (Please refer
to paragraph No. 5 and 18 for details).

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

61.    As mentioned in Component I above, the project exceeded its gender target with almost
42 percent of the MSEs assisted by the project being led by women. This outcome was primarily
a reflection of the key role women have as breadwinners among the earthquake-affected
populations, thus resulting in their substantial contribution to the overall recovery process. The



                                                 17
extensive involvement of women in the project led to measurable and positive changes in
perceptions regarding their de facto influence and decision-making power at the level of both the
enterprise and the community.

62.    As part of the pre-post intervention survey, the impact on women‟s decision-making
power at the household, enterprise and public levels was measured, with noticeable change
recorded at the enterprise level, the focus intervention of the project interventions. This has been
conclusively documented from this exercise with the following convincing statistics:

      Household Level: Few respondents described women‟s involvement as “none? or
       “small? from the start; nevertheless there was a moderate increase in respondents rating
       women‟s involvement as “average? at the post intervention stage. Overall, women
       seemed to exercise an acceptable level of decision-making power in household affairs
       among the affected populations, both before and after the intervention.

      Enterprise Level: At the enterprise level, significant gender impact had occurred
       following the intervention. “Average?-level involvement of women had increased from
       approximately 53 percent to 66 percent, while “substantial? involvement of women had
       increased from 12 percent to 31 percent.

      Public Level: Women‟s involvement in village and public affairs had also increased at
       the post-intervention stage. The number of respondents regarding women‟s decision-
       making power as “average? increased from 55 percent to 69 percent, while “substantial?
       decision-making power increased from 9 percent to 21 percent.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

63.     Institutional development was further promoted by engaging government agencies where
possible. Participation of the government in project implementation encouraged accountability,
built capacity, and enabled continued government assistance to target groups. Relevant
government bodies at the provincial and district levels were engaged in the project and provided
beneficiary MSEs with advice, input and additional training. Linking MSEs with these
government bodies created a long lasting relationship and benefited the clusters by the end of the
project. Recognizing the need to scale-up government engagement and capacity-building to
ensure sustainability in this area, IOM and the donors agreed to introduce government capacity-
building workshops as part of the project‟s second phase, which had a major focus on disaster
risk reduction. Workshops, training initiatives and study trips for government officials further
contributed to strengthening disaster prevention and management capacity of local actors, which
would benefit the local communities beyond the project‟s life.

64.     As it adopted project implementation approaches, the Central Java provincial government
(the disaster management agency) included a strong livelihood element in the context of its own
disaster risk reduction program. Additionally, in the second quarter of 2011, IOM facilitated a
field visit for senior officials of the national and provincial level Disaster Management Agencies
in preparation for a nationwide government-led community-based disaster risk reduction


                                                18
initiative called Desa Tangguh („resilient village‟). Also, recognizing the key role of local civil-
society entities and networks in furthering recovery and development efforts after project
completion, capacity-building workshops were extended to the Yogyakarta and Central Java
Disaster Relief Reduction (DRR) Forums.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

65.     Apart from directly assisting over 4,400 MSEs, the project contributed to the growth of
economic activities across earthquake-damaged target communities, increased cash flow and
intra-community purchasing power through trickle-down effects to other community members.
In addition, the project provided temporary labor/income opportunities to some of the poorest
community members, both men and women.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

66.    Government workshop participants assessed that the project had good impact on the
overall recovery process in the earthquake-affected target villages, and that the PDO was
relevant and in line with provincial and district-level recovery and development planning.
Assistance for MSE recovery was viewed as a key government priority and the project was
supportive and complementary to this goal. Importantly, government workshop participants
recognized that the development of a close relationship between IOM and the local governments
had been an important contributing factor to the achievement of the PDO. Community FGD with
MSE beneficiaries in all project sectors concurred that the PDO was relevant within the context
of supporting the post-earthquake recovery process. Detailed results of beneficiary satisfaction
survey are presented in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low

67.      The risk to development outcome was considered Low. The technical basis of the rating
is discussed in Section 2.5. The project achieved the set targets by the closing date on June 30,
2011, and the project formulated an exit strategy that aimed to facilitate continuation of activities
and their sustainability after its completion. The „best practices‟ learned from the project are
expected to be replicated in the context of new recovery, rehabilitation and reconstruction
initiatives in Indonesia.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

68.    Rating: Satisfactory


                                                 19
69.      The Bank responded in a timely manner though this project to the need of GOI‟s
initiative to support the recovery of MSEs in Yogyakarta and Central Java to enable them to
reach at least their pre-earthquake capacity through enhanced access to finance and targeted
technical assistance. The project design was innovative in that having a NGO working directly
with the government to develop the latter‟s capacity to carry out the activities under the project.
This feature has enhanced the project‟s overall impacts.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

70.    Rating: Satisfactory

71.     Project supervision was Satisfactory. Supervision missions were carried out twice a year.
The Bank team had a high degree of continuity, with adequate support from the local office. The
Bank was responsive to GOI‟s requests throughout project implementation, and demonstrated
flexibility and understanding in the use of project resources. Whenever required, the Bank
assisted the counterparts to amend the Grant Agreement as necessary in response to the changing
external environment and evolving country needs.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

72.    Rating: Satisfactory

73.    The overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory with a timely project in response to
the needs of the GOI and with working closely with GOI and the Implementing Agency, IOM,
through effective and quality supervision of the project.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

74.    Rating: Satisfactory

75.    The GOI worked closely with the Bank throughout the project preparation, and
negotiations and its performance was satisfactory. The close collaboration demonstrated by the
GOI with the Bank and the implementing agency during implementation was a critical factor in
the overall success of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency

76.    Rating: Satisfactory

77.    The performance of IOM throughout the project implementation was satisfactory. Good
quality project management, user-friendly technical advice and timely reporting were
appreciated by the government officials and beneficiaries.



                                                   20
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

78.    Rating: Satisfactory

79.    The overall Implementing Agency performance is rated as Satisfactory. The IOM
concluded the project successfully in a challenging environment, given the severe destruction
caused by the massive earthquake which damaged infrastructure, housing, schools, clinics and a
massive loss of life.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

80.    The following are „lessons learned‟ from the implementation of the project:

  (a) Ensure Government Involvement throughout the Entire Project Life- Cycle: (i) define
      clear parameters for government involvement and coordination, which should encompass
      frequent progress reviews, joint site visits and government capacity-building activities;
      (ii) engage all levels of governments, from national and provincial levels to district, sub-
      district and village levels; (iii) involve sector departments with expertise that meets the
      needs of the target groups. Early involvement of these departments is a prerequisite for
      responsibilities to be „transferable‟ at project closing; (iv) conduct needs-assessments
      jointly with the government to establish priority needs, sectors and assistance strategies;
      and (v) ensure that sufficient internal staffing and funding resources are allocated to
      government engagement activities, which at a minimum should include one senior staff
      member assigned to government engagement.

  (b) Leverage Existing Capacities and Resources of the Target Groups: (i) implement local
      concepts for effective decision-making, such as musyawarrah, (decision-making based
      on deliberation and consensus) and utilize other existing community support structures,
      including gotong royong (community volunteerism and mutual aid) for better
      sustainability; and (ii) encourage significant beneficiary counterpart contributions in all
      activities, including labor and material inputs, thus creating ownership through risk-
      sharing, for more cost-effective project implementation.

  (c) Establish a Robust Information Management, Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
      System: (i) ensure high-quality and timely report submission in the local language,
      targeting all relevant government institutions at national, provincial and local levels;
      (ii) make provisions for brief monthly reports in addition to in-depth quarterly reports.
      Accessibility and readability of such reports were viewed as critical by the recipient
      institutions; (iii) establish a dedicated information management and M&E team within
      the project with adequate expertise in data analysis, mapping software and monitoring
      and evaluation tools; and (iv) give the government a role in progress monitoring through
      reporting, implementation reviews and joint site visits.

  (d) Build in Flexibility in Project Design/Components: (i) ensure flexible definition of
      project components and budgeting for a demand- and needs-oriented project
      implementation that enables the team to quickly respond to diverse and specific needs of


                                               21
       the target groups and unexpected challenges; and (ii) allow for timely adjustment of
       project design when needed, in close consultation with the donors, government and other
       stakeholders.

  (e) Start Early on Project Continuation Planning and Sustainability: (i) design a viable
      project exit strategy and continuation plan agreeable to all stakeholders. As this is a
      complex and time-consuming exercise, it should commence in the early stages of project
      implementation; (ii) formulate the continuation plan through a process of consultation
      with beneficiaries, multiple levels of government and other stakeholders, and ensure
      regular reviews and adjustments to the plan from time to time during the course of the
      project; (iii) launch the continuation plan within the project implementation timeframe
      and create the conditions for it to be taken forward by beneficiaries and stakeholders after
      project completion; and (iv) view disaster risk reduction as a priority cross-cutting issue
      in the project implementation and integrate such considerations in project delivery for
      better disaster prevention, mitigation, preparedness and vulnerability reduction.

  (f) Effective Implementing Agency: A well-functioning implementation agency, staffed
      with competent and committed people who should be fairly remunerated is essential for a
      successful implementation of a multi-component and complex project.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

81.    None

(b) Cofinanciers

82.    None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                               22
                             Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                Appraisal Estimate                       Percentage of
           Components                               Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                          Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Component I – Identification of
                                        0.4                0.6                1.5
Interventions
Component II – Asset
                                        0.9                0.9                1.0
Replacement
Component III – Access to
                                        1.0                0.1                0.1
Finance
Component IV – Assistance to
                                        0.3                0.9                3
market Access
Component V – Capacity
                                        0.7                2.1                3
Building
Component VI – Project
                                        1.1                1.3               1.18
Management
            Total Baseline Cost         4.4                5.9               1.34
Physical Contingencies
                                           0.00               0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies
                                           0.00               0.00           0.00
            Total Project Costs            4.4                5.9            1.34
     Total Financing Required              4.4                5.9            1.34



(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal
                                                               Actual/Latest
                                        Type of     Estimate                  Percentage
           Source of Funds                                       Estimate
                                      Cofinancing    (USD                    of Appraisal
                                                              (USD millions)
                                                    millions)
Borrower                                              N/A          N/A           N/A
IBRD                                                   4.4          5.9          1.34




                                             23
                                    Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.      The Results Table below demonstrated that the project performed well in terms of
achieving the targets under each of the intermediate outcomes, with minor and acceptable
deficits only registered under indicators “Number of MSE with improved market access?
(97 percent achievement rate), “MSE with financial records? (98 percent achievement rate) and
“Number of MSE with business plans? (94 percent achievement rate). Table 1 below shows the
targets and achievements by the end of the project.

                              Table 1: Results Table at Project Completion
   Project Development      Project Outcome                       By Project Completion
                                                   Targets                                        % of target reached
        Objective               Indicator                             (30 June 2011)
                          # MSE reached pre-
  Recovery MSE to pre-
                          earthquake operating
  earthquake operating                               4,300                 3,908*                        90.9. %
                          capacities, sales and
  capacities
                          profits
       Intermediate
                              Intermediate                        By Project Completion
        Outcomes                                   Targets                                        % of target reached
                               Indicators                             (30 June 2011)

  Component I :           # village assessments       25                     25                           100 %
  Assessment for
                          # registered MSE           4,300                  4,456                         104 %
  Identification of
  Interventions           % women‟s MSE              30 %                  41.8 %                         140 %

                          # MSE received &
                                                     3,000                  3,032                         101 %
                          utilizing assets
  Component II:
  Asset Replacement                               1 community center, 1 irrigation system, 18 production facilities, 3
                          # production / public
                                                  sales houses, 52 communal livestock pens, 9 biogas plants, 150m
                          facilities restored
                                                  drainage canal upgraded, community road rehabilitated 237m
                          # MSE improved
                                                     4,000                  3,876                         97 %
                          access
  Component IV:
                                                                        628 (direct
  Assistance for Market
                          # MSE in fairs /                              attendance)
  Access                                              450                                                 142 %
                          expos                                      2,230 (MSEs with
                                                                    product contribution)

                          # MSE in tech.
                                                     4,300                  4,342                         101 %
                          assistance

                          # MSE with financial                      169 producer groups
                                                     4,300                                                98 %
                          records                                      (4,206 MSEs)

  Component V:            # MSE with business
                                                     4,300                  4,049                         94 %
  Capacity-Building &     plans
  Technical Assistance
                          # workshops / forums
                          conducted for
                                                      40                     43                           108 %
                          government capacity-
                          building
                          # risk-mitigating       2 retaining walls, 4 public latrines, 1 water cave reservoir system, 4
                          infrastructure          water wells exploration, 1 water channel irrigation rehabilitation, 3
                                                  evacuation routes and 1 land leveling as evacuation area
                                  Note: * 87.7 percent of the 4,456 MSEs assisted.
                                     Source: IOM Beneficiary Satisfaction Survey



                                                           24
Project Impact on MSE per Component
2.     The following section presents key findings that are attributed to impacts from the
individual project components.

Component I: Assessment of Identification for Interventions/Targeting Beneficiaries

3.      Under this component, the IOM conducted livelihood, market and environmental surveys
in order to fine-tune the implementation strategy for assistance to MSEs. Livelihood surveys
included focus group discussions, stakeholder interviews and quantitative asset and income
surveys using IOM Community Assessment Teams which had been trained in livelihood
assessment through an ongoing livelihood project. The results achieved were as follows:
(i) number of selected MSEs registered in the project data base amounted to 4,456 as compared
to the target of 4,300; (ii) percentage of women beneficiaries among the MSEs was 42 percent as
compared to the target of 30 percent; and (iii) the number of village assessments conducted was
25, meeting the intended target of 25.

Component II: Asset Replacement

4.      The comparison measured the average value increase of productive assets directly related
to the supported MSEs (i.e., this calculation does not factor in the value of other household assets
or assets related to additional income-generating activities of the beneficiary.) As can be
expected, the asset replacement component had the effect of significantly enhancing the fixed
asset base of the beneficiary from an average of IDR 731,221 at project inception to IDR
3,347,663 at project closing. In addition, utilization levels of these assets were above 90 percent.
Nevertheless, satisfaction levels were slightly lower (85 percent) resulting from cases of assets
not meeting quality standards or required specifications of the MSE. Table 2 presents the
satisfaction levels regarding asset replacement and Table 3 shows the economic sectors covered
and the number of beneficiaries.

 Table 2: Project Impact and Satisfaction Levels regarding Component II: “Asset Replacement?
     Component /
                           Pre-             Post-
       Impact                                                 Beneficiary Satisfaction Level
                       Intervention     Intervention
      Indicator
                                                       95.8 % of MSEs were utilizing individual
                                                       assets provided at project closure
                       IDR 731,221     IDR 3,347,663
    Component II:                                      94.2 % of MSEs were utilizing communal
    Asset                                              productive assets provided by the project at
    Replacement                                        project closure

    Productive asset                                   85.0 % of MSEs were satisfied or highly
    build-up                                           satisfied with the quality and durability of
                                                       assets at project closure
                                 +357,8 %
                                                       99.0 % of MSEs regarded assets as relevant
                                                       and technically appropriate for their income-
                                                       generating activity




                                                25
                     Table 3: Economic Sectors and Number of Beneficiaries
    Macro-Economic
                        Economic Sector      Income-Generation Sub-Sector       # MSEs   Share
    Sector
    AGRICULTURE         Livestock            Communal Cattle Rearing            1013     22.7 %
                                             Communal Goat Rearing
                                             Production of Organic Fertilizer
                                             Cultivation of Organic
                        Crop Production                                         1762     39.5 %
                                             Vegetables
                                             Cultivation of Cassava, Peanuts,
                                             Corn, Banana etc.
                                             Cultivation of Rice
                        Agro Food            Processing of Cassava, Peanuts,
    INDUSTRY                                                                    376      8.4 %
                        Processing           Corn, Banana etc.
                                             Production of Soya-Based Tofu
                        Food Packaging       Production of Ice Cream Cups       136      3.1 %
                        Textile Processing   Production of Batik Items          566      12.7 %
                                             Traditional Weaving of
                                             Household Napkins
                        Fishery              Communal Fish Pens                 162      3.6%
                                             Production of Silver Jewellery &
                        Handicraft                                              390      8.8 %
                                             Deco Items
                                             Production of Agel Accessories
                                             & Deco Items
                        Construction         Production of Zinc Roof &
                                                                                51       1.1 %
                        Materials            Ridge Tiles
                                             TOTAL:                             4,456    100%


Component IV: Assistance for Market Access

5.      The comparison also analysed changes in market access. At project inception, almost no
beneficiaries accessed markets beyond the village (desa) or sub-district (kecamatan) levels. At
project closing, 22.3 percent of the MSE stated that they had penetrated district-level markets,
26.4 percent provincial-level markets and 11.4 percent national-level markets (see Table 4
below). This increase can be linked to a strong emphasis in the project on marketing activities,
fairs and exhibitions at various levels.

6.      Nevertheless, market access assistance did not work for all beneficiaries, with only
73.3 percent stating satisfaction or high satisfaction with the effectiveness of this component. A
sector-disaggregated analysis reveals that the livestock sector beneficiaries, representing a large
22.7 percent portion of the total beneficiary population, were prone to dissatisfaction with this
component, likely resulting from unfavorable sales conditions/prices at the time of the survey.
38.3 percent of the livestock beneficiaries stated that they were “less satisfied? or “dissatisfied?
with the market access component, which can be compared to the overall average across all
sectors of 26 percent that were “less satisfied? or “dissatisfied? with this component.



                                                  26
                            Table 4: Changes in Market Access




Component V: Technical Assistance and Capacity-Building
7.      The MSEs responded well to technical assistance provided through the project with
satisfaction levels averaging 94.4 percent. The reflexive comparison measured to which extent
MSEs: (a) separated household money from enterprise money; (b) calculated profits; (c)
provided personal wages; (d) implemented a business plan; and (e) kept cash savings for
emergencies. The results at project closing showed a marked improvement across the board as
compared to project inception. While 98 percent of MSE were keeping financial records at the
group level, a total 40.7 percent kept track of their finances at the individual MSE level (see
Table 5).




                                              27
                     Table 5: Changes in Savings and Enterprise Skills




Overall Project Impact on MSEs

8.       Outcomes regarding MSE capacities sales and profits were a result of the combination of
activities and components. At project start, the baseline survey calculated both household
incomes (representing a „combination of profits‟ from multiple income-generating sources) and
the profit of the project-supported income-generating activity (see Table 6). The comparison
registered improvement at both levels. As expected, impact is higher at the enterprise level. In
addition, a separate satisfaction survey measured perceptions regarding issues such as women‟s
involvement, overall enterprise recovery, accountability mechanisms and implementing agency
staff professionalism. Table 6 provides an overview of the key findings:

                     Table 6: Overall Project Impact and Satisfaction Levels

     Components of                  Impact
                                                                     Impact & Satisfaction Level
        Project                   Indicators
                     Profit of MSE
    Component II:
    Asset            Note: profits are calculated for the
    Replacement      income-generating activity targeted      Pre-intervention profits:
                     by the project. Most MSEs have           IDR 151,571 (USD 17.6 per month)
    Component IV:    additional income sources, thereby
    Assistance for   augmenting overall household             Post-intervention profits:
    Market Access    incomes.                                 IDR 266,997 (USD 31.0 per month)
                     Calculation of profit is strict thus     Increase in profits: + 76.2 %
    Component V:     including all enterprise expenditures,
    Capacity-        including for example informal
    Building &       labour hire.
    Technical        Household income
    Assistance                                                Pre-intervention household income:
                     Note: includes aggregate „profits‟
                                                              IDR 1,024,934 (USD 119)
                     from all income-generating activities


                                                    28
     Components of                   Impact
                                                                    Impact & Satisfaction Level
        Project                    Indicators
                      of the household.
                                                             Post-intervention household income:
                                                             IDR 1,237,233 (USD 144)
                                                             Increase in household incomes: +20.7 %
                      Involvement of women in village        Substantial’ involvement of women in
                      enterprise                             enterprise increased with 12 percentage
                                                             points
                      Level of enterprise recovery           Share of MSEs that recovered capacities to
                      Note: Sectors that had not recovered   higher levels compared to before the
                      fully faced price volatility, severe   earthquake: 77.0 %
                      competition and unfavorable climatic   Share MSE that recovered capacities to
                      conditions                             same level as before the earthquake: 10.8 %
                                                             Share of MSEs expressing overall
                      Overall satisfaction level             satisfaction or high satisfaction with project
                                                             design and implementation: 95.6 %
                      IOM, partner and trainer               Share of MSEs satisfied with staff
                      performance                            performance and professionalism: 87.1 %
                                                             Satisfaction and awareness regarding
                      Accountability and complaints
                                                             accountability and complaints mechanisms:
                      mechanisms
                                                             88.5 %

Intervention Case Studies
9.     Case studies were carried out in May 2011 by Asia Management Consulting (AMC)
hired by IOM to study intended and unintended outcomes of the project via focus group
discussions (FGD). Drawing from these findings, the following section presents case studies
from three successful interventions in agro-food processing, textile processing and handicraft,
and two less successful interventions in crop production and food packaging.

Case Study 1: Textile Processing/Batik

10.    The textile processing sector included beneficiaries in batik production and traditional
weaving. The FGD focused on batik production, for which the project had supported
287 producers in two villages. The FGD was carried out in Kebon village, Klaten district
(Central Java province).

11.     The project had introduced natural coloring processes as a way to reduce costs and
environmental impact. The beneficiaries stated that the operational costs had decreased
following use of natural dyes, which were cheaper than conventional chemical-based dyes. Some
of the ingredients needed for natural dye were also available freely in the community.

12.     This training, which also included free access to expertise from the Clean Batik Initiative
(CBI)/Indonesian-German Chamber of Commerce, had led to better awareness among the
beneficiaries regarding the health risks associated with conventional production and the benefits
that cleaner and more environmentally-friendly batik production could bring. Additional design
trainings and better quality management improved the batik, so that upward price adjustments


                                                     29
were made. The project increased the number of production specializations that the beneficiaries
could master which increased the local value added. Some technical failures occurred, such as
inappropriate coloring, pointing to the need for additional technical advice.

13.    The project replaced and upgraded earthquake-damaged production assets. The
beneficiaries stated that the majority of the assets had been well utilized. The assets contributed
to productivity increases, enabled more experiments on design and coloring and reduced the
processing time.

14.     The project assisted what were previously individual workers supplying collectors
located outside of the community, to set up producer groups. The groups had started to apply
collective procurement to get better input prices, whereby the village-level group purchased raw
materials and distributed to the producer groups.

15.    At the village-level, the beneficiaries had formed a marketing and promotion team which
coordinated representation of producer groups at local and national product exhibitions. This
promotion team developed a brand name, Batik Kebon Indah. New sales occurred frequently,
including through exhibitions and reputable retailers, such as Sarinah Mall in Jakarta.

16.     The project provided a showroom in the local community, built with financial support
from the beneficiaries, to showcase the silver jewelry production process, display products and
use as a sales outlet. A steep increase in the number of visitors to Kebon occurred. With the help
of the project, the producers set up an elaborate system for promotion and sales. One of the
producers explains how the ways of working had changed after having been assisted by the
project:


         “We have set up a village promotion team that convenes on the sixth of every
         month with representatives of the five producer groups. The promotion team
         presents an activity and sales report and distributes the revenues from that
         month to each group treasurer. The producer groups also meet to report on
         production and profits and to carry out arisan [micro-credit based on a lottery
         system].

         The member that obtains credit through arisan may decide to purchase kain mori
         [special cotton fabric with high thread count used to make batik] and to produce
         batik for on-sale through the producer group. In other words, the producer group
         and promotion team does not only sell its own batik, but also batik produced by
         individuals. Nevertheless, the fee structure applied by the promotion team is
         different. Sales of individual batik are charged with 10 percent off the sales price,
         whereas sales of group-owned batik are charged only five percent. The income
         from the fees is used by the promotion team to pay for the costs of fairs and other
         promotion. A code on each batik cloth differentiates between individual and
         group sales. In addition, an individual can sell a maximum of 10 pieces of batik
         per month through the group.


                                                  30
         Through this system, batik from Kebon village is sold through one channel using
         the Batik Kebon Indah brand name. Batik Kebon Indah adopts a product standard
         regarding pricing, motives, quality and packaging. The system is beneficial for us
         since it reduces competition between the batik producers in the community and
         ensures consistency in pricing and quality.?

         Participant in Focus Group Discussion, Asian Management Consulting, 27 May
         2011.



17.     The AMC focus discussion noted that all the five groups were keeping financial records
through simple book-keeping. In addition, sales and profits of the groups had increased
markedly. There were cases of MSE incomes increasing by 200 percent, according to FGD
participants. Customer complaints decreased, resulting from improvements in product quality.
Nevertheless, the marketing skills, particularly regarding customer retention needed
improvement.

18.     The scaling-up of the batik industry in this small community had knock-on effects on
other sectors benefiting as suppliers or laborers. A collaboration with Yogyakarta-based clothing
designers also utilized local tailors to produce designer clothes made using batik cloth.

19.      The FGD found that the prominent role of the village government had been an important
factor supporting industry expansion. For example, the Head of the Village assisted the groups
to register as legal bodies (Badan Usaha Milik Desa/BUMD) and allocated budget support,
facilitated marketing and actively advocated on behalf of the groups vis-à-vis the district and
provincial governments. Batik activities had been included in the village development plan
(Rencana Pembangunan Jangka Menengah Daerah/RPJMD).

Case Study 2: Agro-Food Processing / Processing of Cassava, Peanuts, Corn, Banana, etc.

20.      The project initiated start-up of agro-food processing units in Terong village, Bantul
district (Yogyakarta province), mainly run by women. Five groups involving 100 beneficiaries
were formed, the most successful being Nikimon 2. Before the project intervention, the women
worked primarily to assist their husbands in the rice fields, while they now had informal work as
snack and cake producers.

21.     The project provided a basic package of assets for business start-up, such as cooking
utensils, baking equipment, packaging equipment and display windows. Most of these were well-
utilized according to FGD beneficiary accounts. New simple technology had been introduced,
including sealers for packaging and spinners used to drain the cooking oil after frying.

22.    The producers were assisted to set up a marketing outlet at the Ndangwesi market,
located in the community. Products were also sold to stores and snack shops in Yogyakarta. In
addition, schools around Dlingo sub-district were frequent customers, enabling Nikimon 2 to
maintain orders and develop into a self-sustaining enterprise. The head of Terong village


                                                31
developed a Nikimon website to support the marketing efforts. Towards the end of the project,
the Nikimon brand became well known in the district and beyond.
         “Last year we attended the Super Food exhibition in Yogyakarta. Through this
         exhibition, we were introduced to Mas Firman, the owner of the snacks food
         outlet Cokro Telo. He asked us to give him a sample of the Nikimon product.
         About one month later, we were asked to become a supplier to Cokro Telo. Since
         then we have been supplying Cokro Telo on a monthly basis. Our other regular
         customers include Pasar Pagi [the morning market], the Agriculture Department,
         and ASPARTAN [the Organic Farming Marketing Association].?

         Participant in Focus Group Discussion, Asian Management Consulting, 28 May
         2011.


23.    The profits from Nikimon 2 were distributed equally to the group members. Nevertheless,
producers in some of the other groups did not earn the same level of profit and some were at
times discouraged by this, and tended to produce when there was a customer order.

24.    Raw material, such as cassava, banana and peanuts were easily obtained from fields
owned by the producers or from neighbors. Distribution was sometimes a challenge due to long
distances and inappropriate means of transportation, damaging the products (the products were
transported by motorcycle equipped with bamboo baskets and boxes).

25.     Many of the producers obtained food safety certification (Sertifikat Produksi Industri
Rumah Tangga/S-PIRT). Despite this, the FGD noted cases of packaging without indicated
expiry dates and information regarding the ingredients did not always match with the actual
product. That being said, overall product quality was improving which led to decreasing
rejections from the customers. Beneficiaries stated that product quality and packaging were
important factors for acceptance by the market and that keeping a “customer orientation? was
essential in order retain the customer base.

26.     The Department of Agriculture and the farmers‟ association (Gabungan Kelompok
Petani/GAPOKTAN) were important agents behind Nikimon‟s expansion. The Department of
Industry, Trade and Cooperatives supported the Nikimon groups with exhibition space. With
easily obtainable raw material and low-cost technology, the local government viewed Nikimon
as a successful business model replicable to other communities in the region.

Case Study 3: Handicraft / Production of Silver Jewellery

27.     In Pampang village, Gunung Kidul district (Yogyakarta province) the project assisted
98 silversmiths. Earthquake-damaged assets, such as machines for producing silver wire, were
replaced or upgraded. The project had provided tools and material for the finishing process, each
package serving about 25 MSEs. The project also provided personal tools to replace and support
MSE daily production activities.




                                               32
28.     Through the FGD, beneficiaries said that these assets were utilized, but noted that some
modifications had been carried out enabling the provided equipment to fit their originally
intended purpose. Beneficiaries pointed out that in particular the tumbler machine had improved
the product quality, making the jewelry shinier and aesthetically attractive. Equipment to process
silver wire for the filigree was also felt positively as outsourcing this process had incurred high
costs.

29.     Beneficiaries stated that the technical trainings had focused on introducing design
variation and improving finishing. Several new designs had been created. In addition, the
producers had been trained in combination, previously only mastering filigree technique.
Through study trips and an apprentice program to Celuk, Bali and Borobudur Silver, Yogyakarta
sponsored by the project, silversmiths had obtained knowledge regarding alternative designs that
enabled an adjustment of the design range to better respond to changing market trends.

30.     Beneficiaries indicated that the new designs had led to additional sales of silver jewelry,
also at a higher retail price. Nevertheless, there had been cases of silversmiths being reluctant to
undertake new designs, as the product development and innovation process was time-consuming,
affecting the ongoing production.

31.     To reap the benefits of collective action, the project assisted the silversmiths to form four
producer groups to undertake marketing and procurement. The price of raw silver ore had
increased and supply was dominated by Kota Gede-based producers in Yogyakarta, making it
difficult to access raw material at a competitive price. The producer groups identified an
alternative supplier located in Malioboro Street, Yogyakarta. Collectively, the producers
negotiated a lower purchasing price. The FGD also noted that these groups had been trained in
financial management, and were now able to keep books regarding their finances.

32.     A showroom with display cases was set up. Through this facility, the beneficiaries could
showcase and sell their products in the local community also being able to receive visitors and
tourists, which previously had been impossible as no products had been kept on stock for
display. The project also sponsored a sales channel for silver jewelry through the Mahoni shop
in Yogyakarta.

33.     A village promotion team was formed to undertake marketing, mainly through
exhibitions and business meetings, including with Plaza Indonesia and Sarinah Mall in Jakarta.
New links with the Department of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives led to high attendance at
several exhibitions. The product brand, Pampang Silver, gained strong brand recognition
following the project intervention.
          “The last time we received support from the local government was in year 2000,
          when we were provided with production tools. Now Disperindagkop
          [Department of Industry, Trade and Cooperatives] has scheduled a training for us,
          which will commence on completion of the IOM-JRF project.?

          Participant in Focus Group Discussion, Asian Management Consulting, 27 May
          2011.



                                                 33
34.     A micro-credit training provided by the project had helped some of the groups to access
credits from microfinance institutions. The new credit was used to purchase raw materials and
equipment to increase production.
          “We have taken loans at IDR 5 million per person with one percent monthly
          interest. These credits were accessed from BRI-KUBE [Bank Rakyat Indonesia-
          Kelompok Usaha Bersama]. In addition, one group has taken a IDR 4 million loan
          through a local micro-finance institution. Nevertheless, some of the other
          silversmiths do not feel ready to take a loan, because they think it’s too risky.?

          Participant in Focus Group Discussion, Asian Management Consulting, 27 May
          2011.


35.      While this industry cluster had been able to recover and sustain since the 2006
earthquake, it had been a bumpy ride. The producers were well aware of their vulnerability to
economic downturn (which occurred on a global scale in 2008 and impacted handicraft exports),
volatility in global silver ore prices and the existence of strong local competitors. These factors
were a constant threat to the profitability and viability of these village enterprises. The producers
recognized the need to anticipate and act on such issues by continuing to improve access to raw
material, upgrade designs and expand their market networks.

Case Study 4: Crop Production/Cultivation of Rice
36.    The project supported 87 rice producers in Karang Tengah village, Sukoharjo district
(Central Java). This intervention aimed to improve rice production by introducing methods for
organic rice production and fertilizers to reduce costs and improve productivity.

37.     Based on findings from the AMC study, this intervention only achieved limited impacts
for the beneficiaries mainly due to two harvest failures following an outbreak of pests. AMC
also noted that with organic rice and fertilizers being a new activity for the beneficiaries,
additional and longer-term technical guidance would have been necessary, also with a greater
dedication and involvement by the agricultural department through its extension officers.

38.    There was also a need for a greater emphasis on management and marketing, so that
contacts initiated through the IOM assistance could be followed-up on and lead to business
agreements. With organic products targeting high-end markets, market access had been
challenging and needed much more attention.

39.     Despite the unfavorable planting conditions, a review of the FGD transcripts reveals that
training and experiments on the subject matter was received positively by the beneficiaries:
          “[The technical assistance provided] had a very positive impact because before I
          relied on chemical fertilizers and liquids, which I now have reduced with 50
          percent by using fertilizer that I produce myself. In addition, my farm group has
          become active as a result of the IOM assistance, now also conducting lending and
          savings activities.?



                                                  34
         ‘After attending the IOM training, our farm group is producing organic fertilizers
         and pesticides, which we are now applying on our fields. We also sell the
         fertilizers to other farmers although not at a profit. There has indeed been
         improvement for the farm group, but what a shame that the last two harvests
         failed due to pest outbreaks that were difficult to wipe out.’

         ‘My farm group is experimenting with a demonstration plot based on SRI [System
         of Rice Intensification]. We have received a credit from Kelompok Usaha Bersama
         to be invested in organic fertilizer production. We have also tested production of
         organic rice.?

         Voices from Focus Group Discussion, Asian Management Consulting, 26 May
         2011.


40.    The AMC study noted that the generally high demand for organic rice in Indonesia,
combined with the significant interest from both the direct beneficiaries, and other farmers in the
Karang Tengah community that expressed their interest to participate, in fact provided good
prospects for development of organic farming. For that to be possible, these beneficiaries would
need more technical, financial and marketing assistance provided on a long-term basis, and with
formal integration under the existing farm association.

Case Study 5: Food Packaging/Production of Ice Cream Cups
41.     The project supported a cluster of 84 women producers of ice cream cups in Krikilan
village, Klaten district (Central Java). Project support through this intervention included asset
support, management training and technical training to improve and diversify the product.

42.     During the implementation however, the producers faced severe constraints following
increased raw material cost of glue and paper for production, increased competition from other
producers with lower-priced ice cream cups and increased market preference for more hygienic
plastic cups made by producers in Surabaya. These challenges had emerged recently (about six
months prior to the FGD) and thus in the midst of the project implementation.

43.     With both sales and profit margins dropping, many of the beneficiaries became
increasingly unmotivated to continue production, and instead opted to resort to traditional
income-generating activities of farming and livestock.




                                                 35
      Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
        (including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                          36
       Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team Members
          Names                          Title                      Unit
Preparation/appraisal
                          Lead Financial Sector
Hormoz Aghdaey                                                     EASFP
                          Specialist/Task Team Leader
Thomas Rose               Advisor                                   EASFP
Nancy Chen                Sr. Financial Specialist                  EASFP
Raj Soopramanien          Senior Counsel                           LEGES
Unggul Suprayitno         Financial Management Specialist          EAPFM
Christina I. Donna        Financial Management Specialist          EAPFM
Paulus Bagus Tjahjanto    Procurement Specialist                   EAPPR
Imad Saleh                Sr. Procurement Specialist               EAPPR
Andrew Sembel             Safeguards Specialist                    EASEN
Junxue Chu                Senior Finance Officer                   LOAFC
Andry Utama Thamrin       Finance Analyst (Disbursement)           LOADM
Lynn Gross                Program Assistant                        EASPR
Michael Figueroa          Information Assistant                     EASFP

Supervision
                          Sr. Financial Specialist/Task Team
Nancy Chen                                                         EASFP
                          Leader
Ade B. Kurniawan          Facilitation Officer                     EACIF
Christina I. Donna        Financial Management Specialist          EAPFM
Enggar Prasetyaningsih    Procurement Analyst                      EAPPR
Virza Sasmitwidjaja       Safeguards Specialist                    EASIS
Bisma Housen              Sr. Procurement Specialist               EAPPR
Enda E. Ginting           Financial Management Consultant          EAPFM

ICR
Nancy Chen                Task Team Leader                         EASFP
Hiran Herat               Consultant                               EASFP
Thang Long Ton            Economist                                EASPR
Mee June Kim              Junior Professional Associate            EASFP
Michael Figueroa          Information Assistant                    EASFP




                                          37
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                    USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY08                                      8.88                64,416.75
  FY09                                      7.05                61,320.89

                          Total:         15.93                 125,737.64
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                      2.81                18,782.78
  FY10                                      8.98                77,305.89
  FY11                                      8.46                85,242.93
  FY12                                      2.81                17,509.05

                          Total:         23.06                 198,840.65




                                       38
                            Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
                     Detailed Results of Beneficiary Satisfaction Survey
              Component II: Asset Replacement
Are you utilizing the personal asset provided by IOM-JRF for                Yes              95.81%
your income-generating activity?                                             No               4.19%
Are you utilizing the communal asset / infrastructure provided              Yes              94.18%
by IOM-JRF for your income-generating activity?                              No               5.82%
Are the provided assets / infrastructure relevant and technically           Yes              98.68%
appropriate for your income-generating activity?                             No               1.32%
                                                                        Not satisfied         1.33%
Are you overall satisfied with the product quality / durability of      Less satisfied       13.72%
the assets / infrastructure provided through the project?                 Satisfied          78.10%
                                                                       Highly Satisfied       6.86%
       Component IV: Assistance for Market Access
Do you know about IOM market access activities (expos, fairs,                 Yes            81.49%
workshops, marketing training, promotional materials,
networking)                                                                   No             18.51%
                                                                         Not satisfied        6.73%
What is your level of satisfaction regarding the usefulness /            Less satisfied      19.96%
benefit of the IOM-JRF market access activities?                           Satisfied         65.92%
                                                                        Highly satisfied      7.40%
 Component V: Technical Assistance & Capacity-Building
                                                                         Not satisfied        0.44%
What is your level of satisfaction regarding the usefulness /            Less satisfied       5.71%
benefit of technical assistance and other trainings provided
through the project?                                                       Satisfied         82.42%
                                                                        Highly satisfied     11.43%
         IOM Staff / Partner / Trainer Performance
                                                                         Not satisfied        0.44%
Do you feel that IOM staff / partners / trainers have performed          Less satisfied       1.53%
appropriately and professionally in the delivery of services under
this project?                                                              Satisfied         84.68%
                                                                        Highly satisfied     13.35%
          Complaints and Accountability Mechanisms
Do you feel that you have been able to channel grievances to the              Yes            88.47%
project team and that the complaints mechanisms have been
adequate and effective?                                                       No             11.53%
                      Enterprise Recovery
                                                                     Recovered to a higher
                                                                                             76.97%
                                                                             level
In your opinion, what is your level of recovery from the impacts
                                                                     Recovered to the same
of the May 2006 earthquake?                                                                  10.75%
                                                                             level
                                                                       Not yet recovered     12.28%
                      Overall Satisfaction
                                                                         Not satisfied        0.22%
What is your overall level of satisfaction regarding the IOM-JRF         Less satisfied       4.19%
project?                                                                   Satisfied         83.22%
                                                                        Highly satisfied     12.36%
*459 MSE participated in the survey



                                                  39
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                     (if any)




                      40
            Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. INTRODUCTION

1.      The objectives of this report are to: (a) evaluate the achievement of the project objective,
(b) discuss the relevance of the objective, design and implementation, (c) discuss key factors
affecting implementation and outcomes, (d) discuss intended and unintended impacts,
(e) compile lessons learned, and (f) discuss sustainability of impacts after project closure.

2.     While performance varied across economic sectors, the results measured in terms of
impact of the project on business performance and recovery of the micro- and small
enterprises (MSE), as well from the viewpoint of sustainability of project services, are
encouraging, with some key findings, as follows:

   SATISFACTION LEVEL: 95.6 percent of MSE beneficiaries satisfied or highly satisfied regarding project
    design and implementation.
   RELEVANCE: 95.8 percent utilization level of individual asset provisions among the beneficiaries.
   RECOVERY: 87.7 percent of MSE stated recovery back to pre-earthquake levels or better, with a notable
    77 percent of the beneficiaries stating that they had exceeded pre-earthquake levels.
   BUSINESS PERFORMANCE: An average 76.2 percent net increase in MSE profits, a 20.7 percent increase
    in household incomes and improvements in savings and enterprise skills. While almost no beneficiaries
    accessed markets beyond the village or sub-district at project inception, by project closing, 22.3 percent of the
    MSE had penetrated district-level markets, 26.4 percent provincial-level markets and 11.4 percent national-level
    markets.
   GENDER: With 42 percent of the MSE beneficiaries led by women, positive changes occurred regarding their
    decision-making power, with „substantial‟ influence of women increasing with 11.8 percentage points at the
    enterprise level and 12.2 percentage points at the community level, as compared to the pre-intervention stage.


3.      Government officials viewed the project as making a contribution to the economic
recovery in the targeted areas, and that the project objective and strategies adopted were
complementary to government initiatives promoting recovery and development. Given a robust
project exit strategy, local government agreed to continue activities set up through the project,
creating conditions for sustainability and activity continuation. Adequate financing from the JRF
and recognition of the need to provide an ample implementation timeline for an effective
response were additional factors contributing to a successful project implementation. Strong
project implementation oversight furnished by the World Bank was also a crucial supporting
factor.

4.       The implementation faced a number of constraints associated with: (a) cases of asset
replacements not meeting required specification or difficult to operate; (b) climatic variation and
pests affecting output levels in crop production sectors; (c) price volatility affecting primarily
livestock and fishery sectors; and d) delays in project implementation caused by the eruption of
the Mt. Merapi volcano in October-November 2010. Lessons learned from the project included
to: (i) start early on activity continuation and exit planning; (ii) build in flexibility in project
design and components; (iii) leverage available capabilities and resources of the target groups;


                                                        41
and (iv) ensure government engagement throughout the project and allocation of sufficient
financial and human resources within the project to carry out such tasks.

2. EVALUATION DESIGN AND EXECUTION

5.      This evaluation was executed by IOM and comprised a mix of research approaches
guided by a terms of reference agreed with the World Bank and the JRF. The evaluation
concentrated on Component II-„Asset Replacement,‟ Component IV-“Assistance for Market
Access? and Component V-“Capacity-building & Technical Assistance.? The PDO, project
design and implementation were examined through reflexive comparison, beneficiary
satisfaction survey, evaluation workshops with government partners, and FGD with key
beneficiary sectors. The findings were compared and analyzed. The treatment and comparison
group, workshop participants and FGD participants were selected with due consideration to:
(a) adequate geographical coverage and representation; (b) representational industry sector
coverage; (c) gender; (d) partner coverage; and (e) beneficiary coverage.

3. RESULTS AND KEY FINDINGS

6.      Eighty Seven point seven per cent of the respondents stated recovery of their MSE to the
same or higher levels of capacity as before the earthquake. When extrapolated to the whole
beneficiary population, 3,908 MSE out the targeted 4,300 MSE had thus recovered by project
closing. When examining recovery levels at the sector-level, some sectors stand out as facing a
more troublesome recovery process. The table below provides an overview of the share of MSE
per sector that stated that they had not been able to fully recovery.

                         Share MSE not Recovered per Sector and Explanation
       MSE sector           % not recovered                                  Explanation
                                              50 % drop in price of live cattle occurred towards Project closing (see
        Livestock                14.3
                                              further Section 6.5.3)
     Crop production              9.3
        Agro food                             New income-generating activity augmented existing incomes
                                  0.0
       processing
                                              Raw material price hike, increased competition occurred towards
     Food packaging              25.0
                                              Project closing (see more detail under Section 6.6.1)
    Textile processing            8.3
                                              Profits squeezed by sharp increase in feed prices (see more detail
         Fishery                 25.0
                                              under Section 6.5.3)
                                              Financial crisis 2008 impacting handicraft exports, volatility of silver
        Handicraft               17.0
                                              ore prices (see more detail under Section 6.6.1)

7.      The Results Table indicated that the project performed satisfactorily in terms of achieving
the targets under the intermediate outcomes, with minor deficits registered under indicators “#
MSE with improved market access,? “MSE with financial records? and “# MSE with business
plans.? The following section presents findings that can be attributed to the individual project
components.

8.     Component II: Asset Replacement. The asset replacement component had the effect of
enhancing the fixed asset base of the beneficiary from an average of IDR 731,221 at project


                                                        42
inception to IDR 3,347,663 at project closing. In addition, utilization levels of these assets were
above 90 percent. Nevertheless, satisfaction levels were slightly lower (85 percent) resulting
from cases of assets not meeting quality standards or required specifications of the MSE.

  Project Impact and Satisfaction Levels regarding Component II: “Asset Replacement?
    Component /
                          Pre-
      Impact                            Post-Intervention                  Beneficiary Satisfaction Level
                      Intervention
     Indicator
                                                               95.8 % of MSE were utilizing provided individual assets
                                                               at Project closure
   Component II:      IDR 731,221         IDR 3,347,663
                                                               94.2 % of MSE were utilizing communal productive
   Asset
                                                               assets provided by the Project at Project closure
   Replacement
                                                               85.0 % of MSE were satisfied or highly satisfied with the
   Productive asset
                                                               quality and durability of assets at Project closure
   build-up
                                     +357,8 %                  99.0 % of MSE regarded assets as relevant and
                                                               technically appropriate for their income-generating
                                                               activity

9.      Component IV: Assistance for Market Access. At project inception, almost no
beneficiaries accessed markets beyond the village or sub-district. At project closing, 22.3 percent
of the MSE stated that they had penetrated district markets, 26.4 percent provincial markets and
11.4 percent national markets. This increase can be linked to an emphasis in the project on
marketing activities, fairs and exhibitions. Market access did not work for all beneficiaries, with
only 73.3 percent stating satisfaction or high satisfaction with this component. Livestock
beneficiaries, representing 22.7 percent portion of the beneficiaries, were prone to dissatisfaction
with this component, likely resulting from unfavorable sales conditions at the time of the survey.
38.3 percent of the livestock beneficiaries stated that they were “less satisfied? or “dissatisfied?
with the market access component.

10.     Component V: Technical Assistance and Capacity-Building. The MSE responded
well to technical assistance with satisfaction levels averaging 94.4 percent. The study measured
to which extent MSE: (a) separated household money from enterprise money; (b) calculated
profits; (c) provided personal wages; (d) implemented a business plan; and (e) kept cash savings
for emergencies. The results at project end-date show marked improvements across the board as
compared to at project inception. While 98 percent of MSE were keeping financial records at the
group level, a total 40.7 percent kept track of their finances at the individual MSE level.

11.     Overall Project Impact on MSE. At project start, the baseline survey calculated both
household incomes (representing a “combination of profits? from multiple income-generating
sources) and the profit of the project-supported income-generating activity. The comparison
registered improvements at both levels. As would be expected, impact is higher at the enterprise
level. In addition, a satisfaction survey measured perceptions regarding women‟s involvement,
enterprise recovery, accountability mechanisms and implementing agency staff professionalism.




                                                          43
12.         The following table provides an overview of the findings:

                                   Overall Project Impact and Satisfaction Levels

                    Impact
                                                                    Impact & Satisfaction Level
                  Indicators
                                          Pre-intervention profits:
                                          IDR 151,571 (USD 17.6 per month)
      Profit of MSE
                                          Post-intervention profits:
                                          IDR 266,997 (USD 31.0 per month)
                                          Increase in profits: + 76.2 %
                                          Pre-intervention household income:
                                          IDR 1,024,934 (USD 119)
      Household income
                                          Post-intervention household income:
                                          IDR 1,237,233 (USD 144)
                                          Increase in household incomes: +20.7 %
      Involvement of women in village     “Substantial?’ involvement of women in enterprise increased with 12 percentage
      enterprise                          points
                                          Share MSE that recovered capacities to higher levels compared to before the
                                          earthquake: 77.0 %
      Level of enterprise recovery
                                          Share MSE that recovered capacities to same level as before the earthquake:
                                          10.8 %
                                          Share MSE expressing overall satisfaction or high satisfaction with project design
      Overall satisfaction level
                                          and implementation: 95.6 %
      IOM, partner and trainer
                                          Share MSE satisfied with staff performance and professionalism: 87.1 %
      performance
      Accountability and complaints       Satisfaction and awareness regarding accountability and complaints
      mechanisms                          mechanisms: 88.5 %


4. RELEVANCE OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVE, DESIGN AND
IMPLEMENTATION

13.    Government workshop participants assessed the project as having good impact on the
recovery process in the target villages, and that the PDO was in line with local government
recovery planning. MSE assistance was viewed as a government priority. Participants stated that
the development of a close relationship with IOM had been an important factor supporting the
achievement of the PDO. MSE beneficiaries concurred that the PDO was relevant in the context
of supporting their recovery process. Government partners and beneficiaries assessed the project
design and implementation as meeting the needs of the beneficiaries. Officials stated that the
approach and activities were effective, useful and appropriate. They noted that the
implementation was inclusive and had encouraged involvement of the government planning
agencies in planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation.

14.     Government officials regarded coordination with the implementing agency as a key
project success factor. Such coordination had improved as the project evolved, which prevented
overlap between government projects and the activities of the implementing agency. Officials
pointed out that where constraints had occurred in coordination, this was often related to issues
internal to the government, such as lack of availability of qualified government staff at a certain
point in time or high staff turnover.


                                                               44
15.     IOM received a positive assessment concerning reporting. Officials confirmed that they
had been receiving quarterly reports in line with the reporting obligations of the Grant
Agreement. The quality of these reports was commended. Joint monitoring and project site visits
were regarded as an effective mechanism for project monitoring. Such visits had been conducted
on a frequent basis allowing officials to measure implementation progress. It was noted that the
visits served the additional function of nurturing links between officials and the MSE
beneficiaries.

16.     The workshops concluded that joint monitoring had mainly been conducted on an
impromptu basis in line with the compatibility of schedules of the government with that of the
beneficiaries and the implementing agency. While recognizing the practical constraints
pertaining to more formalized arrangements, officials preferred that schedules be made fixed and
that an interdepartmental task team be formed in each district. Through FGD with beneficiaries,
they communicated that design and implementation of the project responded well to their needs,
and that the majority of activities were effective. The survey found that 76 percent of the
beneficiaries regarded their operating capacities as having surpassed pre-earthquake levels.

17.     FGD also revealed that the asset replacement component experienced some difficulties,
with a limited number of asset replacements not meeting required specification or were difficult
to maintain and operate, also reflected in the somewhat lower satisfaction levels regarding this
component with 15 percent of the beneficiaries being less satisfied or not satisfied with the
quality and durability of the provided assets.

5. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

18.     Mt. Merapi Eruption. On 26 October 2010, the Mt. Merapi volcano erupted. Given the
deterioration of the safety environment, IOM reduced its staff for a period of 10 days, while
maintaining essential staff members to help safeguard business continuity. With the IOM office
in Yogyakarta mandated by the United Nations to oversee safety and security coordination, time
was diverted to risk assessment, security briefings and the tracking of UN staff movements.
IOM was tasked by the European Commission‟s Humanitarian Aid Office (ECHO) to provide
emergency relief assistance for victims of the disaster. While these events caused delays to the
project, negative impact was reduced following: (a) decision not to shut down the operation or
evacuate staff; (b) absence of JRF beneficiary villages within the local government's exclusion
zone; (c) the short duration of the crisis; and (d) strong staff dedication to maintaining
continuation of project services. IOM implemented measures to speed up implementation
following the stabilization of the Mt. Merapi towards the end of November 2010.




                                              45
 Gender. A good portion of the beneficiaries in the project were women. As part of the survey, impact on women‟s
 decision-making power at the household, enterprise and public levels was measured, with noticeable change
 recorded at the enterprise level, the main focus area of the project interventions. A number of conclusions from
 this exercise can be drawn, as follows:

 HOUSEHOLD LEVEL: Few respondents regarded women‟s involvement as „none‟ or „small‟ from the start,
 nevertheless there was a moderate increase in respondents regarding women‟s involvement as „average‟ at the post
 intervention stage. Overall, women seem to exercise an acceptable level of decision-making power in household
 affairs among the affected populations, both before and after the intervention.

 ENTERPRISE LEVEL: At the enterprise level, significant gender impact had occurred following the
 intervention. “Average?-level involvement of women had increased from approximately 53 percent to 66 percent,
 while „substantial‟ involvement of women had increased with 12 percentage points to 31 percent.

 PUBLIC LEVEL: Women‟s involvement in village and public affairs had also increased at the post-intervention
 stage. The number of respondents regarding women‟s decision-making power as „average‟ increased from 55
 percent to 69 percent, while „substantial‟ decision-making power increased from 9 to 21 percent.

19.     Climatic Variations and Pests. Weather conditions had important implications crop
production sectors. Beneficiary accounts pointed to heavy rainfall as affecting harvests. The
Climatology Meteorology and Geophysics Agency stated that in August 2010 the average
rainfall in Yogyakarta was five times higher than during the same period the previous year. In
addition, an increase in locusts in agricultural areas led to losses and damage to crop production
sectors.

20.     Market Price Variations. Market prices of cattle decreased from approximately IDR 8
to10 ten million per head of cattle to IDR four to six million at the time of the impact evaluation.
Following a ban on export of Australian live cattle to Indonesia in June 2011, a slight increase in
sales price was recorded at project closing. Market price volatility affected activities in the
fishery sector as well, where the retail price for fish decreased in parallel with a marked increase
in the price of feed. Despite decreasing profit margins in this sector, profitability was maintained
due to stable and considerable demand for fresh water fish.

21.     Financial Access. Following cancellation of the Component III, IOM developed a
micro-finance training, which aimed to build capacity of the MSE to assess and meet their
financing needs. By project closing, 468 MSE participants of this training (10.5 percent of the
beneficiaries), had accessed credit. Of these, 364 beneficiaries had resorted to informal sources
of credit through revolving fund schemes, while 104 MSE had taken bank credits. These figures
underscore the reliance of micro-enterprises on informal sources of financing. Only limited
success was achieved in linking the beneficiaries with banks funded through GIZ-JRF. By
project closing, 43 beneficiaries had accessed credits from a GIZ-funded bank. The following
factors curtailed a greater success in this regard: (a) certain beneficiary sectors did not require
financial assistance from formal channels, instead preferring loans from funds rotated within the
group; (b) required travel time between the location of the MSE and the BPR posed a financial
and logistical constraint; (c) beneficiaries that required financing were sometimes not bankable,
meaning that they lacked track record or loan repayment ability to be viewed as attractive clients;
and (d) MFI did not want to weaken their portfolio by taking on non-bankable clients.




                                                      46
6. SUSTAINABILITY

22.     An exit strategy was developed through consultations with government, MSE, village
officials and civil-society. This strategy contained action plans linking priority activities with
specific government departments and was endorsed by both provinces. Officials expressed
commitment to taking forward the project in line with their available resources. The exit strategy
focused on achieving sustainability outcomes, namely: (a) self-sufficiency; (b) institutional
capacity development; (c) effective linkages; and (d) handover processes for continuation.

23.      Self-Sufficiency. The project‟s trainings promoted self-sufficiency and business
sustainability with improvements recorded in terms of productive assets, market area coverage
and profits, results which are expected to sustain given the project‟s investment in skill-building
and organizational capacity development. Beneficiary investments in the project, including
labour and material inputs, created ownership of these results. A total of 173 producer groups
were created or strengthened, and provided services to their MSE members after project closing.
The project promoted access-to-finance of these groups through capacity-building activities. As
an added value element, community-based disaster mitigation and preparedness measures aimed
to reduce risk exposure of the beneficiaries to common hazards identified in each community.
These measures reduced vulnerability of beneficiaries and better protected income-generating
activities from potential future impacts of natural disaster also after project completion.

24.     Institutional Capacity Development. Through government training workshops,
integration of disaster risk reduction in the recovery process of the region was expanded beyond
the community. Workshops for the Regional Disaster Management Agency, and for other
government departments, strengthened disaster prevention and management capacity, which will
benefit the local communities after project closing. The project capitalized on the perceived
urgency of disaster reduction in the wake of the Mt. Merapi volcano eruption. Disaster risk
reduction was promoted through awareness-raising utilizing TV, radio and printed media.

25.    Effective Linkages. The project implemented initiatives to enhance interface between
the project beneficiaries and local government. For example, person-to-person links were
created with local government as basis for collaboration and provision of additional services to
the beneficiaries after the project completion. IOM also conducted assessments jointly with the
government to the MSE to agree on priority needs and geographical targeting. These joint
assessments ensured adequate buy-in of the government already at the planning stages and
secured willingness to subsequently continue to invest in sub-projects.

26.     Handover Processes for Continuation. The exit strategy identified outstanding needs
among the beneficiaries. Work plans linking activities with specific government departments
were endorsed. To help local government to take these commitments forward, IOM prepared a
handover package, which included work plans, maps, beneficiary lists and profiles, contact
details of group leaders and detailed lists of all assets and training activities provided. The
project advocated for allocation of government funds to support continuation. The project
attended Musrenbang and carried out evaluation workshops with the local governments, to agree
on „best practices‟ that can be replicated in new recovery initiatives in Indonesia.




                                                47
           Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders



1.    This Annex contains comments on the project prepared by the Secretariat of the Java
Reconstruction Fund (JRF) and do not necessarily represent the views of the JRF Steering
Committee or donors.

2.       The JRF supports the Indonesian Government‟s efforts for the reconstruction and
rehabilitation of Java following the 2006 earthquake in Central Java and Yogyakarta and a
subsequent tsunami in West Java. The program, supported by donors, provided grants for the
implementation of five post-disaster reconstruction projects in Java. Following Government
priorities, the JRF program prioritized the reconstruction of housing, recovery of livelihoods, and
increasing the disaster preparedness of affected communities.

3.      This project, Access to Finance and Capacity Building for Earthquake-Affected Micro
and Small Enterprises, implemented by IOM, was one of two projects supported by the JRF
designed to contribute to economic recovery for micro, small and medium enterprises in the
affected regions. A second project, Livelihood Recovery in DIY and Central Java, is
implemented by the Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenarbeit GmbH (GIZ).

4.      The Government of Indonesia and the JRF identified the need for livelihood recovery
efforts to support the large number of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) impacted
by the 2006 earthquake and issued a call for proposals in 2007. IOM and GIZ were selected to
implement two separate but complementary projects designed to support the recovery of
livelihoods in earthquake-affected areas of Yogyakarta and Central Java.

5.       The IOM project was restructured when it became apparent that negotiations on the
institutional arrangements for setting up the access to finance component were not moving
forward. Nevertheless the project was highly successful in supporting livelihood recovery in the
earthquake-affected communities. The project used a highly-effective community-based
approach, developing interventions in consultations with communities. Interventions did not
follow a “cookie-cutter? approach but were developed through consultation with communities
and based upon the existing skills and available resources. The results are impressive, with
positive impacts on incomes and high levels of beneficiary satisfaction.

6.      The JRF Livelihood Recovery Projects provided much needed economic revitalization
support for women. Small and micro enterprises operated by women in the handicrafts and food
processing sectors were particularly badly affected by the earthquake. More than 40 percent of
the beneficiaries of IOM‟s technical assistance activities are women, exceeding the target of 30
percent. JRF support has provided these women entrepreneurs the resources and skills not only
to resume their previous livelihood activities but to improve their businesses and income. As a
result, women‟s decision-making power and influence in their businesses and communities have
also increased, as documented by IOM‟s impact assessment.

7.     A strong capacity building focus has been a key factor for the success of the project and
contributes to the sustainability of the outcomes achieved. Through the project IOM has built


                                                48
capacity not only of MSEs but also of communities, local government and civil society A
portion of the additional financing was used to address needs and gaps identified by the local
governments of Yogyakarta and Central Java to ensure lasting economic recovery. These efforts
included workshops and training for local government and civil society stakeholders in effective
livelihood project management and implementation approaches, and in Community-Based
Disaster Risk Management (CBDRM). The project‟s disaster risk reduction (DRR) approach
included both direct training for communities aimed at reducing risk exposure for MSEs as well
as training local government and civil society organizations on integrating DRR aspects into
development policies, planning and programming. The technical assistance for CBDRM/DRR
was particularly relevant for local government and civil society groups during the response to the
eruption of Mount Merapi. Linking SMEs to disaster risk mitigation through the community
approach will enhance the sustainability of the project‟s impacts on livelihoods by reducing the
vulnerability of MSEs to future disasters.

8.      Good communications have contributed to the success of the IOM livelihoods recovery
project. Positive relationships with stakeholders and information at grassroots levels have
contributed to transparency and beneficiary satisfaction both from MSEs and local government
counterparts. Communications and visibility efforts have also contributed to sustainability by
helping MSEs to expand their marketing networks and gain greater recognition, and in some
cases to link to other sources of support.

9.      The JRF livelihoods projects have generated strong models and lessons learned for
livelihood recovery efforts in future post disaster reconstruction. Both the IOM and GIZ projects
have designed innovative approaches to meeting the livelihood recovery needs of MSMEs in
post-disaster situations and have resulted in positive outcomes. These projects provide good
models which could be implemented with less start-up time in other disaster situations in the
future. The projects also identified some regulatory constraints to implementing effective access
to finance projects targeting the poor, with follow up to address these issues under consideration.
The government‟s National Community Empowerment Program, PNPM, has used lessons
learned from the JRF Livelihood Recovery projects in creating a revolving fund window for
responding to post-disaster needs for livelihood recovery. The lessons learned from these two
innovative projects will be disseminated both within Indonesia and globally so that these
experiences can inform the design of livelihood recovery programs in future post-disaster
situations.




                                                49
                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents



1.   IOM Final Report to the World Bank, October 31, 2011
2.   Annual JRF Public Report 2011
3.   Mission Aide memoirs
4.   Mid-term Review Report




                                          50
                    95°                            100°                         105°                            110°                         115°                       120°                        125°          This map was produced by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the Map Design Unit of The
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  World Bank. The boundaries,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INDONESIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  any other information shown
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  on this map do not imply, on                         SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group, any judgment on the                           PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  legal status of any territory,
              15°                                                                                                                                                                                                 or any endorsement or                                NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  acceptance of such
                                                        INDONESIA                                                                                                                                                 boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MAIN ROADS
                          MYANMAR
                                                                                                   VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                             RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                               PHILIPPINES                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
              10°                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10°                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                         THAILAND                                                                                                                         Sulu
                                                                                                                                                                          Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      135°                    140°


               Banda Aceh
                                                                                           L          A        Y
              5°                                                               A                                          S        BRUNEI                                                                                                                                                                  5°
                            1
                                              Medan                     M                       Natuna
                                                                                                                               I                                                    Celebes
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Talaud
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Is.

                           Pematangsiantar
                                                                                                 Besar
                                                                                                                                                              Tarakan
                                                                                                                                                                                     Sea                                                      PACI F I C                 OCE AN
                                                                                                                                                                                                    24




                                                                                                                                   A
               Simeulue
                                                                                                 19                                                                                                                             Morotai
                                                2                                                                                                                                           Manado
                                                                               SINGAPORE                                                            23
                                Nias                                              Tanjungpinang                                                                                                             Ternate           Halmahera
                                                               Pekanbaru                                                                                                             25
              0°                                                   3                              Pontianak                           AN TAN
                                                                                                                              K AL IM ANTAN                                26              Gorontalo                                         Waigeo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0°
                                                                                      Lingga                          20                                  Samarinda                                                                                     Manokwari
                                       Me




                                              Padang                                                                                                                                                            30                                                             Biak
                                                                                                                                                         Balikpapan
                                                                                                                                                                          Palu                                                                     Sorong
                                                          4             5                                                                                                                      Peleng                      Obi
                                         nt




                                              Siberut                         Jambi        Bangka                                   21
                                         aw




                                                                                               Pangkalpinang                                                       SULAWESI                                                                 Misool     32              Yapen                   Jayapura
                                                              SUMATERA                                                    Palangkaraya
                                                                                                                                                         Mamuju
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Sula Is.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ceram
                                              ai




                                                                                                 9                                              22
                                                                   6               Palembang              Belitung
                                                                                                                                                                 27                                                                Amahai Fakfak
                                                                                                                                                                         28
                                                  Is




                                                                                                                                                                                                                Buru
                                                                                   7                                          Bandjarmasin                                        29      Kendari                                                                              33     PAPUA
                                                    .




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     NEW GUINEA
                                                         Bengkulu                                                                                             Parepare                                                 Ambon
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Timika        Puncak Jaya
                                                                                      8                                                                                                      Muna                                                                                     (5030 m)
              5°                                                             Bandar                                  Java Sea                             Makassar                                                                                     Kai




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PAPUA
                                                        Enggano
                                                                            Lampung
                                                                                        11                                                                                                 Baubau                        Banda 31                      Is.
                                                                                          JAKARTA
                   0       200         400 Kilometers                            Serang                                                                                                                                   Sea                                   Aru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Is.
                                                                                           12Bandung Semarang                      Madura
                                                                                      10                       13                                                                                               Wetar
                                                                                                                                   Surabaya                                                                                        Babar             Tanimbar
                   0      100      200      300        400 Miles                           JAWA          Yogyakarta
                                                                                                                                               16          Sumbawa                                  Alor                  Moa                        Is.
                                                                                                                                   15          Bali Lombok       Raba            Flores
                                                                                                                     14                                                                                                                                                                  Merauke
                    95°                            100°                         105°                                                 Denpasar       Mataram                         Ende                                                                    Arafura Sea
                                                                                                                                                                           18                                   TIMOR-LESTE
                                                                                                                                                         17
               PROVINCES:                                                                                                                10°                     Waingapu Sumba                      Timor                                                                                                10°
                                                                                                                                                                                               Kupang
               1   NANGGROE ACEH DARUSSALAM                    12      JAWA BARAT                         23   KALIMANTAN TIMUR
               2   SUMATERA UTARA                              13      JAWA TENGAH                        24   SULAWESI UTARA
               3   RIAU                                        14      D.I. YOGYAKARTA                    25   GORONTALO
               4
               5
                   SUMATERA BARAT
                   JAMBI
                                                               15
                                                               16
                                                                       JAWA TIMUR
                                                                       BALI
                                                                                                          26
                                                                                                          27
                                                                                                               SULAWESI TENGAH
                                                                                                               SULAWESI BARAT
                                                                                                                                                         INDIAN OCEAN
               6   BENGKULU                                    17      NUSA TENGGARA BARAT                28   SULAWESI SELATAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33420R2
               7   SUMATERA SELATAN                            18      NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR                29   SULAWESI TENGGARA
AUGUST 2008




               8   LAMPUNG                                     19      RIAU KEPULAUAN                     30   MALUKU UTARA              15°                                                                                                                                                              15°
               9   BANGKA-BELITUNG                             20      KALIMANTAN BARAT                   31   MALUKU
              10   BANTEN                                      21      KALIMANTAN TENGAH                  32   PAPUA BARAT                                                                                                            AUSTRALIA
              11   D.K.I. JAKARTA                              22      KALIMANTAN SELATAN                 33   PAPUA                         115°                       120°                        125°                              130°                            135°                    140°
