Page  1
E1907 
Environmental Management Framework 
Access to Finance and Capacity Building of Earth-Quake Affected  
Micro and Small Enterprises 
 
Introduction 
 
1. 
The overall objective of the project is to contribute to the Government뭩 of 
Indonesia뭩 initiatives to support the recovery of micro and small enterprises (MSE) in 
Yogyakarta and Central Java and enable them to reach at least pre-earthquake capacity 
through enhanced access to finance and targeted technical assistance. 
 
Objectives of the safeguard framework 
 
2. 
The social and environmental management framework provides general policies 
and guidelines to serve the following objectives: 
 

Protect human health; 

Prevent or compensate any loss of livelihood; 

Prevent environmental degradation as a result of either individual investments or their 
cumulative effects; 

Enhance positive environmental outcomes; 

Avoid or minimize adverse environmental, economic and social impacts. 
 
3. 
The project has been classified Environment Safeguards Category B given that it 
is unlikely to lead to significant adverse social and environmental impacts.  
 
Environmental Screening 
 
4. 
Subprojects or MSEs will be checked against Government of Indonesia (GOI) 
screening criteria to ensure that no project would necessitate a full environmental 
assessment.  In an initial screening, the project type, scale, location, sensitivity, and the 
nature and magnitude of potential impacts, will be identified to classify the proposal in 
one of 4 categories: 
 

Any potential MSEs which fall into the World Bank's Category A and thus require 
preparation of a full EIA (ANDAL) for which the Ministry of Environment has set 
criteria will be excluded from project funding.  ANDALs (environmental impact 
assessments) are required for large sub-projects in the following areas: 
marine/freshwater conservation areas, peat areas, water catchment areas surrounding 
lakes and reservoirs, areas surrounding springs, scientific areas, areas susceptible to 
natural hazards, coastal mangrove areas, coastal edges, forest protected areas, and 
cultural reserves.  No MSEs are expected and will be allowed in national parks, forest 
parks, or nature tourism parks.
 
Page  2

Those which fall into the World Bank's Category B but under the current Indonesian 
EIA System would require the preparation of site-specific Environmental 
Management (UKL) and Monitoring Plans (UPL) are also subject to BAPEDALDA 
reviews and approvals, with copies furnished to the Bank. It is expected that some 
small or medium industries may fall under this category in particular the medium 
industries.
 

Those for which standard operating procedures (SOP) suffice, where generic good 
practice would protect the environment adequately.  The Minister of Environment 
through ProLH program has developed activities on eco efficiency in small and 
medium sized enterprises and  disseminated eco efficiency tools (good housekeeping, 
chemical management, environmental oriented cost management, environmental 
management accounting).  It is expected that some MSEs may fall under this 
category. 

Those that require no environmental study, where no disturbance of land or water or 
discharge of pollutants is involved.  It is expected that most of the MAEs may fall 
under this category. 
 
5. 
Special screening will be applied on the following cases: 
 

Pesticide, ozone-depleting substances, tobacco or tobacco products:  No subprojects 
using or producing these materials will be financed. 

Asbestos.  No asbestos-containing materials will be financed.  Special mitigation 
measures to address any issues with existing asbestos in any proposed sub-project 
(e.g. renovation of school buildings that may have used asbestos) will be applied.  

Sub-projects that produce liquid or gaseous effluents or emissions.  No manufacturing 
or processing operations will be financed that would produce pollutant-bearing 
effluents or emissions unless: (a) the operations are small-scale; and (b) the cognizant 
Bapedalda reviews the design and certifies that it meets applicable water and air 
pollution control standards. 

Hazardous materials and wastes.  No MSE will be financed that uses, produces, stores 
or transports hazardous materials (toxic, corrosive or explosive) or generates "B3" 
(hazardous) wastes. 

Logging.  MSEs involving logging operations or procurement of logging equipment 
will not be financed. 

MSEs or activities with the potential for significant conversion or degradation of 
critical forest areas or related critical natural habitats (as defined in OP 4.36 on 
Forests)   

Mining or excavation
 of
live coral. 
 
6. 
The implementing agency will be responsible for ensuring that the negative list 
approach is applied, and that revisions are made to the list, as necessary. 
 
Training 
 
7. 
The Ministry of Environment with the support of GTZ through the joint project 
Page  3
ProLH (Indonesian-German Environmental Program) developed activities on eco 
efficiency in small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, this program initiated the 
establishment of the Indonesian Cleaner Production Center (ICPC) in 2004 in order to 
stimulate the development of the Cleaner Production (CP) and Eco Efficiency (EE) 
market. The ICPC is stimulating, facilitating and catalyzing Eco Efficiency 
implementation by supporting service providers in Indonesia. The ICPC is acting as a 
platform for Eco Efficiency, providing training, awareness-raising events, knowledge 
management, and demonstration projects targeting local service providers. Currently it 
cooperates with three regional CP centers, namely P3BD (regional cleaner Production 
Development Center in Semarang Jawa Tengah), Forum Eko Efisiensi D.I. Yogjakarta 
(Ecoforum Yogyakarta), and CPCU (Cleaner Production Clinic UnMul, East 
Kalimantan). 
 
8. 
Training measures are offered in the following fields: 

Good Housekeeping  

Chemical Management  

Occupational health and Safety  

Environmental Management (Accounting and Environmental performance 
Assessment/Indicators)  

Cleaner Production (CP) General & Communication  

CP Marketing strategy  

CP and Banking 
 
Reporting 
 
9. 
The implementing agency will aggregate and review environmental reports and 
flag them as part of the regular project bi-annual reports.  The project manual will include 
a
matrix of likely environmental impacts and steps with which to address them.  An 
experienced environmental consultant will be hired to summarize progress, monitor and 
measure the impact of the project on the environment as part of the performance 
evaluation of the project. The Implementing Agency as part of their regular bi-annual 
project reports will summarize the environmental issues to include: 
 

A
summary of significant mitigation measures, if any, undertake during the previous 
six months; 

A
description of any significant problems or successes in environmental mitigation 
during the period; and  

Anticipated notable environmental or social events anticipated during the coming six 
months. 
 
