DomCent of
LE COPY'                         The World Eanx
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-175 lb-SO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE 'DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SHEBELLI AREA EMERGENCY SETTLEMENT SCHEME
March 31, 1976
This document has a resrictedd distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withiout World Bank authorization.



EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Somali Shilling (So. Sb.)
US$ = So. Sh. 6.30
So. Sh. 1 = US$0.1587
So. Sh. 1 m = US$158,730
Government of Somalia
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICAI, USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDFNT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOFMENT CREDIT
TO THE SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC FOR
THE DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SHEBELLI AREA EMERGENCY SETTLEMENT SCHEME
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for the equivalent of
US$8.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance development of rainfed
crop production in the Juba-Shebelli Area Emergency Settlement Scheme which
is part of a comprehensive drought rehabilitation program. The Arab Fund for Eco-
nomic and Social Development (Arab Fund)and the African Development Fund would also
help finance the settlement scheme in the amount of 6.4 million Kuwaiti Dinars
(about US$22.4 million) and 5.0 million African Development Fund Units of
Account (about US$5.5 million), respectively.  The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (Kuwait Fund) would finance the Northern Rangelands Rehabilitation
Project, which is part of the comprehensive Drought Rehabilitation Program in an
amount equivalent to 6.0 million Kuwaiti Dinars (about US$21.0 million).
PART I -- THE ECONOMY
2.        A Bank Economic Mission visited Somalia in November/December 1974
and its report entitled "Somalia: Recent Economic Developments and Current
Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors orL August 20, 1975.
Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        The Somali Democratic Republic was formed in 1960 by a merger of
the former Italian Trust Territory of Somalia and the British Protectorate
of Somaliland. Following a decade of parliamentary rule, the Government was
taken over by the military in 1969. The Supreme Revolutionary Council,
consisting of army and police officers, is the highest dlecision-making body.
4.        In 1970 the Government  announced its adherence to a program of
scientific socialism, emphasizing egalitarianism and social justice, develop-
ment through the public sector, nationalization of certain foreign enter-
prises, and the formation of cooperatives. This policy was at first associated
with a negative attitude toward private investment, but the Government now
appears to be taking a more favorable but still limited view of the role of
private initiative. In general, the Government's development efforts have been
characterized by austerity and self-reliance. Somalia joined the Arab League
in February 1974. This step has significantly improved the country's foreign
assistance prospects.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        Somalia is located on the Horn of Africa with three thousand
kilometers of coastline on the Gulf of Aden on the north and the Indian
Ocean on the east. It has an area of 637,000 square kilometers. The
topography varies from a hot and arid coastal plain, which gives way to
sparsely wooded savannah, to rugged mountains, agricultural plateaus and
lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. Much of the country is arid;
water supplies are scattered and often Linreliable, and periodic droughts
bring great hardship to both the people and their livestock. Only a
small proportion of the land is arable. While geology suggests mineral
resources, exploration is still in the early stages. Lacking other known
resources, development plans center on agricultural and livestock develop-
ment. However, progress in the development of stock-raising and agriculture
will depend upon careful management of scarce land and water resources.
6.        With an estimated per capita income in the order of US$80 Somalia
is classified by the UN as one of the 25 least developed countries of the
world. Of the total population of approximately three million, about two-
thirds are nomads, who depend on livestock for their livelihood, and about
20-25% are farmers cultivating land along the Juba and Shebelli Rivers
and in the northwest region. The small monetary sector of the economy
provides only limited opportunities for employment. Apart from the
traditional export of livestock, commercial agriculture is mainly cen-
tered on the production of bananas for export, in which Italian concession
holders are still important, and the production of sugar for the domestic
market. Manufacturing and other sectors of the economy are restricted in
their potential by the small size of the market, poor infrastructure, and
the shortage of capital and entrepreneurial experience. No income distri-
bution data exist, but about 70% of the population live at subsistence
levels. Social services are still very inadequate; the school enrollment
ratio is among the lowest in the world, barely reaching 16% of the elementary
school age population.
Recent Economic Performance
7.        There is little economic data on Somalia.   Even basic figures
such as GNP, population, number of livestock, or output of major agricultural
crops are only rough estimates. Therefore, it is extremely difficult to
measure economic performance.
8.        Performance in mobilizing and investing resources sharply improved
during 1969-72 but it has been adversely affected by the drought of 1973 and
1974. The drought affected the entire central and northeastern parts of
the country involving a large part of the population, mostly nomads. The
Government moved quickly to respond to the situation and began to set up
relief camps in November 1974. Relief camp population peaked at about
270,000 in late May and early June 1975. While the Government's foodgrain
reserves were almost totally exhausted by the end of 1974, food aid was
received in sufficient volume to cope with the immediate problem of hunger.
However, despite prompt action by the Government and the response of foreign



-3-
aid donors, the loss of human lives reached 19,000 by the end of summer
1975. Given the size of the disaster, this was a relatively low figure
and is an indicator of the growing effectiveness of the Government. However,
there was extensive loss of livestock estimated at 25 to 30 percent of the
national herd. As a result cf the drought, exports of livestock and
bananas, the two largest earners of foreign exchange, were reduced and large
imports of maize, sorghum, rice and sugar were required.
9.        The May-September rainy season in 1975 alleviated the drought
considerably and the relief camps have since been disbanded. About 104,000
people from the relief camps have been relocated in the three agricultural
settlements of the interriverine area and 14,000 settled in coastal fisheries;
the remainder have returned to their nomadic life.
10.       Somalia's manufacturing sector consists of a few relatively large-
scale publicly owned enterprises and some small privatte enterprises. Out of
an estimated value added in industry of US$20.1 million in 1973, about 80%
was in the public sector. Most of the industries are agro-based, depending
upon locally produced raw material. Food processing accounted for over 58%
of value added in industry during 1973. After making strong progress in the
period 1968-70, a period of relative stagnation started in 1971 and lasted
until 1973. Indications are that industrial activity may have picked up in
1974-75.
11.       Somalia's recent fiscal performance has been most encouraging and
it reflects the Government's emphasis on self-reliance. Current revenues
have increased from US$38.1 million in 1969 to an estimated US$90.5 million
in 1974 and the current account position has changed from a net deficit of
US$2.0 million in 1969 to a surplus of US$11.6 million in 1973. The rising
trend in public savings was not sustained in 1974; against projected savings
of US$19.7 million only about US$11.1 million is estimated to have been
realized. A diversion of resources to the crash literacy program for the
rural areas is responsible for part of the shortfall.. Other factors ad-
versely affecting public savings were the more-than-doubling of budgeted
police and defense expenditures over this five-year period, the failure of
public enterprises to generate planned surpluses and the emergency expenditures
incurred for drought relief in 1974.
12.       Government recurrent expenditures, which already account for
slightly more than one-fourth of estimated GNP, are likely to grow more
in the next few years than in the past because of the continued burden of
displaced population and the implications for recurrent expenditures
resulting from the increasing level of development outlays. New sources
of revenue may be required since a substantial increase in rates of exist-
ing taxes may not be possible. Taxation should be reviewed with particular
attention paid to the potential role of public enterprises in mobilizing
resources for development.



- 4 -
13.       Somalia's balance of trade has been in deficit since independence.
In recent years, the trade gap has groun from US$13.7 million in 1970 to
US$101.7 million in 1974. Exports jumped from US$31.9 million in 1970 to
US$56.5 million in 1972, but then declined by 9% in 1973. Although export
volumes continued to decline, export earnings in 1974 are estimated to have
been slightly higher than in 1973 due to better prices for livestock and
meat products. The drought has caused reductions in the production of live-
stock, meat products, and bananas, which together account for about 90% of
Somalia's exports. Imports, on the other hand, have been rising steadily,
from US$56.8 million in 1971 to an estimated US$166.0 million in 1974.
While the rate of growth of imports appears high, some attempt has been made
to constrain food imports, at the cost of shortages during 1974 of sugar,
edible oil and foodgrains, and the proportion of development imports appears
to have increased from around 25% of the total in 1971 to about 40% in 1974.
14.       Somalia's trade deficits have, until recently, been offset by
transfer receipts and capital inflows which together averaged about US$28.0
million per year in the period 1968-72. In 1973 and 1974, however, transfers
and foreign borrowing, despite an increase to over US$79.0 million per year
were insufficient to cover the trade gap. The overall balance of payments
deficits were US$7.2 million in 1973 and US$9.0 million in 1974 and were
financed by an outflow of reserves.
15.       Foreign aid has played and will continue to play a crucial role in
Somalia's economic development. The level of foreign capital inflows has
increased from an average of US$39 million per yezr (62% grants) in 1960-69
to US$59 million (approximately 50% grants) in 1973 with the result that on
a per capita basis, Somalia receives substantially more aid than most other
developing countries. In the 1960's the main contributors were Italy, the
United States, the European Economic Community, Germany and the USSR. More
recently, China and North Korea have become important lenders; China is now
financing the largest single-aided project, the Belet Wein-Burao Road, which
will link the southern and northern parts of the country. However, this
pattern of foreign aid now appears to be shifting -- the Arab oil-producing
countries are becoming a major source of development assistance. The Bank
Group has played a relatively modest role; IDA credits accounted for only
about 10% of gross capital inflows during 1970-73.
16.       Most of the assistance to Somalia has been on soft terms.    In mid-
1974, the disbursed part of Somalia's foreign debt amounted to about US$145
million. Major sources of external capital were the USSR with 38%; Saudi
Arabia, Qatar, Libya and Iraq together accounted for a further 16%; the
Peoples' Republic of China for 9%; while the Federal Republic of Germany and
IDA each accounted for about 11%. Although a large share of this debt is
interest-free or at very low rates (2-3% per annum), the ratio of debt
service to exports has been rising, from 3.4% in 1972 to 5.8% in 1974 and
about 10% in 1975. It is expected to remain at that level until 1980. In
view of the poor resource endowment, uncertain export prospects and a public
and private savings performance still in its infancy, Somalia should exercise



caution in taking on external debt on commercial terms. Somalia should continue
to make every effort to obtain external aid on conces-.ionary terms.
Development Planning
17.       In 1971, the Somali Government launched a three-year development
program which called for public investment of US$143.0 million. The main
sectors of investment were transport and communications (36%), water resources
(12%), agriculture (11%), industry (9%), livestock (6%) and irrigation (4%).
It is estimated that about two thirds of the planned investment was achieved,
The 1971-73 development program was followed by a five-year program (1974-78)
calling for public investment of about US$620.0 million. A little less than
one-third is to be financed from domstic resources. The sectoral allocations
are: agriculture, including irrigation (29%), transport and communications
(24.5%), industry (15%), and livestock and range improvement (5%). Roads
account for most of the investment in transport and communications though
they have received less priority than in the previous plan. The most signi-
ficant feature of the current program is the sharp rise in planned investment,
from an actual level of about US$53.0 million in 1973 to an average of over
US$122 million per year in 1974-78 and the increased amount of domestic financial
participation.   The current plan is also more oriented towards directly
productive investments.
18.       Since the bulk of the population is engaged in herding or in sub-
sistence farming, a development strategy for Somalia rnust start with agri-
culture and livestock as a base. The major development goals of the Somali
Government include self-sufficiency in foodgrains, the partial substitution
of other food imports (oils, rice), and a concerted elffort to improve the lot
of the traditional nomadic herdsmen and eventually to settle some of them
permanently. These essentially production-oriented goals are reflected in
the eight-fold increase in annual investment in agriculture and irrigation
and four-fold increase in annual investment in industry (as compared to
the 1971-73 plan). The current plan's emphasis on irrigated agriculture is
meant to make the country less dependent on the errat:ic pattern of rainfall,
and assure relatively stable and predictable increases in output. Some at-
tention is continuing to be paid to projects in rainfed agriculture (mainly
through the Crash Program,the proposed North West Region Agriculture Project
and part of the proposed settlement project) which focus on how to make the
best use of the limited amount of rainfall.   The plan continues to base its
development of industry on the processing of domestic raw materials to produce
products mainly for import substitution.
19.     As it stands, the new five-year plan is probably overly ambitious
and its implementation as originally conceived has been rendered even more
difficult, because of last year's disastrous drought which forced the Govern-
ment to concentrate resources on measures to save the drought stricken popu-
lation. While the drought impact on the plan is like:Ly to mean a lower-than-
anticipated domestic financial participation because of large requirements
of public funds for use in emergency relief and rehab:ilitation, its long term
impact will not be entirely adverse. Implementation of the Drought Rehabili-
tation Program is in fact accelerating development of the agricultural sector
and is resulting in a larger inflow of foreign funds than originally anticipated.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
20.       Starting in 1965, IDA has made nine credits totalling US$58.1
million, about 60% of which has been made for transportation development
including construction of two trunk roads (Afgoi-Baidoa in the central
region and Hargeisa-Berbera in the northern region), and a new deepwater
port at Mogadiscio. IDA credits were also made for education in FY71
and livestock development in FY74. In FY75 a credit of US$8 million
was approved for a Second Education Project. No Bank loans or IFC
investments has been made to Somalia. IDA credits accounted for 20% of Somalia's
outstanding debt at the end of October 197:;. Debt service payments on
existing IDA credits in 1980 are projected at 9% of Somalia's total debt
service payments.
21.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of
February 1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Performance
on ongoing projects has been satisfactory, except for some    initial delays.
22.       We plan to concentrate our efforts on the country's directly
productive sectors, agriculture and livestock, and also on education and
transportation. While agriculture and livestock offer potential for develop-
ment, most rural development activities are only at the beginning stage.
Moreover, agricultural development in Somalia is particularly difficult
because most of the people in the rural areas are nomadic. Our first
effort in livestock was the Trans-Juba Livestock Project, approved in
FY74. The proposed project would be our first agricultural project in
Somalia.
23.       The country's transportation facilities are inadequate and the
Government plans to continue transportation development in the next few
years. The Second Highway Credit now under implementation provides for
feasibility studies and detailed engineering for the improvement of the
Hargeisa-Borama Road in the northern region. The studies will provide
the basis for a project which IDA might assist in financing in association
with other external lenders.
24.       Recently there has been a marked increase in resource inflow into
Somalia from the oil-exporting Arab countries. The Government expects this
trend to continue, but the lack of projects is a constraint. We are now
exploring various possibilities of assisting the Government in identifying
and preparing projects to relieve this constraint.
25.       As stated earlier, a severe drought struck Somalia in 1974.    The
emergency relief phase has been completed and the Government has now embarked
on rehabilitation; it requested IDA assistance in January 1975 to take a
leading role in the Preparation and financing of the rehabilitation program.
The proposed project (as well as several other projects) was prepared in
response. IDA's role has been a catalyst for attracting other external funds
for drought rehabilitation (paras 37 and 38).



-7-
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK IN SOMALIA
26.       Somalia is heavily dependent on the agricultural sector for its
economic development. However, with the exception of commercially produced
bananas and sugarcane, production is mainly for subsistence. About 70%
of the population are pastoralists, some of whom engage in subsistence
cultivation; an additional 15% are engaged in settled agriculture, fishing
and forestry. Of the total land area, 32% is too arid for any form of agri-
culture, 55% is suitable for grazing and 13% or 8 million hectares are
available for settled agriculture. Only about 600,000 hectares of the
8 million hectares of potentially arable land are now cropped. All land
belongs to the State.
27.       Rainfed sorghum, the most important food crop, is grown on about
350,000 ha., and total annual production ranges from 100,000 to 150,000 tons
depending on the rainfall. Dryland maize is the next staple food crop; the
area planted fluctuates between 50,000 and 80,000 hectares with annual pro-
duction averaging between 30,000 and 50,000 tons of grain. Bananas, sugar-
cane, rice, vegetables and fruits (mainly citrus) are grown under irrigation.
Some groundnuts, sesame, cotton and pulses are also cultivated. Development
of rainfed agriculture has been constrained by low and erratic rainfall, poor
cultural practices, inadequate extension services, poor seed quality, severe
soil erosion, lack of agricultural credit, and inadequate and uneven distri-
bution of water facilities for both human and livestcck consumption.
28.       The national livestock herd consisted, before the drought, of an
estimated 3 million cattle, 14 million sheep and goats and 2.5 million camels,
owned almost exclusively by nomads. As most of Somalia's land area is suit-
able only for extensive livestock production, these herds represent the
country's most readily exploitable economic resource, and provide a basic
livelihood to the majority of the population. However, constraints impeding
efforts to increase and improve livestock production include the deteriorating
condition of the ranges due to droughts and disease and lack of properly
distributed animal watering facilities. Somalia has a well established
traditional livestock marketing system. Most towns or villages have a cattle
market where buyers (traders, butchers) and sellers (stock-breeders, farmers,
nomads) gather daily. In more remote areas, traders use trucks or camels
to visit the nomads.
29.       The Government provides a wide range of services to the agricul-
tural sector through the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range, the Agricultural Development Corporation, the Water
Development Agency and the Somali Development Bank. The Ministry of Agri-
culture suffers generally from a lack of funds, a shortage of trained staff,
and insufficient transport facilities. The Ministry has a total staff of



- 8 -
about 670, of whom 60 are extension staff with some training in their field,
but the quality of training is variable. The overall situation is expected
to improve, however, as agricultural graduates from the University of
Somalia and graduates from the Vocational Agricultural Secondary School
become available from 1976/77, and as additional agricultural extension agents
are trained under the Project.
30.       The Livestock Development Agency (LDA) was established in 1966 as
an autonomous government agency to coordinate and promote livestock develop-
ment as well as the marketing and export of livestock and livestock products.
Beginning in 1969 LDA started to supply the Kismayu Meat Factory with live
cattle and to organize the export of live animals from the North; its trading
operations have since expanded rapidly.
31.       The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), an autonomous
agency of the Ministry of Agriculture, was set up in July 1971 with monopoly
powers for the purchase of all marketable surpluses of sorghum, maize, oilseeds
and cotton from farmers, procurement of sorghum and maize from abroad (when
necessary), and the sale of grain to the regional government authorities and
municipalities at prices fixed by Government. The regional government-
authorities and municipalities in turn sell grain at a Government-fixed price
which covers their operating costs. The National Tractor Hiring Agency (ONAT)
operated by ADC until 1972, provides tractor hire services for farm operations.
ONAT's operations are dispersed over a wide area and its management experienced
in handling large-scale activities. The Water Development Agency (WDA) is
an autonomous agency within the Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources which
designs and undertakes the siting, drilling and equipping of boreholes for
municipal and rural water supply and the excavation and maintenance of arti-
ficial reservoirs for livestock. It has some 25 drill rigs and other auxiliary
equipment and its staff includes qualified hydrologists.
32.       The Somali Development Bank (SDB), a Government banking institution,
provides medium and long term loans to both industry and agriculture. In 1972
SDB extended loans of US$1.6 million for industrial development and US$0.8
million for agriculture -- mainly to large-scale and commercial enterprises.
33.       Since this Government came to power in 1969 one of its major goals
has been to settle the nomadic population while at the same time developing
the rangelands. In keeping with these goals the 1974-78 National Development
Plan concentrates on expansion and development of the agricultural sector in
order to raise farm incomes, provide employment opportunities for nomads,
attain self-sufficiency in basic food and cash crops and increasing exportable
production. This strategy is reflected in the Plan which emphasizes programs
for irrigation development in the area of the Juba-Shebelli Rivers; soil and
water conservation in other parts of the country and livestock development.
Action towards achievement of settling nomads as well as improving the range-
lands have been accelerated by the drought through initiation of a major



- 9 -
settlement scheme in the Juba-Shebelli area in the South (proposed for
fInancing by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development, the African
:Development Fund and the Association) and the Northern Rangelands Rehabili-
tation Project (proposed for financing by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development).
PART IV - THE DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
34.       Following the drought relief operations (para. 8) the Government
initiated follow-up programs of rehabilitation in 1975 with a view to assist-
ing the destitute nomads through (i) establishment of three settlements in
agricultural areas in the southern part of the country;    (ii) establishment
of fisheries settlements along the coastal areas; and (iii) initiating
measures to arrest deterioration of its rangelands and strengthening of
veterinary services through preparation of a Northern Rangelands Develop-
ment Project.
35.       About 115,000 - 120,000 nomads were moved from the drought relief
centers in Northern Somalia to the three agricultura:L settlements in the
southern part of the country and several fishing comaunities along the coast.
They were transpoTted to the new communities with the assistance of the
Government of the USSR which provided aircraft and trucks for this purpose.
36.       In addition to transporting the nomads the Government of the USSR
is providing substantial assistance to the Somali fishing industry. The
UNDP is also providing technical assistance for trairning nomads to be
fishermen.
37.       The Government of Somalia requested assistance for Drought Rehabi-
litation from the Association in January 1975. In order to assist Government
to formulate proposals which would be suitable for consideration by IDA and
other donors, four IDA missions visited Somalia between March and November
1975.   These missions identified, prepared and in certain cases appraised
a package of Drought Rehabilitation Schemes which included: (i) the Northern
Rangeland Development Project; (ii) the settlement scheme in the southern
part of the country; and (iii) three model projects in fisheries, forestry
and agricultural development. The Government requested that we concentrate
on the emergency settlement scheme in the south and the Northern Rangeland
Rehabilitation Project.



- 10 -
38.       During the Bank's Annual Meeting in September 1975 commitments
to finance these two projects were informally obtained from the Arab Fund
(US$20.0 million), the Kuwait Fund (US$20.0 million), and the African
Development Fund (US$5.5 millicn). Delegations from IDA, the Arab Fund,
Kuwait Fund and ADF visited Somalia in November 1975 for pre-negotiation
discussions. During these discussions it was agreed that the Kuwait Fund
would consider financing the Rangeland Rehabilitation Project in its
entirety and that the other donors would consider financing of the settle-
ment scheme with the Arab Fund concentrating on irrigated crop development,
ADF on health services, and IDA on start-up crop production under rainfed
conditions. In addition, assistance for permanent housing, food and other
supplies required by settlers is being explored and discussed by the Govern-
ment with other donors.
39.       The conventional approach to the settlement scheme would have been
to undertake studies for selecting sites, preparing development plans for
them, and then carrying out preparation works before moving settlers gradually
into the selected areas. However, the Government, under pressure of the drought
emergency, moved the settlers into the settlement areas and simultaneously
began to take all of the steps (land c½earance, providing shelter and medical
facilities, etc.) which should normally have been done before bringing in the
settlers. By the time the financing proposals were worked out, work toward
establishing the settlements was already well underway by the Government with
the aim of making about 20,000 destitute nomadic families into productive farm
families as soon as possible, thereby reducing the burden of relief expenditure
on Government resources which is running at the rate of about $1.5 million per
month. These special circumstances have had to be taken into account in formu-
lating the present project.
40.       The Government made it clear during the discussions that it wished
to irrigate as much of the cropped area as was possible, and indeed, con-
struction of irrigation canals was already well underway. Since the identi-
fication mission had assumed that the majority of the area would be developed
for rainfed cultivation and that only a small area would be irrigated on a trial
basis, it became evident that the project would have to be revised. IDA and the
Arab Fund therefore prepared a revised scheme which included the development of
both rainfed and irrigated agriculture along with the provision of technical
assistance and health services. The Arab Fund and ADF will submit separate
proposals to their respective Boards of Directors for the irrigated develop-
ment and for the health services components.



- 11 -
41.       The highlights of the projects to be financed by the co-financiers
are indicated below.
Northern Rangeland Development Project
42.       The project would be financed by the Kuwait Fund (based on an IDA
appraisal report) and provides for a comprehensive range development program
for northern Somalia which would include:
(A)  the establishment of grazing and drought reserves;
(B) the establishment of 20 fodder production units utilizing
water from flash floods or run-off from bare slopes by means
of water harvesting techniques;
(C) stock water development, the formation of grazing associations;
the institution of non-formal educational activities at all
levels to facilitate soil conservation and range management
programs; and
(D) expanded veterinary extension services.
Total project cost is estimated at US$21.0 million and the Kuwait Fund is
expected to finance the Project in its entirety. The loan will be made
at an interest rate of 1 percent annual interest plus an administrative
charge of 0.5 percent p.a. with repayment over 38 years including grace
period of 8 years. Contracts for all items procured exceeding US$50,000
will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding and dis-
bursement of the credit would cover 100 percent of goods and services
required for the project against appropriate documentation. The project
would result in substantial increase of total and marketed number of animals
and also increase the live weight of animals marketed. At the end of the
project period, offtake from all livestock would increase by about US$30
million. The project would be the first comprehensive effort aimed at the
rehabilitation of Somalia's rangelands. It is directed particularly to
subsistence level pastoralists seriously affected by the recent drought
and would be a technically simple intervention designedl to protect the re-
generation potential of the rangelands through the introduction of grazing
and drought reserves, establishment of border protection units and strate-
gically placed stock water development and the provision of veterinary
services. It would be systematically monitored and evaluated and the re-
sults as a basis for the development of future rangeland projects. The
overall economic rate of return for the project is estimated at 18 percent
and it is highly insensitive to changes in the basic parameters.



- 12 -
Juba-Shebelli Area Emergency Settlement Scheme
43.       Irrigated Crop Production in the settlement areas will be financed
by the Arab Fund. Irrigated farming will be developed on a total area of
15,000 hectares in the three settlements in the interriverine area. Nine
thousand hectares will be developed at Dujuma on the eastern bank of the
Juba river with 3,000 hectares each at Sablale and Kurtum Warey on the south
and north banks respectively of the Shebelli River. Irrigation will be pro-
vided either by pumping or diversion of the river flows or both. The works
wculd include:
(A) assisting the Government in improving and completing the
works it has initiated on 7,000 hectares at the three
settlements during 1975;
(B) the opening up of another 8,000 hectares and their full
development for irrigated farming;
(C)  provision of crawlers, tractors, pumps and a full comple-
ment of other agricultural machinery required by the project;
and
(D) construction of offices, stores and workshop.
The execution schedule envisages completion in three years. Internationally
recruited consultant services would provide support to project management
and offer practical training opportunities to selected members of its staff.
The total cost of the irrigated crop production component of the Settlement
Scheme is estimated at US$25 million.    At year 4 of the project's life the
works would enable production of about 5,000 tons each of corn and rice, 11,000
tons of vegetables and about 4,000 tons of cotton seed. At full production the
project is expected to produce 12,000 tons of corn, 11,000 tons of rice, 15,000
tons of vegetables and 7,000 tons of cotton annually. The economic and financial
rates of return are estimated by Arab Fund staff at 57 percent and 20 percent
respectively. The Arab Fund loan of $22.4 million equivalent would finance
about 90 percent of project costs. The loan would be at 4 percent interest
with repayments spread over 25 years including a five year grace period.
44.       The African Development Fund would finance the construction of three
hospitals with necessary equipment and furnishings -- one for each of the
settlements. The costs are estimated to be around US$5.5 million.
45.       The component proposed for IDA financing is described in Part V of
this report.



- 13 -
PART V - THE PROJECT
46.        In view of the emergency nature of the Drought Rehabilitation
Program and in order to save processing time, a separate appraisal report
is not being circulated.  A credit and project summary is attached as
Annex III to this report. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held
in Kuwait in February 1976. The Somali delegation was led by Mr. A. Herzi,
Secretary of State for Finance.
47.        The project would be an integral part of the Government's
emergency settlement scheme in the Juba-Shebelli area. It would concentrate
on the development of start-up production under rainfed conditions on some
15,000 hectares within the three settlements (Dujuma, Sablale and Kurtum
Warey). It would be a low cost and technically simple intervention that
would provide a sound base for the later intensificatlon of production in
the same area. It is estimated that cereal production resulting from the
project in year 4 would provide the basic food requirements of some 7,000
families or about 35,000 persons.
48.        The Project would develop an additional 15,000 hectares in the
Juba-Shebelli settlement areas, including 9,000 hectares of crop cultivation
in Dujuma and 3,000 each in Sablale and Kurtum Warey over a three-year
period and would include provision for:
(a)   25 crawler tractors for bush clearing on 15,000 hectares;
(b)   100 tractors with attachments to be used for ploughing;
(c)   8 four-wheel drive vehicles;
(d)   6 mobile workshops and 3 office buildings;
(e)   technical assistance;
(f)   project monitoring, evaluation and preparation; and
(g)   local staff.
Detailed Features
49.        Bush Clearing.  About one-third of the bush in Dujumra would be
heavy forest cover necessitating the use of heavier equipment and a higher
manual labor component, while the remainder would be medium or light bush.
The required investments would therefore include five 200 to 220 hp crawler
tractors with rippers, and twenty 140 to 160 hp crawlers; additional items
would include ancillary equipment, spares and operating costs over three
years. The bush clearing would be carried out over a three-year period,
with approximately one-third of the total area cleared in each year.



- 14 -
50.       Agricultural Machinery.   Two types of wheel tractors would be
provided to carry out the ploughing and cultivation of-the 15,000 hectares;
these would include 20 tractors of 90 to 100 hp and 80 tractors of 60 to 70
hp. The smaller tractors would also be used for transport during that time
they were not required in the fields. A lump sum equal to 20 percent of the
tractor cost was included in the cost estimates for the purchase of tractor
attachments including ploughs, harrows, toolbars, furrowmakers, etc. Other
investments would include a 15 percent allowance for spare parts, 50 trailers
(1 for each 2 tractors), handtools and fifty stationary threshers. Operating
costs would be supported for the three-year development period. A lump sum
of US$10 per hectare was allowed for the purchase of seed for start-up pro-
duction, and it was assumed that the seed would be purchased locally.
51.       Workshops, Office Buildings and Vehicles.    Six mobile workshops
would be provided to help service the vehicles, equipment and agricultural
machinery. Two mobile units would be set up in each of the settlements
under the control of a master mechanic to be provided under technical assistance.
A central office building of simple structures would be constructed in each
of the three settlements and a limited amount of office equipment and furnish-
ings would also be provided. In addition, eight 4-wheel drive vehicles would
be provided for use of project administrative staff.
52.       Technical Assistance, including project monitoring, evaluation and
preparation would be an important aspect of the Settlement Scheme.
(i) Monitoring and Evaluation: The irrigated and rainfed components
of the Settlement Scheme would be continuously monitored and evaluated durir,g
implementation. To this end, an Evaluation and Monitoring Unit (Unit) se-
parated from the day-to-day activities of the projects is proposed. The Unit
would concern itself with costs, benefits, changes in socio-economic patterns,
etc.
(ii) Preparation: The future project preparation would include: (a)
review and updating of the physical resources data contained in past studies;
(b) the preparation of land use maps combining soil classification, crop ecology,
climatic data and the status of water availability including underground water
supplies to provide a basis for future development; and (c) the formulation of
an agricultural development plan or plans with objectives in the medium and long
term including crops, livestock, forestry, watershed conservation, agro-industries
and agricultural infrastructure. This work would take into account data obtained
from the ongoing irrigated and rainfed projects and would form the basis for iden-
tification of future projects and their preparation for international financing.
(iii) Technical assistance required to assist Somali personnel in organizing
agricultural production in the 3 settlements would be provided by a single firm.



- 15 -
As some of the technical consultants would be shared by both the Arab Fund
and IDA supported project, an estimate was made of the total assistance re-
quired and staff time apportioned between each. A total of 11 internationally
recruited specialists for a total of 31 man-years would be required for a three-
year period, as well as 3 man-years for short-term consultancies. Of this total,
4 internationally recruited specialists for a total of 12 man-years have been
ap)portioned to the proposed IDA project. As the technical services component
is considered essential for the successful start of the project, agreement has
Seen reached with Government that the firm of consultants would be selected
and that the procurement advisor would be in post within four months from
the signing of the Credit Agreement (Section 3.,02(a) of the Development Credit
Agreement).
53.       The study(ies) to be undertaken by the Government of Somalia for
consolidating and further developing the settlements and preparing future pro-
jects in the Juba/Shebelli interriverine area, would be financed by the Arab
Fund. The terms of reference and appointment of consultants, both for the
technical assistance required for organizing agricultural production on the
three settlements and the study(ies), would be mutually agreed upon between
the Government, the Arab Fund and the Association. The Arab Fund and the
Association will closely cooperate in the supervision of the consultants and
the review of the study(ies) to be prepared by thema.
54.       Local Staff.  A large number of local staff will be required and
Government will be responsible for providing the staff and paying their
salaries.
Organization of Production
55.        Initially the major emphasis of the settlement would be on land
clearing and preparation, crop production, and the process of adapting the
nomadic pastoralists to a settled agricultural existence. The realization
of crop production targets is essential in the short-term; large quantities
of food grains will be needed to feed the people living in the area, and the
import of these grains now constitutes a serious drain on the foreign exchange
resources of the Somali Government. For the presenit, therefore, the cropping
program would be carried out on a centralized and consolidated basis in order
to make the most efficient use of equipment, labor and other limited resources.
At a later stage, Government will most likely consider a number of options
as to the organization of the crop areas. One alternative for therainfed
crop area which has beenmentioned is that the area should be divided into
plcts of about 400 hectares, which would then be cooperatively cultivated
by groups of 100 families. Division on this scale would allow a reasonably
intensive supervision -- an essential factor until such time as the new
settlers gain the necessary experience in agricultural techniques. In any
case, whatever production system should be adopted, the settlement management
would for a long time be required to provide common services and inputs such
as land preparation, improved seed, fertilizer, crop protection chemicals,



- 16 -
storage, marketing and extension services. The farmers would perform most
of the other production operations including seeding, spraying, harvesting
etc.
Project Organization and Management
56.       Overall responsibility for the direction and coordination of the
settlement would be assumed by the National Rehabilitation Committee of the
Supreme Revolutionary Council. The Committee would operate through a Settlement
Development Agency, a new autonomous body which the Government has agreed to
create for this purpose (Section 3.01 (b) of Development Credit Agreement).
Its establishment would be a condition of effectiveness. The Settlement
Development Agency would be based in Mogadiscio, and have full operational
authority over all development being carried out within the three settlements.
57.       The three settlements would be under the direct authority of a
General Manager, who along with certain other administrative staff (personnel,
legal, accounting, etc.) would be located in Mogadiscio. In addition to these
a large number of staff would be required in the settlements (571 in Dujuma and
225 each in Sablale and Kurtum Warey). Each settlement would be under the day-
to-day control of a Settlement Manager, who together with a Deputy Manager
would be responsible for all Project activities. The manager would operate
through three field divisions -- administration, services and production. The
latter division would be the largest, and would itself be divided into three
branches: (a) a specialist branch including agronomists, horticulturalists,
livestock officers, etc.; (b) a field operations branch providing such services
as land preparation, irrigation, and irrigated and rainfed crop protection;
and (c) a production branch composed of field operators/extension agents
dealing with day-to-day crop development activities. These staff would serve
both the Arab Fund and IDA supported components of the scheme.
Project Cost and Financing
58.       Total project costs (excluding taxes and duties of US$1.0
million equivalent) are estimated at US$9.8 million, of which US$8.0
million or about 81% reperesents foreign exchange requirements. Project
costs are based on actual and estimated prices prevailing in November 1975.
A physical contingency of 5% on crawlers, tractors and vehicles and 10%
on all other items has been included. In addition overall price contin-
gencies of about 14% have been included on all investment costs to allow
for expected increase in foreign exchange and local costs.



- 17 -
59.       The proposed IDA credit of US$8.0 million would finance the
foreign exchange cost. To finance local costs, the Government would
contribute (net of duties and taxes) about US$1.8 million equivalent or
19% of the total project costs.
60.       In order to control Project expenditures, the Government has
agreed to open a special Drought Rehabilitation Project (DRP) account
in the Somali National Bank (the Central Bank) (Section 2.02(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). The Government's contribution to the
cost of the Project and the amounts withdrawn from the proposed credit
(except those payments made by IDA directly to the suppliers of goods and
services for the Project) would pass through the special DRP account. As
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit, the Government would
establish the DRP account with the Somali National Bank. It would be
essential to prefinance Project expenditures for working capital purposes;
otherwise, delays would likely occur. In order to provide working capital
and to avoid delays, immediately after credit effectiveness, Government
would make an initial deposit of US$100,000 equivalent into the account.
Procurement
61.       Procurement of crawlers and wheel tractors (both with spare parts),
agricultural machinery, trailers, mobile workshops and vehicles (US$4.8
million) in orders exceeding US$50,000 would be by international competitive
bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever
possible. Contracts for small buildings (US$110,000 excluding contingencies)
which because of their size and location would not attract international
competitive bidding would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which are satis-
factory to IDA. Comparative shopping or purchase oE stock items off-shelf
would be applied in procuring the remainder of goods and/or services.
Disbursements
62.       The proceeds of the Credit would be disbu-rsed over three
years on the basis of:
(a) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of:
(i) imported equipment, machinery and materials;
(ii) consulting services;
(b) 65% of operating costs (excluding local salaries); and
(c) 70% of imported equipment procured locally.
63.       Disbursements against (a) and (c) above would be fully documented.
Disbursements against (b) would be against statemenl:s of expenditure



- 18 -
certified by the Financial Controller, the documentation of which would
not be submitted for review; such documents would be retained by the
Settlement Development Agency and would be available for inspection
in the course of supervision missions.
Benefits and Justification
64.       Benefits have to be evaluated in terms of the contribution of
the project and the total program towards meeting Governmentts immediate
objective of rehabilitating drought-affected nomads and the longer run
national objective of settling its nomadic population in more sedentary
and productive pursuits. Alternative income-earning opportunities for the
destitute nomads from the North are to be found only in the southern
settlement areas, and the problem should be viewed in the context of the
fact that Government would have to continue to feed, house and clothe the
settlers.  Government expenditures for these purposes have been running
at more than US$1.5 million per month excluding foreign relief donations.
Thus, settling people as productive farmers will relieve a very substantial
drain on the Government budget and also result in saving the foreign exchange
that would have to be spent on food unless external relief assistance were
provided for an indefinite period.
65.        The entire Drought Rehabilitation Program addresses the immediate
objective of rehabilitation. However, only the rangelands and irrigated
part of the Settlement Scheme have been studied in the context of a long-
term development pattern. In the case of the rainfed part of the Settlement
Scheme which is proposed for IDA financing, the elaboration of a long-term
agricultural development strategy depends on experience gained in the
implementation of the project and the outcome of further studies, which will
be carried out as part of the project. It therefore would not be meaningful
to attempt to calculate an internal rate of return for this part of the
Settlement Scheme at present.
66.       The three main components of the Drought Rehabilitation Program
(rehabilitation of the northern rangelands, irrigated cultivation and
rainfed cultivation in the settlement scheme) are all complementary within
a balanced and speedy rehabilitation efforts. In addition to the benefits
mentioned in paragraph 64, the benefits will include:
(a)  the first comprehensive effort aimed at rehabilitating about
140,000 km2 of rangelands in the North, representing about
one third of the country's total rangeland areas and the
consequent expansion and more efficient utilization of total
livestock population owned by subsistence level pastoralists
who have been seriously afflicted by the recent drought.



- 19 -
The transfer of more than 100,000 nomads relieves the
population pressure in the North, which is a prerequisite
to the rehabilitation of the Northern rangelands which
will be financed by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development. As a result of that project, it is hoped
that the ranges would increasingly become more resistant
to droughts;
(b) interim emergency food production within four years, on an
area of some 30,000 hectares, half of which would be under
rainfed and the other half under irrigated conditions on
previously unutilized agricultural land in the settlement
areas. In year Four, output from the rainfed project is
estimated to contribute about 7,000 tons of corn and sorghum
and the irrigated portion about 5,500 tons of corn, 5,000
tons of rice, 11,000 tons of vegetables and 4,000 tons of
cottonseed. The estimated production from both the rainfed
and irrigated areas would satisfy the basic food needs of
the 100,000 nomadic settlers relocated from the North into
the Juba/Shebelli area in the South;
(c)  assisting the Government in formulating medium- and long-term
agricultural development plans for the interriverine area to
be implemented at subsequent stages of the project. These
plans would be based on the results of monitoring and evaluation
of the proposed project as' well as results of other studies
to be undertaken during implementation of the project.
67.        The interriverine plain with a total area of about five million
hectares is considered -- due to climate and soil conditions -- to have
the highest potential for rainfed crop production in the country and it is
in this area that the proposed project is located. Ihe proposed project
area of 15,000 hectares represents only 0.3 percent of the five million
hectares estimated to be suitable for cultivation in the area. The higher-
than-usual risks involved in the start-up production in an as yet under-
utilized area and the environmental impact of the project as well as the
problems involved in adapting nomads to a new way of life are fully realized.
However, the project would assist in determining the pattern and feasibility
of future development of the five million hectares. It must, however, be
recognized that the benefits to be rea'lized from dryland farming in Somalia
are likely to be modest. There are nevertheless possibilities for improve-
ments in soil conservation, rational water development, and expansion and
improvement of crop farming leading to a gradually increasing mixed livestock
and crop production.



-20 -
68.        While there are substantial risks involved in the
proposed strategy,     the potential benefits from implementation of
the proposed program and of the project as an essential part of the
program, combined with the fact that the benefits will accrue to
destitute people for whom no alternative means of livelihood exist,
justify taking these risks. This belief is reinforced by the
outstanding performance already shown by the Government which has
demonstrated its efficiency and dedication in organizing and
launching successfully this ambitious drought rehabilitation program.
Legal Instruments and Authority
69.        The draft -0evelopment Credit Agreement between the Somali
Democratic Republic and the Association, the recommendation of the
Committee provided for under Article V, Section I(d) of the Articles
of Agreement of the Association, and the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed development credit are being distributed tc the
Executive Directors separately.
70.        Features of special interest are referred to in paragraphs
56 and 60 of this report. Establishment of the Settlement Development
Agency and opening of the Drought Rehabilitation Project account have been
made additional conditions of effectiveness of the Credit (Section 5.01).
71.        I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 31, 1976



AN!fEI I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
SOMALIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA 5HEET
LAND AREA TlHOU KAI21                         _____________ __
______________-                                SOMALIA                            REFERENCE CO1UNTRIFS I 19731
TOTAL      637.7                                     MnST RECENT
ARABLE      83.3                      1960      1970   ESTIMATF         ETHIIP14       TANZANIA      SENEGI *L
GNP PER CAPITA IUSSI                     60.0       70.0       80.0               70.0      110.0      200.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATIUN (Min-YR. MILLTINI            2.2        2.8        3.0               24.6       12.9        3. 8
POPUL^ATInN DENStTY
PFR SOIJARF KM.                       3.0        4.0        5.0              ZO.0        14.0       20.0
PER SQUARE KM. ARABLE LAND             ..         ..       36.0                , .      147.0
VITAL SrATISTICS
CRUOE BIRTH RATE PEW THOUSAND          ..       46.0       50.0              44.0        47.0       44.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PEP THOUSAND          .        24.0       22.0               25.0       22.0 0     22.0
INFANT MnRTALITy RATE I/THOUI          .          ..         ..                ..      160.0       156.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)         ..       39.0       41.0               39.0       43.0       41.^
GROSS REPRODUCTION PATE                *-        3.0        3.0                2.9        3.2        3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE It)
TOTAL                                 .a         7.4        2.4               2.2         3.0        2.t
UPRAN                                  ..         ..         .S .o0                       .0 /a,b    4. 0
URBAN POPULATION It OF TOTAL I           ..         ..         ..               13.0        b.0       29.0
AGE STRUCTURE IPERCENTI
0 fr) 14 YEARS                      44.0       46.0       45.1)             4'.0        44.3 /a    42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.0       52.0       53.0               sI./ 5/a    3.0 3 i   54.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.0        2.0        2.0 a.0 b                     3.0        5.0
AGE DFPFNOENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.9        0.9                1.0        0.,        0.9
FCONOMIC DFPENDENCY RATIO               1.5        1.5        1.3               (.1         I 1.Z/     IA
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCFPTORS ICUMULATTVF, THOUI           ..         ..         ..
USERS 1 OF MARR IED WOMENI            ..         ..         ..                ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE ITNOUSANO)          930.0     IJO.O     12501.0          LI333.J:)   5603.3 /a.b 16    0t-
LABnR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (II         8e.OL&     82.0                         85.0        91.0;7     73.0
UNEMPLOYEn 1 OF LABnR FrRCE)            ..       20.0/a       .                 .           .         7.0
INCnMF nISTRI8UTION
T nF PRIVATE INCnME REC o BY-
HIGHEST  St OIF POPULATION             ..         .-         *-                *         33.5 c
HIGHFST 202 OF POPULATION             ..          6. ..                        .        63.3 c
LnWSET 20t OF POPULATION               ..         ..         ..                ..3
LOWFST 40t nF POPULATION               ..         ..         ..                ...8
DISTPIRUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
___---------------------------
t OwNFD BY TOP lOt OF OWNERS            ..         ..         ..
2 lWNTO BY SMALLEST lot OWNERS           ..         ..         ..
HEALTH ANn NJTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            30000.0    21140.0    L5540.0           74550.;1   21570.043   14940.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        37o0.0     3690.0         . .          24040. 3    4890.0      2410. 0
POPVLAT ION PCR HOSPITAL REn          570.J     5s70.3         ..            3030.0       702.0,     130.0 b
PEP CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALeOR IFS It (IF REQUIREMENTS)      77.J       77.0       79.0               12.0       73.0       97.0
PROYFIN [GRAMS PFR DAYI              5r.0       57.0       56.0               . 9.0     43.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL ANO PULSE         19.04b     27.O        ..              s5.o0       Z3.0       28.0 M
OFATH RATE I/THOUI AGES 1-4                                  ..         ..         ..
fOUCA EION
AOJUSTEO ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHnOL                        9.0      bL.0         1t.O              16.0       37.0      3SR.. /d
TECONDARE SCHOOL                      1.0        4.0        9.0               4.0         3.3       15.0 /d.e
YEAPS (IF SLHOOLING PPOVIDED
IFIRST AND SFCONn LFVFLI             12.0       12.0       12.0              12.0       13.0        13.0
VOCAT IONRL FNROLLMENT
1 OF SFCONDARY)                       .          .c Li     5.0               5.0         4.0        7.3
ADULT LITFRACY RATE It)                  ..         ..        5.0               7.0          ..       10.0
HOUSI NG
PERSONS PER ROOM IAVERAGEI               ..         .          ..
OCCUPIFn DWFLLINGS WITHOUT
PIPcn WATER  t)                        ..         ..         ..                 .        30.0 /ad
ACCESS Tn ELECTRICITY
(tC OF ALL DWFLLINGSI                  .          ..         ...
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTEID
IO ELECTRICITY Itl                     ..         ..         ..
CONSUMPTION
RAn0(1 RECEIVERS IPFR THOU Pflpl       12.0       18 .0       2.0               s.0        11.0       69.0
PASSENGER CARS tPER THOU POP)           2.O a      2.0        3.0                2.J        3.0       11.0
ELECTRICITY IKWH/YR PER CAP)            5.0       L0.0       14.0               2t.0       29.0        4.0
NFWSPRINT 1KG/YR PER CAP)                ..        0.2         0. I              o.0oh      0.1         0.1
SEF NOrFS AND OEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



nesathenian noted, data for 1960 refer to 1959-1961, foet 1970 to 1968-1970, sod far Meca Recent Petitnore to 1971-1973.
-aSenegal has been. selected a as  e bj.etda country because of its d1fPCreer -5C-O-coeiei      stricrur   and s.lot.r se.-f-ard   -eloc-y and opice       le
5t-7'ALIA            1960    /a    1963;    Jb6 1961-63.
1970    la   Urban only;     (Is  1964-66;    /c  p~ublic edutcaion only.
740ST REMC EN STDlAfl:    /a    6-13 years ;    lb  iL-i7 years, Includes voc:ational el.cation;     /c  Accost estimate for 1973-74i is
much higher.
ETH1IOPI(A           1970    /a    15-59 years;     lb  60 years and over;     ft  Ratio of p.puLtIon under 15 and 60 and over to total labor force.
TANZ ki 1 A1970         (a    1967;    lb  Tanganyka only;     to  fl.useeoLds;    'd  Urban only.
SENEGAL              1970     /a   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over t. Labor force     9e 15-59,     lb  htoenaec    cpitaletb1       onne
-   7Z.  1964-66;     /d  Unadjusted;     (a  Lower sconadary leve.
Rd5 January 28, 1976
DEPThTTONS OFP SCOOt?. LWDIt`AT0RS
a (e&Lhon km-)7otato                                                                                 pernrMg paton - Fopulation dlivied by ceeter of pratticje ;-
TtlT alsurface area comprising land area and Inland waters,.ut                           n  Kenis radu4.ate nurses, t:1rsinedt or "certifiod-' nuroes,, and
ALrable - Mlost r-rent estiente of land area used temporarily or permanently              aLxillary persoinnel with, training or experience.
fuarculrtv,atcon, pastures, meAnt and kitchen gardens or to lie fellow.               Pouair       e   onea bed - Popeuiation dLivided by mutber of hospit,al bets
PavallasIhle    puobl:1c and prlvale general and speciallzed hospital and
iT/P oroo cap,tc. (M*3) - 0128 per capita estlrates at market prices, caleu-              rehabilitO,tlon centors; eu-eludesa nursing hones and estatilistiimenoo for-
latd b  sute  enve-sormethod as WorId Bank Atlias (1972-7!. basis).               crda       n   rsntv      an
ler capita s,,psly of ealortes (S of rect-ements) - Computed re-ncmtergy
Poultoned vital statistitcs                                                          cp;vannt of net food s uetl.ia   available in c oontr~y pe r ,apita  . fO   iy;
Popolatico  (olid-vt. nmi12ioTT7-As of July fli-si; if mat availa.ble, avenage            available sope-l~o  corprise trentic produaottn, teeporte lean eaperca,
of two en-3-yar nsiae.sd ohanges Sn reook; net cuppliso au-lude sonal~                                                                        feed, eeedm, quati_-
lIes used is food pete-coing and losses in distrlhtiotlse   reulrremntns
Poreulnfop  ensit-pee-sZgere Ian - Slid-yea  population per aqua-re kilo-           were estioitaed by1 Fi' hoe    n physiololgical needs for         ..erelativdny7
ecter (i/el isee-tarca) of iou-al area-                           a~~nd health conatderimec environmental temperature, body we,t4hts, ago a,ni
Ponaio  ensit,Y_- per ssuare Ice&of ar-able la-ed - C~omputed as above for          sex distribetiots of pcc'olatlon, and allowinig 10% for waste at he-mactoldI
atabe  un  ory.                                                                     level.
Per capita supl    ef prote,-t (tramts per. day) - protein content of peer
Viital statistics                                                                         capita nor supply ofood per day; net supply of food Is dnflned ao
Crd   a',~rate p.er thousand - Annuial live births per thousand of aid-             above; reqeoiremser.ts for cli countries establiLshed by USDA Sconoric
yerppi ilont  usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                  Research Set-rices provIeframnmu            loac      f60gaso         oa
1775 for devaloping countries.                                                          protoin per day, and 20 greets of animal and pulse prootein, of etuich 2K
rd  eth raeoathousand - Annual deaths per t~hovsand of mid-year                       gram  should be ant-al pr-tein; these stand-rds are lower th'an, thiose ef
population; usually'five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    75 grams at total protetn und 23 grann of aaetcal poroteti aso an avcraoge
for developing countries.                                                                for the world, jrp-p-nd toy eA-SOL theis Third Woe-ld fud Surve,
nfafnt mortality rate C/ho) - Annual deaths of Infanta under coo yearPecaiapoeneplyrmanalnipus                                             -P-tenupyofod
of age p-e nhoeonandLv     ititha.                                                      deie     rmaieaso           ussno grams oar day.
Lie exetnya          it     ~)-Aeaessbro               er ffe     eDenn,Pohi rate ('thou)ages t-h                       Annual deaths per thousand In. age group 1-!.
agabit;usull    fve-yea                                                           e   ,ul   r averagec ending in t96), 1970 and  er.  ocdI sn  thic age gro,p; auggeatad as an indioator ofso-
1975 for developing countries,.                                                         nu~trition.
tlg~rasreproduction rate - Average ouster of live daughters a woman will
berI  e  omal reproductive period if she emperieroes present age-              Education
specific fertitlity rates; usually fine-a-ear averages ending in 1960,                peutderjnn            ai      - rmr   5chool - Enrol.motse  of all ages ao per-
1970 and 1975 for devcloping cosutries.                                                 rsage ofpimr        neoo-age pop      tlaton; includies chldren aged 6-Il
LsIdatin gowunds rate     )- total - Comosd annual growth rates of mid-                   years but adjusted foe' different lenegthes of primary education; for cocos-
yearpopela ton  or 1.95040, 19*0-70, andl 1960 to most recoot year.                 tries with seniversjal odluataion, enrollmrent may ecened 100  siu-     toe
Pouaion growth rate (I) - uroban - Computed like growth rate of total                  pujpils are below or abc-ic the official school age.
popultin     d'ifferent dlefinitions of uo-ban areas may affect cs-epars-              Adjusted enrolLotent ratio - seconaysho            otptda      bv;ccrl
teility of data among counitries.                                                       ary education r-qulros at, least four years of approved primnary ir-struc-
droop vopulation 7% etotal) - Ratio of urban to total population; dif-'to                        provides generall, vocatlonoi or teacher training inst-rectlons for
fe-entdefnltota ot tobnaesmy         fctceprbliyo              nsppils cf 12 to 17 years or age; ocrrespo.ndnue courses nr. generolIly
ace ntuntrics.        Oitn      c                                                   excl-uded.
enitecoc ICilden -        ~  1years), sorting-age (15-6. years),             ,er,fstolftpoided (frt -an scd                   lvl)-Total ynare o,f
ye.arn ad over) as peron,tages of' mid-year papulattasn.                -ohoaio;    n  enrear    Inol onalnlinsie.-uion e-s be pae-tially
ige dependecon- rati  -   a     of population esrder ISad 65 and aver to                  or cop2etely ec-ldedd.
t-os  of ug.s In   Lo-atgt 6!.                                                        V-osto...l enrolet(,e         nolof        Vooatianal institut-ion-  out
,o-noonie- deoendet-r ratis - Ratlic  f population wider 15 and 65 and avrteohniosl                   idsraorther programs sdeich operone indeprvendwtI7 or
bc he- labor fecit age group of 15-do yerar.       -as departments of secondary iLnstituttons.
toriy clam-etoc - acceptor  coaaS        thou) - Cursul-atice ouster of               Adl    ieac    rate(5    - Literate adults (able to read and write) ozo er-
acceptors of blrth-cnntrol devices under aLspIces of national faminly                   centage of   otal aletult population, aged 15 years and over.
planning program since tnceptton.
Familyplannngf, usr's I'% of mr5trie  wosee) - Percentages of married                   Hlotti ng
wome  of bi 1-'oerlm  age(lI   years) who Use birth-oentrul de-                  Pesn     irrom     aeae       Average number of persona per roone in' occupe
vicesq to all ssr?io-i women in same age group.                                         cnetoa        delnoPeubtareas; dweliLngs ecu-lude non-perrvnenct
structures and uneocc-upied torts.
t~~~~~~~~~L  ent  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      OcuId --alie         Itnut.,piped watar ()-Occupied conventional dwell-
foahSrforce   thousad) - Econonically active persons, ine.lading                  sc"is in ubnnand riua areas without in sIde sr outside pipeoL water
at-me  force  as (,otEre  ed best excluiding houses-fees, situds, s, etc. -facilities no perc antA7e of all occupied dwellings.
lfeitions rin various countlries are not cormarable.                               ireses" to elertlott   i%q f 'U- dwellings) - Co-eventienal dwsllings w_ith
tee-or forte in a  tulturs (5    - Agricroltural Saber feirce (int feaminrg,              electrictyilvcg         ua,tors as percent of total dw.ellings in to-iar,
forsti-   b nt c, and fishing) as percertage of' total labor farce.                ant' rural areas.
Urenplosed (U 1-i abo   force) - t!esplryed are   eso,ally defined as per-              Rural duellinn ec-reneted to olectriciop    5)    Compuseted as acove for met-C
sonowhoareabl  we  wling to lake a lob, ou~t of a Jab on. a given                   deleg       ny
-Any. remeained o,tt of a job, sod seediog work far a specified ninimsa
period not   xeecdleg one week; say noat be ceprbcbetween coon-                      ttons urptsi on
cries itie to dift`erent definitdems of unemployed and soon-e of data,                Rai     eev',(~rthou ro) - tll tyees of receivers fir radio, brool-
e.g., emplo,yment pc/"ice statlsllcs, sampie surveys, compulsory unree-                 cascs to general puablic per thousand of populations eorludes unlicanool
ploy-mecst Insurance,                                                                   receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was
los ef'fect; data foe- recent years smay not boe comnparable since reost onus-
Inceose disitributien - percentage of private inocee (both in cash and                    tries abolished lice-suin.R
ki~ndrr receive-d b.1y ne-best 95, richest 20%, poorest 2(19, ned poorest             Fauoenar ca-s(tthaupp           - Passenger care ceoeprise motor cars seatintg
Lefl of orp-tlatic'cr.                                                                  T~rK'E.     F  iiTh      xcludas ambulances, hearses and military
vehicles -
Distrtb,ttie-n of latid ownership - Pearcentages cf lsnd oweed by wealthiest            El                    2rrp     - Arnnual coreumption of industrial, cocceertial,
756 ondi poorest liP of land owrers.                                                    E6Eii      Wptii    oo maea rctriclty In kilowtt hours per capita; generally
based on produe- Lion data, without allowance for losses Ins grids bu-t allow-
He-lth ai~d Nutrritiont                                                                   lug roe- ieparts and exports of electricity,
Focoelatio-  cr otey-sle-O   - Population  divilded by number of practicing             Newsprint (kg!ye- por Paz,) - Per capita arnnul consurmption in kilograms
eplkste-Iiao  eeeealieie-J fe-om a mstidal school at eiies -. eel.                      estimated fe-o  d)tmstie :.reduoton plus net iee9sorts of newsprint.



ANNCEX I
p.ge 2
SOMAL LA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT                                                                                                A.NM.CAI. RATE OF CROWfl) - 71 H oO ft 7rioro)
USS Mln.         2                                            1961 - v9           1969 - 73          1974
GNP at Market Prices (1974)                               260.0        100.0
Gross Doescc I7nvestent
Gross National Saving
Curreat ACcounC Balance    (1973)                         -69.1
E:ports of Goods, NFS (1973)                               71.1
Imports of Goods, NFS (1973)                              140.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODLCTIVIiTY
Value Add.d                                                                        V.A. Pr Wvrke
USS Min .                                               MIn                               USS
Agriculture
Indus try
Services
Unallocated
Total/Average
100.0                                            I''.O                              100.0
GOVERN>ENT FINANCE
General Govern ent                                        Central Covan tenr
(So.ShMln.)                     of CDP                              (So. Sh Mn.          7. of GDP
1973                1973      1969-73                                  1.971       1973     1969-73
Ourrent Receipts                                                497.8                                                                 446.4
Current Expenditure                                             414.7                                                                 374'8_
Current Surplus                                                  83.1                                                                 3   b1.6
Capital Expenditures                                             327.0                                                                327 0
External Assistance (net)                                       247.0                                                                 247.0
MONEY  CREDIT and PRICES                                                   1965           1970        1971                    1972           1973        1974
(Million SoSh outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                                                       220            466        391                      518            608         783
Bank credit to PubiLe Sector 2/                                              38            100         72                       13              5         2.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector-2                                             178            297        254                     315             622         916
(Percentages of Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 7. of GDP
General Price Index (1963 - 100)                                           127 .7         136.6      135.8                    131.8          140.3       165.8
Annual percentage changes ln:
General Price Index                                                         12.7            0.9       -0.6                     -2.9            6.5        18.2
Bank credit to Public Sector 2/.61.8                                                                 .28.0                   -81.9           -61.5       -52.0
Bank credit to Private Sector-                                              10 0           27.1      21405                    24.0            50.25       47.3
NOTE,    All conversions to dollars in thts table are at the averag     exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Total labor force; uneployed are allocated to sector of their noroal occupation.         Unallocatedn consists minly of une.ployed wrkers seeki.g thir f-rt job.
not available
not applicable
2/ Private sector here includes deceatralized, govermewnt-ovned enterprises.
Country Progr- I. FA,
Decenber 23, 1975



ANNEX 1
Page 3
SCMALLA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CkPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1971-73)
1971    1972      1973      1974-                                                  US $ Mln     7
(Millions US u)
Exports of Goods, NPS             48.3    66.3      71.1      55.07                Live Animals                         26.0     56.0
Imports of Goods, NFS             66.3    90.9     140.2     157.43/               Bananas                              10.8     23.3
Resource Gap (deficit - -)       -18.0   -24.6     -69.1    -102.4_/               Meat & meat products                  4.0      8.6
Hides and skin                        2.9       6.3
Interest Payments (net)           -0.4     0.2       1.4       1.9
Workers' Remittances                -        -       -       -16.65!
Other Factor Payments (net)
Net Transfers                     19.2     17.2     28.8      44.9                 All other commodities                 2.7      5.8
Balance on Current Account         0.6    -7.2     -38.9     -72.2                           Total                      46.4    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment          2.9      7.8      4.7       5.6              EXTERNAL DEBT, OCTOBER 1. 1975
Net M1T Borrowing
Disbursements                    ..      ..        ..        ..                                                            US $ Min
Amortization                     ..      ..        ..        ..
Subtotal                        3.3    14.5      27.2      55.7                 Public Debt, incl. guaranteed-'              360.7
Capital Grants                      -        -        -         -                  Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                 -        -        -         -                  Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                 -1.0    -0.8        -                                                     6
Increase in Reserves (+)           8.0     81-      -7.0     -10.8              DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1974-
a/ Includes allocation of SDR 2.0 million                                                                                       7
Gross Reserves (erd year)
Net Reserves    (eacd year)                                                        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                 5.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                                         Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          2.7     3.6
of which:   Petroleum         2.7     3.6
Exports                           -        -        -
of which:   Petroleum          -        -        -                         IBRD/IDA LENDING. (AUGUST 31. 1975) (Million US 9):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                           LBRD       IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed               -        26.7
Through   -    1971               Since April 1973                                 Disbursed                             -        27.5
US $ 1.00 - So.Sh 7.143           US 5 1.00 - So.Sh 6.295-'                        Outstanding intcl. Undisbursed        -        54.2
SoSh 1.00   US $   0.140          SoSh 1.00 - US $   0.160
1/ Estimated
2/ Exports f.o.b.
3/ Imports c.i.f.
4/ Trade balance
5/ Net non-factor services
6/ Ratio of Debt Service   to Exports of        . . not available
Goods and Non-Factor Services (estimate)
7/ Cencral Rate (Somalia avails itself of         . not applicable
wider margins). The Trade conversion
factor used by DFg is 6.233 So.Sh./US$.
8/ A $33 million dollar loan from the USSR (not included in this figure) has been publicized.      It was made for fisheries,
development (in conjunction with a grant for resettlement); terms and conditions are not known.
Country Programs I, SAN
December 23, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 295    Highways II (Hargeisa-Berbera); $9.6 million Credit of March 30,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: May 11, 1972; Closing Date:
originally December 31, 1975 and postponed to December 31,1976.
The construction of the Hargeisa-Berbera road has been completed
and opened to traffic. The road is still under contractor maintenance. The
feasibility and detailed engineering studies financed under this credit for the
proposed Hargeisa-Borama (third highways) project have been completed, and the
proposed project is currently being appraised.
Cr. No. 359     Port of Mogadiscio; $12.95 million Credit of March 15, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: September 10, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1977.
The physical execution of the civil works is going well after a
slow start. The Contractor is working three 8 hour shifts and 95% comple-
tion is expected in January 1977, nine months behind the original schedule.
However, of the nine months, the Contractor has been granted three months
extension, since additional works, financed under Credit 586-SO, will
take four to five months and have to be completed before the original works
can be completed. A settlement between the Government and the contractor
of the latter's claims for exchange loss compensation and price escalation
has been reached and has been agreed to by the Association. Funds available
for port operations equipment are sufficient only for a used 700-800 HP
tug. Likely sources for such a tug are being contacted for particulars and
quotations. Consultants for SPA management, port operations and accounting
services are expected to commence field work shortly.
Cr. No. 462     Livestock (Trans-Juba) Project; $10 million Credit of
February 20, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The Project Director began work in early February 1975. Up
to now, he has been recruiting staff, planning project implementation,
preparing tender documents for procurement of machinery and equipment and
construction of buildings and boreholes, and finalizing systems for
monitoring the project and keeping project accounts. Physical execution
of the project is expected to begin in the first half of 1976 with the
arrival of machinery and equipment and the start of the construction
program.
Cr. No. 511     Second Education Project; $8 million Credit of September 19,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: December 19, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Project implementation is proceeding satisEactorily. Civil works
tendering for most of the secondary schools, the Academy of Somali Studies



ANNEX II
Page 4
and the Elementary Teacher Training College is currently taking place and
construction is planned to start later this year. Equipment contracts are
about to be awarded,furniture lists are under preparation and tenders are
scheduled to be invited later this year. Contracts for some nomadic train-
ing centers have been awarded to local authorities and construction is
expected to start by mid-1976. Although the project is proceeding on
schedule, the current estimate of final project cost is US$2 million above
the appraisal estimate including contingencies. Some of the cost overrun
may be offset by Local Government/self-help construction of nomad centers.
The Government is about to review and evaluate information leading to the
formulation of programs basic for implementing the Fishery and Marine
Institute component.
Cr. No. 586    Mogadiscio Port Extension Project; $5.2 million Credit of
October 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The casting of concrete blocks for the additional berth as well as
the breakwater extension, necessary for completion of the civil works financed
under Credit 359-SO, has begun.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SOMALIA - DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SHEBELLI AREA EMERGENCY S3ETTLEMENT SCHEME
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                     Somalia
AMOUNT:                       US$8.0 million equivalent
TERMS:                        Standard
PURPOSE:                      To assist settlement of drought stricken nomads
in three new agricultural settlements along the
Juba-Shebelli rivers.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION:          The proposedProject would support the development
of 15,000 hectares of start-up crop production
within the three newly established settlements
in the Juba-Shebelli area in the southern part
of Somalia. It would form part of,an emergency
agricultural settlement project supported by
IDA, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social
Development (Arab Fund), and the African Development
Fund. The Arab Fund would provide support for the
development of 15,000 hectares of irrigated
cultivation and the African Development Fund would
assist in the establishnent of three hospitals for
settlement populations. The Project would develop
9,000 hectares in Dujuma and 3,000 each in Sablale
and Kurtum Warey Settlemnent over a three-year
period and would include provision for:
(a) 25 crawler tractors for bush clearing on
15,000 hectares;
(b)  100 tractors with attachment to be used for
ploughing and cultivation as well as for
transport within the settlements;
(c) 8 four-wheel drive vehicles;
(d) 6 mobile workshops and 3 office buildings;
(e) local staff;
(f)  project monitoring, evaluation'and preparation;
and
(g) technical assistance.



ANNEX III
Page 2
ESTIMATED COST:                 Total Project cost is estimated at US$10.8
million with a foreign exchange components
of US$8.0 million or 74%. Taxes and duties
on Project items are estimated at US$1.0
million.
FINANCING:                                            US$ Million           %
IDA                      8.0               81
Government               1.8                19
Total                    9.8              100
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year           Annual         Cumulative
1977                 2.2              2.2
1978                 3.5              5.7
1979                 1.7              7.4
1980                 0.6              8.0
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS:       Contracts for all items exceeding US$50,000
would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
IDA guidelines; orders would be bulked when-
ever possible. Total procurement under ICB
would be valued at about US$4.8 million exclud-
ing contingencies and would include: 25 crawlers
with spare parts, 100 tractors with spare parts,
agricultural machinery, 50 trailars, 6 mobile
workshops, 8 four-wheel drive vehicles. Contracts
for small buildings (US$110,000 excluding con-
tingencies) which because of their size and
location would not attract ICB would be awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures
that are satisfactory to IDA. Comparative shopping
or purchase of stock items off-shelf would be
applied in procuring the remainder of goods and!
or services.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:           Four internationally recruited experts for a
total of 12 man-years.



ANNEX III
Page 3
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(US$ millions)
Foreign
Local     Foreign      Total     Exchange
Bush Clearing
(Crawlers, Equipment
Spares and Operating Cost)
Total                              0.8        2.9        3.7        79
Agricultural Machinery
(Tractors, Attachments
Spares and Operating Cost)
Total                              0.8        2.8        3.6        78
Workshops                                   I/        0.2        0.2         90
Office Building                            0.1         1/        0.1         10
Vehicles
Purchase and Operating Cost             0.1        0.1        0.2        57
Technical Assistance                        -         0.6        0.6       100
Local Salaries                             0.5         -         0.5        -
Sundries                                   1/         0.1        0.1        75
Total                              2.3        6.7        9.0        74
Physical Contingencies                     0.2        0.5        0.7         -
Price Contingencies                        0.3        0.8        1.1         -
Sub-total                          0.5        1.3        1.8         -
GRAND TOTAL                        2.8        8.0       10.8        74
Taxes and Duties Total                     1.0         -         1.0         -
Project Cost less Taxes and
Duties                                  1.8        8.0        9.8        81
1| Negligible.






.i -. ---. r t   ^ P e sPl   DEMOCRATIC
/-kr    \       REPUBLiC OF YEMEN
/  F  T  A   leA T-J
00801 RA s >  A
$  G 800r                       - 
GAL 8 0   A'                A    O    :  S ARi
""'s  , a *  E,|jroo  j                      E,MA bvUG
28  -    lO R S TI Y   flW   A R IA   A                - - - - -
,  - du u^ M e7n ,OIIAIUIVSTArSW AD:   * . . .-   CPEIs
~?I.1AT REAU,C3  I6AfSULWE
43                                                Ei ta   rv"7'rslRX   r /
4  t   t  ^4RM 7 WllAs0 MIAPO  MDII OS PLOJ T WJ DA PAK |
swat wNvesloerua.unrlwoatcr    Q    .        MUDUG
.'      cosos  KA   USe'  i    ei 80 -K
-:  BAKOOL   " GB   KA A GALt OC OUD 
BAKOOL    0 0,-                           -  P S TQAKOOURIASS
0050  -   ,   o i- 00CNAIRILETS ,_
3. .   N 0 S E I                M I L ESS V   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
'e    GOB OX          D H ABXG O !O   A                   IT   . - \K00xr:B 5_ 17   5 
v  GED°  Z<j"'f<Rz HdBA I  GOBOt O(A SHASFUtE OH8EXEn         rs 
e GOdrtA l zu s X9E z >-CC ---t ; -~~SAUDI ARABDIA           J
|~~~~~~~O                     GUAD4 iS05 \ r/ ole .-.L
r   X                                    .   u I E f H t OSz~r -<
(;O                         SOMALI A                  _    _U     AA
g .  Gobayf~ °°s   DROUGHT REHABILITATIDN PROGRAM     \>    je
R \  X   ~NORTH-ERN RANsGELAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT AND  / K<ENYAj_
tc       JU13AJSHEBELLI AREA EMERGENCY SETTLEMENT SCHEME  N  ik 
__             .  X _~~~~~~~~~~4               44e  SZ S .ao



