Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9 9 9-S O
TECHNICAL REPORT
SOMALIA
DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SHEBELLI AREA EMERGENCYi SETTLEiMENT SCHEME
June, 1976
Eastern Africa Regional Office                                                ;
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disciosed without World Bank authorization.






CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit            Somali Shilling'(So.Sh.)
So.Sh.  1.00     -      US$        0.16
US$     1.00            So.Sh.    6.30
So.Sh.  1,000           US$      158.86
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)      10,000 m      =      2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)                         1,000 meters (m)
1 square kilometer (km2)          =      100 ha
ABBREVIATIONS
SRC         Supreme Revolutionary Council
MLFR    =   Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range
ONAT        National Agricultural Machine Hiring Agency
GU      5   First Rainy Season Crop, April to June
DER     =   Second Rainy Season Crop, October to December
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL LUSE ONLY                                                                              CONFIDENTIA'
SOMALIA
DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SHEBELLI AREA EM(ERGENCY SETTLEKENT SCHEKE
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION    .......               ........................i
1. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND .1
Rainfed Agriculture  ...............................                      1
Agricultural Cooperative  ..........................                      2
II.    THE DROUGHT   ...........................................                        3
III.    THE PROJECT  ............................................                        6
A.    General Description .........................                   .         6
B.    Detailed Features  .................................                      7
C.    Project Costs .....................................                      10
D.    Accounts and Audit  ................................                     12
F. Supervision .12
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ............................                       13
V.    PRODUCTION AND PRICES  ..................................                       15
A.    Production  ........................................                     15
B.    Prices  - ..........................................                     17
VI.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ........ ..                   ..........    18
This   ficurnent has a r:es,r isee disitribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
oS their offic.j duxi~s , coxitents may nrot otherwise be disclosed without World Eank authorization.



APPENDIXES
1.   The Drought
Table 1 - Supply & Demand of Staple Food Items for 1975
2.   The Settlements
Chart - Organizational Chart of Resettlement Committees
(World Bank 15394)
3.   Project Costs - Rainfed Production
Table 1 - Scale of Operations, Equipment and Inputs Needed
Table 2 - Investment Cost Estimate and Phasing
Table 3 - Operating Costs
Table 4 - Technical Assistance
Table 5 - Staff Salaries
4.   Basic Assumptions
5.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursement and Implementation Schedule
Table 1 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Table 2 - Estimated Withdrawal of Proceeds of Credit
Table 3 - Estimated Project Implementation Schedule
6.   Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance, and
Description of the Juba-Shebelli Interdriverine Area Study
7.   Estimated Volume and Value of Production
Table 1 - Rainfed Production - 15,000 ha - Estimated
Volume and Value of Production
8.   Economic Analysis
Table I - Amount of Taxes and Duties
Table 2 - Assumptions for the Calculation of Taxes and
Duties
CHART - Organizational Chart (World Bank 15484)
MAP - Project Area (IBERD 11964)



SOMALIA
DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SHEBELLI AREA EMERGENCY SETTLEMENT SCHEME
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
i.        The Government of Somalia has undertaken a compreheusive agricul-
tural settlement program to help nomadic livestock producers recover from the
effects of the drought which devastated their herds and left them without any
visible means of self-support. The major focus of the settlement effort has
been on the establishment of three agricultural communities along the Juba
and Shebelli rivers in the southern part of the country. These settlements
are located on potentially valuable agricultural land which until that time
had been only sparsely settled.  The new settlements will thus serve the dual
purpose of providing a more secure future for the nomads as well as enabling
Government to develop new and much needed sources of food production.
ii.       rhe Project would develop 9,000 ha of rainfed cultivation in Dujuma
and 3,000 each in Sablale and Kurtum Warey over a three-year period. Specif-
ically, the Project would include proviyions foJ: (a) 25 crawlers for bush
clearing on 15,000 ha; (b) 100 tractors with attach ments to be used for plough-
ing and cultivation as well as for transport within the settlements; (c) 8
four-wheel drive vehicles; (d) 6 mobile workshops and 3 office buildings;
(e) local staff salaries; (f) technical assistance; and (g) Project monitoring
and future project preparation. During the initial years while the settlements
are being developed the major emphasis would be on land clearing and preparation,
crop production, and the process of adapting the nomadic pastoralists to a
settled agricultural existence. The realization of crop production targets is
essential in the short-term; large quantities of food grains will be needed to
feed the people living in the area, and the import of these grains now constitutes
a serious drain on the foreign exchange resources of the Somali Government. For
the present, therefore, the cropping program would be carried out on a centralized
and consolidated basis in order to make the most efficient use of equipment,
labor and other limited resources. At a later stage, Government will most likely
consider a number of options with regard to the organization of the crop areas,
crop diversification and intensification, and soil conservation measures.
iii.      Overall r-sponsibilblty for the direction and coordination of the
settlements would be assumed by the National Rehabilitation Committee of the
Supreme Revolutio-.iary Council. The Committee would operate through a
Settlement Development Agency. The Settlement Development Agency would be
based in Mogadiscio, and would have full operational authority over all
development programs being carried out within the three settlements. It
would thus have responsibility for the rainfed crop program supported by
IDA under the proposed Project, as well as the irrigated crop program to
be supported by the Arab Fund, and the hospital construction project to be
supported by the African Development Fund. It is envisaged that the Authority
would be headed by a Manag4ng Director.



DRCVUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SHEBELLI AREA EMERGENCY SETTLEMENT SC'
I. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.01      The Government of Somalia has undertaken a comprehensive agricul-
tural settlement program to help nomadic livestock producers recover from the
effects of the drought which devastated their herds and left them without any
visible means of self-support. The major focus of the settlement effort has
been on the establishment of three agricultural communities along the Juba
and Shebelli rivers in the southern part of the country. These settlements
are located on potentially valuable agricultural land which until that time
had been only sparsely settled. The new settlements will thus serve the
dual purpose of providing a more secure future for the nomads as well as en-
abling Government to develop new and much needed sources of food production.
Rainf ed Agriculture
1.02      Experience has shown that once the average rainfall drops appreciably
below 400 mm per annum, its distribution, both in terms of area and in time,
becomes so erratic as to make the practice of agriculture a very high risk
activity. This is particularly true in Somalia, where even in somewhat better
rainfall areas (hardly any place gets above 600 mm per annum), periodic
droughts are common. The Upper Juba region with a rainfall between 400-600
mm per annum is one of the best regions in the country for dryland farming;
rains fall in one out of four of the 'Gu' or main rainfall seasons (April-
July) and in one out of two of the 'Der' or subsidiary rainfall seasons
(Septamber-December). The major problems with dryland farming, however, are
that: (a) the land use potential is generally low because of inferior soils
and unfavorable climate; (b) the fertility of the land is gradually deterio-
rating due to nacural conditions as well as bad cultural practices; (c) due
to the unevenness of ratnfall in many areas, periodic droughts are common;
Cd) applied agricultural and livestock technology is primitive, reducing fur-
ther the land use potential; (e) as a result, the rural economy tends to
fluctuate betweera periodic famine conditions and subsistence. Even though
the nature of these problems has been reasonably well identified, accurate
quantitative data is almost complately lacking, as past records and develop-
ment efforts have focused primarily on irrigated agriculture. Moreover it
should be recognized that the opportunities to be realized in Somalia's dry-
land areas are modest.  They consist primarily of improvements in grazing
conditions, soil conservation, rational water development, and expansion and
improvement of crop farming leading to a gradually increasing mixed livestock
and crop production.



2-
1.03      The crops mainly grown under dryland conditions are corn, sorghum
and sesame for cooking oil. (Some corn and sesame are also grown under ir-
rigation). Corn is widely grown in Lower Juba, Benadir and Hiran regions,
while sorghum production is largely confined to the Upper Juba region in the
South and to parts of Eargeisa and Burao regions in the North. Both crops
are grown predominantly under dryland coiditions, but existing plans call for
a substantial increase in the area under irrigated corn. Information on
area and production is practically non-existent since corn and sorghum are
grown by widely scattered smallholders. Estimates for corn range from
30,000 hectares to 80,000 hectares, and for sorghum, the most important food-
crop, up to about 350,000 hectares 1/. Fluctuations in production and yields
are extreme due to the variability ln the weather, and the marketed share
of total production varies even more. Historically, the area under sesame
has varied considerably from year to year. Current production on an estimated
50,000 hectares is about 20,000 tons per season.
Agricultural Cooperatives
1.04      Government has been giving high priority to the development of
agricultural cooperatives, as these cooperatives are expected to be a dynamic
instrument in shaping the political, social, and economic objectives of the
rural development program. Thus far, however, the effort has not progressed
beyond its initial stages; the major constraints have been the shortage of
management and supervisory personnel, inadequate assistance, and a lack of
understanding on the part of the farmers of the real meaning of cooperatives.
Goverument is now making a concerted effort to support the development of
various types of cooperative enterprises, and it is expected that they will
become increasingly important in the coming years. Three types of agricul-
tural cooperatives have been given legal status:
(a)  Group Farms.  These are cooperative agricultural enterprises
established by at least 20 farmers or landless workers on jointly
reclaimed land for collective or semi collective cultivation
using modern technology and improved cultural practices; farmers
continue to cultivate their traditional holdings independent from
the collective. It is intended that gradually the collective
operation would be extended over the total land area. The group
farm should be attached to the Local Multi-Purpose Farmers
Cooperatives.
1/  Annual production averages between 30,000 and 50,000 m tons for corn
and between 100,000 and 150,000 m tons for sorghum.



- 3 .
(b)  Local Multipurpose Farmers Cooperatives.  These cooperatives
would have a minimum of 100 members and are designed to render
organizational, technical and administrative assistance to the
Group Farms and to help them set up their financial accounts.
They would also supply the inputs to Group Farms, provide ser-
vices, market their agricultural products and, if required,
handle their storage and processing.
(c) Production Cooperatives. These cooperatives would have a mini-
mum of 30 members and are expected to be the final stage of
agricultural cooperative development; farmers would pool their
resources and consolidate their land into large units, or the
State would assign new land to be cultivated collectively.
Members would be entitled both to work in the cooperative for
payment in kind (distributed according to the work done by them),
and to keep a homestead plot of 0.5 ha in the rainfed areas
(0.2 ha in the irrigated areas). The location of the homestead
plot would be determined by the managing board of the Production
Cooperative. On his homestead plot the member may have his
house,sa cow, poultry, and limited numbers of other small
livestock.
These cooperatives will-if successful--constitute Government's primary tool
for organizing and developing the productive resources both in the agricul-
tural sector as a whole, and particularly in the newly established settlements
in the Juba-Shebelli area. However, in the immediate future Government will
be required to provide them with significant financial and technical assist-
ance if they are to attain their full potential.
II. TEIE DROUGHT
2.01      The drought of 1973-1974 had immediate and wide-ranging consequences
for almost all the Somali people (Appendix 1). The drought itself was the
product of any number of factors, both climatic and human, which magnified the
short term effects of the failure of successive rains and which may have
resulted in a long term change in the ecological balance of the regions. The
amount of rainfall has been decreasing over the past several years, and has
been very unevenly distributed in both space and time. U.N. studies of the
Sahelean drought concluded that on the basis of meteorological observations,
it is difficult to deduce specific conclusions concerning a general climatic
trend in Africa. 1/ What is obvious, however, is that there has been a recurrent
pattern of dry periods over the past fifty years, with drought conditions being
noted on average every four years. Unfortunately, the present drought has been
very different from the previous ones both in territoral coverage and duration.
Most of the previous droughts were either confined to specific regions or
1/   Information received from the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program in Rome,
March 1975.



-4-
lasted only one seasont; the present drought covered most regions of Somalia
(as well as parts of neighboring countries) and extended over several
crop seasons.
Effects of the Drought
2.02      The immediate effects of the drought have been obvious - the devas-
tation of the livestock herds, the almost complete deterioration of the ranges,
the failure of water sources with consequent crop failures, and not least of
all the destitution of a large part of the Somali population. Livestock
losses are difficult to calculate, but it is estimated that as a result of
the drought about 30% of the cattle, 40%. of the sheep and goats and 20Z of
the camels died over a two-year period. These animal losses also entail losses
in current production of milk and meat, the basic staple foods of the nomadic
peoples.  Due to the failure of at least two successive crop seasons since
1973, there has also been a sharp decline in the total production of cereals,
making it necessary for Government to import substantial volumes of foodstuffs;
as these increased imports had a serious effect on the country's balance of
trade, Government was forced to introduce import restrictions on certain
items and on the global volume of all goods.
2.03      The drought has also had a significant effect on the distribution of
the population within the country, as there was understandably a substantial
exodus of nomadic livestock owners from the affected areas. As these nomads
began to pour into the towns in search of water and food, Government undertook
to set up relief centers as a means of coordinating assistance for them; by
May of 1975 a total of 245,000 people were being cared for in 20 relief centers
scattered throughout the country. The National Relief Committee worked quickly
and effectively in mobilizing both domestic and international assistance and
in coordinating the distribution of goods and services. With the advent of the
spring rains, however, a moderate exodus from the camps began, as the nomads
undertook to return to the ranges and begin anew the process of building up
their herds. Government at the same time decided to close down the relief centers
as quickly as possible by relocating up-So 120,000 nomads  on a voluntary basis
and providing them with a new life style which might offer them a more secure
future. These people were established in three agricultural settlements bet-
-ween the Juba and Shebelli Rivers, as well as in several fishing communities
along the coast.
2.04      The major focus of the settlement effort has been the establishment
of the three agricultural coimnunities in the Juba/Shebelli area (Appendix 2).
The largest of these - Dujuma - is located on the Juba River in an area of
fairly high agricultural potential and is designed to absorb up to 50,000
persons. The other two sites - Sablale and Kurtum Warey - are located some
30 km apart along the Shebelli River, and are designed to include some 30,000
persons each. The settlements were established with the same precision which
had characterized the relief center operations.  About 105,000 nomads were
transported by air and by truck from the relief centers to the agricultural



settlement sites 1/; most carried with them their traditional huts, and what-
ever personal belongs they had left. These huts were then reassembled in
carefully designed groupings at specific locations chosen by the settlement
authorities. Some make-shift accommodations were also constructed out of
local materials for those who had no shelter of their own. Food and medical
facilities were immediately made available to all families, and sanitation
and health services provided. Teachers who had been working in the relief
centers accompanied the settlers and education classes were continued without
interruption. The people in the settlements exhibit a high degree of enthu-
siasm and seem to have achieved a remarkable accomodation to an entirely
different life style.
2.05      The rate of physical development of the three settlements has been
astonishing. Since August 1975 when the last of the settlers were brought in,
a comprehensive administrative and human effort has succeeded in transforming
these sites into agriculturally oriented communities. The areas have been
surveyed, planned, and demarcated; the first fields have been cleared, ploughed,
disced, levelled and planted. Irrigation works have been constructed, and
arrangements made for transport of water by gravitational flow and pumping
when necessary. The physical development at each settlement has varied accord-
ing to the difficulty of the terrain and the size of the available labor pool;
the progress achieved in each settlement as of November 1975 is detailed in
Appendix 2.
2.06      Government plans to develop the settlements as rapidly as is possi-
ble given the existing financial and equipment constraints. The financial
constraint is particularly important, as it is- costing Government about US$1.5
million per month to provide food, clothing, health care and other necessities
to the almost 120X000 persons now in the settlement areas. It is absolutely
cruci.al and of the utmost urgency that the settlements be transformed into
productive self-sufficient entities as rapidly as possible. Development in
the settlements can be achieved at the expense of other programs for a
limited period, but Government is fast approaching the time when its priori-
ties will have to be given careful reconsideration. The settlements have
also had a direct effect on physical development in other areas. In order
to provide sufficient equipment for the massive land clearing needed, Govern
ment diverted almost all the heavy equipment available in the country to the
settlement program; this means that some other projects are at a virtual
standstill due to a lack of tractors, bulldozers and attachments. A massive
infusion of new equipment will be necessary to replace much of the worn-out
machinery now being used (some of the items are over 18 years old), and to
allow other equipment to be returned to the projects from which they had been
temporarily diverted.
1/   The remaining 15,000 persons were settled in various fishing communities
along the coast.



-6-
2.07      Over an eight year period Government plans to invest some US$228
million in the development of the three settlements. At the end of this
period, the composition of the settlements would be approximately as below:
Dujuma   Sablale   Kurtum Warev   Total
Total area under crops (ha)   30,000   18,000        18,000           66,000
No. of Persons                  50,000   30,000      30,000          110,000
No. of Families (houses)        10,000    6,000       6,000          22,000
Roads (km)                          16        30          26              62
Airports                             1         1           -               2
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The proposed Project would support the development of emergency
rainfed food production on 15,000 ha within the three settlements. It would
form part of an overall agricultural development program supported by IDA, the
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development (Arab Fund), and the African
Development Fund. The Arab Fund would provide support for the development of
15,000 ha of irrigated cultivation, and the African Development Fund would
assist in the establishment of 3 hospitals for the settlement populations;
these projects have been prepared separately by the respective donors, but
would be implemented along with the proposed Project as part of an integrated
program. The rainfed and irrigated agricultural development projects would
be particularly interdependent, as they would to some degree share a corcon
pool of machinery, technical assistance and personnel. For this reason the
two projects were prepared in close coordination and have been tailored so
as to ensure opti-.al utilization of available resources. During the three
year implementation period, the cropping program would concentrate on the
production of corn and sorghum. This type of production would be particularly
appropriate ln the short-term in view of the over-riding need to achieve
sufficient food production to meet the needs of the people now living in the
settlements. However, at a later stage when experience has been gained with
rainfed cult'vation in the Project area, it is expected that alternative crop-
ping programs would be developed, and that consideration would be given at
that time to the possibility of alternative land utilization schemes (including
the integration of livestock) and to the desirability of soil conservation and!
or improvement programs.  Provision has been included for Project monitor4ng
and evaluation and for the preparation of a Juba-Shebelli inter-riverine area
agricultural development study; the latter would then form the basis for the
preparation of future projects within the agricultural sector.
3.02      The Project would develop 9,000 ha of rainfed cultivation in Dujur-a
and 3,000 each in Sablale and Kurtum Warey over a tlhree-year period. Specifi-
cally, the Project would include provision for:



- 7 -
(a)  2.5 crawlers for bush clearing on 15,000 ha;
(b)  100 tractors with attac_hmets to be used for ploughing
and cultivation as well as for transport within the
settlements;
(c)  8 four-wheel drive vehicles;
(d)  6 mobile workshops and 3 office buildings;
(e)  local staff salaries;
(f)  technical assistance; and
(g)  Project monitoring and evaluation and future project
preparation.
Overall responsibility for the direction and coordination of the Project
would be assumed by an autonomous agency under the supervision of the National
Rehabilitation Coamittee.
B. Detailed Features
Bush Clearing
3.03      Bush clearing would be carried out on 15,000 ha in the three settle-
ments - 9,000 ha in Dujuma and 3,000 ha each in Sablale and Kurtum Warey.
Perhaps one-third of the bush in Dujuima would be heavy forest cover necessitat-
ing the use of heavier equipment and a higher manual labor component, while
the remainder would be medium or light bush. The required investments would
therefore include five 200 to 220 hp crawlers with rippers, and twenty 140 to
160 hp crawlers; additional items would include ancillary equipment, spares
and operating costs over three years. The assumptions on which these require-
ments were based are given in Appendix 4, pages 1-3. The bush clearing would
be carried out over a three-year period, with approximately one-third of the
total area cleared in each year.
Agricultural Machinery
3.04      Two types of wheel tractors would be provided to carry out the
ploughing and cultivation of the 15,000 ha; these would include 20 tractors
of 90 to 100 hp and 80 tractors of 60 to 70 hp. The smaller tractors would
also be used for transport during that time they were not required in the
fields. The assumptions on which the tractor requirements are based are given
in Appendix 4, pages 3-5.  The projections are based on two crop seasons per
year, with the only crops grown being corn and sorghum; thus 10,000 ha would
be planted in year 1, 20,000 ha in year 2 and 30,000 ha in year.3. A lump



-8-
sum equal to 20% of the tractor cost was included for the purchase of tractor
attachments including ploughs, harrows, toolbars, furrowmakers, etc. Other
investments would include a 15% allowance for spare parts, 50 trailers (1
for each 2 tractors) handtools, and fifty stationary threshers. 1/ Operating
costs would be supported for the three-year development period. A lump sum
of US$10 per ha was allowed for the purchase of seed for start-up production,
and it was assumed that the seed would be purchased locally.
Mobile Workshops
3.05      Six mobile workshops would be provided to help service the vehicles,
equipment and agricultural machinery being provided for the settlements under
the overall development program. Two mobile units would be set up in each of
the settlements; these would operate out of stationary workshops already
established by ONAT, 2/ which would continue to be responsible for their over-
all operation. The mobile units would be under the direct control of a master
mechanic to be provided under technical assistance (para 3.07).
Office Buildings and Vehicles
3.06      A central office building would be established in each of the three
settlements; these would be simple structures, possibly pre-fabricated.
A limited amount of office equipment and furnishings would also be provided
(para. 3.09). Eight four-wheel drive vehicles would be provided for the
use of Project administrative staff (para 3.08), along with the required
spares and allowance for operating expenditures.
Technical Assistance
3.07      The overall settlement program would require a certain amount of
technical assistance in order to ensure that the crop development programs
are properly planned and implemented and to allow for the training of local
staff. It is expected that this assistance would be provided by a single
consulting firm, and that several of the advisors would be utilized jointly
by the irrigated crop development project to be financed by the Arab Fund
(para 3.01) and by the rainfed crop development project to be supported by
IDA. Therefore, the total amount of technical assistance required has been
calcu'lated on a global basis, and for costing purposes the staff time alloca-
ted between the two projects on the basis of their anticipated requirements
(Appendix 3, Table 4). A total of 34 man-years wqould be required, of which
some 12 man-years would be utilized by the proposed Project; the technical
staff required would include:
1/   It should be noted that the purchase of combines was thought unnecessary
in view of the desire to make the operations as labor intensive as
possible.
2/   National Agricultural Machine Hiring Agency.



-9-
1    Dryland Agronomist              3 years
1    Master Mechanic                 3 years
l    Financial Advisor               3 years
I    Procurement Officer             3 years
Terms of reference for the required staff for the technical assistance compo-
.>ent are given in Appendix 6.
Local Staff Salaries
*.08      A large number of local staff would be required for the planning,
administration and implementation of the settlement program. As Government
requested that the management of both the rainfed and irrigated production
should be under a joint authority (para 4.01), the local staff requirements
vere estimated on an overall basis, and then a rough allocation nade between
the two projects.  A total of 1,085 staff would be required to carry out the
complete program at full development (year 3); these are shown in Appendix 3,
Table 5. A nucleus of 64 administrative and financial staff would be station-
ed in Mogadiscio; these would include a Settlement Managing Director and
Deputy Director, Personnel, Legal and Administrative Officers, an Evaluation
Unit, an Accounting Unit and various supporting staff. In addition, 1,021
staff would be required within the settlements themselves (571 in Dujuma and
225 each in Sablale and Kurtum Warey); these staff would include a Settlement
Manager and a Deputy Manager, administrative and finance staff, mechanics,
health and education officers, and farm management personnel (e.g. Farm Mana-
gers, Agronomists, Horticulturalists, Livestock Officers, and Production
Supervisors). Once the total cost of all local staff (excluding those staff
related specifically to the irrigated development) wqas estimated, a rough
apportionment of staff costs was made on. the basis of the relative value (cif
settlement price) of the crop production from the two projects. Thus approxi-
mately 15% of the staff costs were attributed to the proposed IDA Project, and
the remainder to the irrigated crop development project supported by the Arab
Fund; this allocation of costs was considered realistic in view of, among
other things, the fact that the irrigated development would require a substan-
tially higher labor and management input. Finally, although the number of
persons required for the settlement program is quite large, it must be noted
that a substantial percentage of these staff are already in post, and Govern-
ment has already rmade plans for the assignment of the remaining staff when
they are needed. As noted below (para 3.12) , Government is now and will con-
tinue to be completely responsible for the payment of local staff salaries.



- 10 -
Sundries
3 09      Provision would also be made under the Project for office equipment
(para3 .06), and for the purchase of mobile fuel and water tanks.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation and Future Project Preparation
3.10      An important aspect of the settlement program would be the continu-
ous monitoring and evaluation of the proposed projects. To this end, an
Evaluation and Monitoring Unit separated from the day-to-day activities of the
projects is proposed. The Unit would concern itself with the analysis of
Project costs, benefits, changes in socio-economic patterns, etc. Preparation
of future projects in the Juba-Shebelli inter-riverine area would include: (i)_
review and updating of the physical resources data contained in past studies;
(ii) the preparation of a land use map combining soil classification,-.c.rop
ecology, climatic data and the status of water availability including under-
ground water supplies to be used as a base map for future development; and (iii)
the formulation of an agricultural development plan or plans with objectives
in the medium and long term including crops, livestock, forestry, watershed
conservation, agro-industries and agricultural infrastructure. This work
would take into account data obtained from ongoing projects and would form
the basis for identification of future projects and their preparation for
international financing. Technical assistance for Project monitoring and
evaluation would be financed by the Association; the study to be undertaken
by Somalia for future projects in the Juba-Shebelli inter-riverine area would
be financed by the Arab Fund. The terms of reference and appointment of
consultants for such studies would be mutually agreed upon between the Arab
Fund and the Association. The Arab Fund and the Association would closely
cooperate in the supervision of the consultants and the review of the studies
prepared by the consultants.
C.  Project Costs (Apoendix 3)
3.11      Total Project cost is estimated at So.Sh 68.3 million (US$10.8
million), of which So.Sh 50.5 million (US$8.0 million) or about 74Z would
represent foreign e:xchange requirements. Total Project costs are detailed
below:



- 11 -
Foreig
Local       Foreign           Total        Local       Foreign          Total       Exchange
(So.Sh.'000)                                 (US'OOO)7
Bush C1 earin&
CrawLers                   2,960      11.840            14,800          470         1,880         2,350   ;       80
Equi:nent                     80         7.40              820           13           117           130           90
Spares                       220       1,990             2.210           35           315           350           90
Operating Cost             1.650       4.020             5.670          262           638           900           70
Sub-total             4.910      18.590           23.500           780         2.950         3.730          79
Aaritcultural Machinery
820      6,110             6,903          130            970         1,100          90
cmrahents                   860       3,200             4,060          137            508           645          79
Fa' "-oo w013 s670                    970            1,640           106           154           260          59
Spar4s                       1la         930             1,040           17           148           165          90
Operaring Cost             2.755       6.430             9.185          437         1.021         1.458          70
Sub-total             5.215      17.540           22.855          827          2.80t         3.628          78
~iobile                       95         850               945           IS           135           150           90
Sub-total.               95         850              945            15           135           150          90
Of Stce BuiI.dint                345         345              690            55           55            110          50
Sub-total               345         345              690            55           55            110          50
Vehicles
Four Wheel Drive             200         300               500           32           43             80          60
Spares                        1.          63                75            2           10             12          90
Operating Cost               228         227               455           36           36             72          50
Sub-total               440         590            1.030           70            94            164     7   57
'echnical Assistance             -        3.780             3.780           -           600             600         100
Sub-total             _          3.780             3.780           -           600             600         1t00
.Iaries
Overheads                    365         -                 365           58           _               58
On Settlements             2,507         -               2.507          398           -             398
Sub-tocal             2.372                        2.872          456            -             456       -
S'.Lndries                      113          360              473           18            57             75          76
Sab-total.              113         360              473            18           57             75          76
TOTAL                13.990     42.155            56.145        2.221        6.692           8.913          75
Continscencies
Physical Contingencies   1,420         3,000            4,420           226          476            702          68
Price Contingencies        2.414       5.312            7.726           394          832          1.226          69
Sub-total             3.334      8.312            12.146          620        1,308           1.928          68
GRAND TOTAL         17.824      50.467            68,291        2.841        8.00a          10,841          74
Fabruary 4, 1976.



- 12 -
Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing in November 1975, and the basic
assumptions used in this computation are given in Appendix 4. A physical contin-
gency of 5% on crawlers, tractors and vehicles and 10% on all other items
has been included. In addition, overall price contingencies of about 14% have
been included on all investment costs to allow for expected increases in foreign
and local costs; these are equivalent to a price contingency of 10% in year
one and 8%. in each of the two subsequent years. On average a cumulative price
contingency of 10%, has been assumed for all operating costs excluding salaries.
Price contingencies for machinery, equipment and vehicles are based on
suggested IDA guidelines, and those for other items on the estimated level of
price increases for Project items in Somalia. In calculating costs, efforts
were made to make the Project as labor intensive as possible, taking into
consideration the limitations imposed by the type of work to be done, seasonal
work variability, the duration of the investment period etc. Import taxes
and duties on Project goods are estimated at So.Sh 6.3 million (US$1.0 million)
and have been included. This amount includes about So.Sh 3.0 million
(US$500,000) of taxes on fuel.
D. Accounts and Audit
3.12      All Government institutions are required to have their accounts
audited by the Magistrate of Accounts, and this Department would assume
responsibility for the auditing of Project accounts. The consolidated accounts
for the Project would be audited within six months of the end of each fiscal
year and submitted to the financing agencies. Government would have flexibil-
ity in the transfer of funds within broad categories and from one category to
another, but the approval of the financing agencies would be necessary before
such transfers could be carried out, Similar arrangements utilized under the
Somalia Trans-Juba Livestock Development Project and other IDA projects have
proven to be acceptable.
E. Supervision
3.13      Available local qualified manpower and the public administration
in Somalia have limited spare capacity, and the proposed Project, together
with other drought related programs, would impose additional and heavy bur-
dens upon them. Consequently it is important that Project supervision ar-
rangements should be adopted which would provide the Government with a high
degree of technical assistance; in each instance the scope and content of the
supervision missions should be adapted to the specific needs of the Project.
Supervision missions would concern themselves with providing Government with
timely and practical assistance in the following critical fields:



- 13 -
(a) development of the institutions needed for Project
implementation;
(b) establishment of financial and operational procedures;
(c) recruitment of staff;
(d) procurement and disbursement;
(e) establishment and evaluation of adequate Project
related accounts;
(f) initiation of follow-up studies; and
(g) coordination with other aid donors including the
presentation of regular information about Project
programs.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      Overall responsibility for the direction and coordination of the
settlements would be assumed by the National Rehabilitation Committee of the
Supreme Revolutionary Council. The Committee would operate through a Settle-
ment Development Agency. The Settlement Development Agency would be based
in Mogadiscio, and would have full operational authority over all development
programs being carried out within the three settlements. It would thus have
responsibility for the rainfed crop program supported by IDA under the pro-
posed Project, as well as the irrigated crop program to be supported by the
Arab Fund, and the hospital construction to be supported by the African
Development Fund.
4.02      The three settlements would be under the direct authority of a
Managing Director, who along with certain other administrative staff (per-
sonnel, Lego%, accounting, etc.) would be located in Mogadiscio. A total of
some 64 staff would be required for this central unit - 15 of whom would be
professional staff, 30 of whom would have intermediate level qualifications,
and the remainder of whom would be lower level support staff (Appendix 3,
Table 5). In addition to these central staff, a large number of staff would
be required in the settlements themselves (571 in Dujuma and 225 each in
Sablale aad Kurtum Warey).  Each settlement would be under the day-to-day
control of a Settlement Manager, who together with a Deputy Manager would
be responsible for all Project activities. The manager would operate through
three field divisions - administration, services and production. The latter
division would be the largest, and would itself be divided into three branches:
(a) a specialist branch including agronomists, horticulturalists, livestock
officers etc; (b) a field operations branch providing such services as land
preparation, irrigation, and irrigated and rainfed crop protection; and (c)



- 14 -
a r,.uction branch composed of field operatorslextension agents dealing with
dAy-to-day crop development activities. The above staffing plan is detailed
in an accompanying chart (World Bank 15484). These staff would serve both the
rainfed and the irrigated crop development projects; costs have been allocated
between the two projects on the basis of the relative value of the expected
production from each project - i.e. 85% of total staff costs (excluding irrigation
related staff) were allocated to the irrizated cron oroject ard 15? to toe
rainfed (IDA) project.
Technical Services (Appendix 6)
4.03      Technical assistance would be required to assist Somali personnel
in organizing agricultural production in the three settlements.
As it is expected that this assistance would be provided by a single firm,
and as some of the technical consultants would be shared by the two projects,
the total assistance requested by both projects was estimated on a global
basis, and staff time then apportioned between each.  A total of 11 inter-
nationally recruited specialists for a total of 31 man-years would be required
over a three-year period, as well as 3 man-years for unspecified consult-
ancies. In addition, a lump sum would be provided for six man-years of
training. Training would be given to selected staff working in the settlements
by means of short practical courses and visits to other agricultural develop-
ment projects either in Somalia or abroad. As the technical services compo-
nent is considered essential for the successful start of the Project, the firm
of consultants would be selected and the procurement advisor would be in post
within four months of the signing of the credit agrement.
organization of Production
4.04      During the initial years while the settlements are being developed,
the major emphasis would be on land clearing and preparation, crop production,
and the process of adapting the nomadic pastoralists to a settled agricul-
tural existence. The realization of crop production targets is essential in
the short-term; large quantities of food grains will be needed to feed the
people living in the area, and the import of these grains now constitutes
a serious drain on the foreign exchange resources of the Somali Government.
For the present, therefore, the cropping program would be carried out on a
centralized and consolidated basis. This would enable the settlement managers
to train former nomadic livestock-owners to become settled agriculturalists,
and such an arrangement would also make the best possible use of equipment,
labor and other limited resources. At a later stage, Government will most
likely consider a number of options as to the organization of the crop areas.
One alternative for the rainfed crop area which has been mentioned by Govern-
ment is that the area should be divided into plots of about 400 ha, which would
then be cooperativelY cultivated by groups of 100 families. Division on this
scale would allow a reasonably intensive supervision - an essential factor
until such a time as the new settlers gain the necassary experience in agricul-
tural tet*uques. If this approach were to prcve feasible, the settlement



- 15 -
managers might then wish to consider pilot schemes involving other types of
cooperative production. In any case, whatever production system should be
adopted, the settlement management would for a long time be required to provide
common services and inputs such as land preparation, improved seed, fertilizer,
crop protection chemicals, storage, marketing and extension services. The farmers
would perform most of the other production operations including seeding, spraying,
harvesting etc.
V. PRODUCTION AND PRICES
A. Production
5.01      The proposed Project would provide for interim foodcrop production
under rainfed conditions on some 15,000 ha of previously unutilized agricul-
tural land in the settlement areas. Given the over-riding need to produce
food for the settlers now living in the area, Project production would be
limited to corn and sorghum, as these two crops appear to offer the most
promising prospects for start-up production under rainfed conditions. It is
recognized that the viability of production under the specific conditions
prevailing in the Project area hAs not been extensively studied, but experi-
ence with these crops under similar conditions elsewhere in Somalia indicates
that with proper supervision, the cropping program should not be subject to
undue risk. Yield estimation is under these circumstances extremely diffi-
cult, particularly as standards of land management are expected to vary widely.
However, based on data from the UNDP Water Control and Management Report of
1969, suitably amended by experimental results from the Afgoi Research Station,
it was estimated that for two crop seasons per year, yields of 750 kg/ha for
corn and 550 kg/ha for sorghum should be able to be achieved within the first
two seasons. This assumption is based also on the expectation that local,
highly drought resistant varieties would be used. It was felt that the use
of higher yielding varieties under the conditions expected in the foreseeable
future would be premature and subject to an unacceptable degree of risk. The
full potential of expensive higher yielding varieties can only be achieved
through adoption of improved cultural practices and greater use of inputs
such as fertilizers, pesticides and insecticides, combined with a reasonably
reliable water availability during the vegetation period. As the new settlers
are totally inexperienced in crop cultivation, and as the rainfall in the
area is at best highly erratic, any experimentation with improved varieties
would pose a real threat of crop failures.
5.02      It is expected that over the three year Project period, 60% of the
land would be devoted to sorghum and 40% to corn production.  Th:aL estmAt9A.,.
Project production in year 4 (when full development would be achieved) would
~l~e abou~t5,00u tons o  isorghum 'an43 W      -fo         suming that  about
5% of the total production would be needed forseedand 20% would be lost
through wastage during storage and by damage caused by various grain eating
birds (para 5.04), the balance would provide food for about 36,000 people



- 16 -
(assuming that each person would consume about 200 kg annually; this is equal
to about 1 ton of grain per family per year). This would satisfy about 60%
to 70Z of the daily calorie requirements of these people.  The  otl a ma nf
praislJlam Da.rsvrL4 would be abut US$750,000 or about US$50 per hectare.
Assuming that an area of about 4 ' La&2oiu    i -eessary to support a family
of 5 persons, the following results would be achieved for a family cultivating
under rainfed conditions:
(a)  Employment:  2 able-bodied persons in a family would be employed
for 220 man-days per annum. /1
(b)  Production of sorghum and corn:  Year 4    2,500 kg
(c) Surplus above subsistence of the
family:                         Year 4    1,500 kg
(d) Value of production:
Out of which
Total         for subsistence    marketed
-US$-              -        US$ -
Year 4           200                80               120
5.03      it must be recognized that the Project was generated as a response
to the emergency conditions brought about by the recent drought, and that it
was to a large extent shaped by the need to ensure rapid foodcrop production.
Consequently, given the lack of experience with cultivation in the Project
area, the absence of a reliable data base, the marginal rainfall, and the
need to train the settlers in agricultural techniques, it is not possible
at this stage to extrapolate the cropping pattern postulated for the first
three years much beyond this initial "trial" or "experimental" period.
Continual Project monitoring and evaluation (para 3.10) would enable manage-
ment to benefit immediately from the experience gained and, where desirable,
/1                                    Handays/ha
Planting                         5
Weeding                         20
Harvesting                      15
Sundries                        15
Total         55 x 4 ha - 220 mandays
It was considered advisable to make the Project as labor intensive as possible.
The amount of labor which was projected per ha however is somewhat higher
than would be needed if the settlers were acquainted with the type of work
to be done.



- 17 -
to experiment with alternative crop strategies. It is expected therefore
that by year 4 (when the anticipated output from the irrigated component would
alleviate the need for sustained foodcrop production), the Project management
would begin to experiment with alternative crops, and to consider the
possibility of integrating livestock with the rainfed production. Once the
development program is well underway, a crop diversification and/or land use
program could be drawn up for each settlement; this program would take into
consideration soil characteristics, water availability, agronomic factors,
soil conservation problems, as well as the needs and capabilities of the
settlers then'selves. Such a totally flexible approach would allow an imme-
diate response to the exi zency of the existing situation, while at the same
time pruv:dirg a firm organizational and experimental base from which future
developzunv could build.
Control   ,;-ain Eatina  i4rds
,.04      D}uY? to an absence of adequate data and of a feasible control program,
i.t wac  Ot considered advisable to include a bird control component in the
proposed Project. iT is evident, however, that at some stage of the settle-
ment program Goverum>ent will have to give serious consideration to means of
contro' ling quelea-quelea and other grain eating birds; the potential seri-
ousness of this problem can be judged by the fact that in other parts of
Somalia damage from these birds has resulted in the loss of up to 5% of the
total crop. Research in bird control is now being carried out by UNDP/SF
regional study now underway in Somalia; preliminary trials have been completed,
and studies have been undertaken to evaluate their feasibility on a larger
scale. Although no firm results are yet available, the study expects to
present conclusive recommendation within two to three years.
Grain Storage
5.05      Grain losses from spoilage during storage may be as high as 20% in
some cases, and every effort must therefore be made to reduce losses and to
prevent deterioration. As a general rule, before storage the grain should
be dried to an app::opriate moisture content (10% - 14%) and sprayed with
insecticide. No provision for grain storage has been included in the pro-
posed Project, as the African Development Fund (ADF) has agreed to discuss
with Government the possibility of financing storage facilities within the
three settlements. If financing is not available from the ADF, Government
should be prepared to develop alternative sources of financing, as permanent
storage facilities will be required within five to six years. In the interim,
however, some type of temporary storage should prove adequate.
B. Prices
5.06      The 1975 import settlement parity price for sorghum has been uti-
lized in Project economic calculations, and this same price has also been
used for corn. A tentative breakdown of this given below:



- 18 -
US$ Per Metric Ton
Grain Sorghum (US No. 2 Milo, Yellow, fob Gulf Ports)            115 /1
Gulf to Kisimayu or Mogadiscio - Ocean Freight                    42 72
Sub-total:  price cif Kisimayu or Mogadiscio               157
Wharfage at 1% of US$157                                           2
Handling at US$1 per ton                                           1
Cost of transport from Kisimayu or Mogadiscio to
the settlements, US$20 per tou /3                               20
Cost of sorghum in sack cif in one of the three
settlements:                                             180
/1   Source:  IBRD Commodity Forecasts - Commodities and Export
Projections Division, Economic Analysis and Projections Department -
Estimate of Actual Price for 1975.
/2   Estimate - UNDP Mogadiscio - World Food Program.
/3   Estimate - ONAT Mogadiscio.
The import parity price cif settlement for corn and sorghum would therefore
be as follows:
Local            -           Import Price
Commodity  Farmgate Price   cif Mogadiscio or Kisimayu    cif Settlements
US$ per metric ton -
Sorghum         80                         157                        180
Corn            80                         157                        180
It can be seen that there is a considerable disparity between the farmgate
price and the -cif settlement price.
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Project would be an integral part of Government's comprehensive
settlement program in the Juba-Shebelli area. It would concentrate on the
development of start-up production under rainfed conditions on some 15,000 ha
within the three settlements. It would be a low cost and technically simple
intervention that would provide a sound base for the later intensification of



- 19 -
production on the same area. The cost per ha would be about US$650, out of
which some US$250 would be spent on bush clearing. Total Project production
would be about 9,500 tons of sorghum in year 4, which would provide the
basic food requirements of some 7,200 families or about 36,000 persons. A
total of 150 mandays of labor annually would be provided for some 5,400
laborers. Government would achieve substantial savings from the Project, as
the incremental production would be used to offset imports of sorghum and
xaize which would otherwise be necessary.
6.02      The Project would have several unquantifiable benefits, the most
important of which would be the transformation of the nomadic families ren-
dered destitute by the drought into productive agriculturalists. Such a
transformation would not only assure these families a more secure livelihood,
but would also facilitate their absorption into the mainstream of Somali
society; this would in turn facilitate their inclusion in Government literacy,
health and employment programs - opportunities which prior to the drought were
largely unavailable to them. These new sources of production will enable
Government to ensure a more reliable supply of food for consumption throughout
the country, and eventually will allow Government to accumulate reserves as a
hedge against partial crop failures brought about by future droughts. Finally,
it should be noted that the creation of three relatively large settlements -
fujuma will in fact become the third largest population center in the country
- will bring about many changes in the economic and cultural life of a large
area of the country. While most of these changes will be positive, Govern-
ment will also have to begin to consider the many problems which will inevi-
tably arise in the new communities (e.g. assurance of an adequate fuel supply,
protection of water sources, urban health problems, etc); these problems must
be recognized and dealt with at an early stage in order to permit their suc-
cessful resolution.
6.03      One substantial risk facing the Project would be below average
or badly distributed rainfall; available estimates indicate that there is a
20% chance of a total or partial crop failure in any given year. However,
this possibility has been fully taken into account in the estimation of
Project yields. Another potential risk - the probability of price decreases
for corn and sorghum - was not taken into consideration as the available price
forecasts indicate such a possibility is most improbable.



APPENDIX 1
Page I
SOMALIA
DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SHEBELLI AREA EMERGENCY SETTLmMENT SCHEXE
The Drought
Historical Note
1.        The drought which affected large parts of Somalia in 1972-1974 was
not a new phenomenon; although no systematic evidence related to earlier drought
periods is available, many of the people remember well the recurring droughts of
the last 50 years. In 1918 there was an exceptional drought, some details about
which can be determined by a study of the records of the limited relief measures
carried out in the North. Serious droughts occurred again in 1923, 1924
and in 1927/28. The latter seems to have been one of the worst droughts on
record, as an estimated 80% of the country's sheep and goats were lost at
that time 1/; about 15,000 persons were given shelter in one relief center,
which remained open until 1930. In 1933/1934 and again in 1951/52 there were
other serious droughts. Numerous deaths, chiefly among children, were reported.
Somalia also suffered droughts in 1956, 1959, 1963 and 1970, in near 3-year
cycles 2/.
-  A.- The Drought Situation
2.        The drought in Somalia was closely related to the recent drought in
Eastern Ethiopia, as both areas fall within the same ecological zone in the
eastern tip of the continent, the Horn of Africa. The most seriously affected
part of Somalia was the northeastern area covering the regions of Tugdeer,
Sanaag, Nugal and Bari, and extending southward through the regions of Mudug
and Galgudud. There failure of the rains in two successive seasons provided
the catalyst for the events which followed. The rainfall in those areas
normally averages from 100 mm to 500 mm with a very high degree of local vari-
ability and low reliability, but the results in these two seasons were excep-
tionally disappointing.
1/   Somalia New Agency (SON'NA).
2/   The Somalia Drought, International African Institute:  London,
February 1975.



A-PPENDIX 1
Page 2
3.        Water resources in the drought stricken areas are limited to the
seasonal rivers (tugs) which flow intermittently across the plains after rain,
and the occasional sites where underground drainage provides adequate quan-
tities of fresh water from dug wells. The longest seasonal river is Tugdeer,
which runs from the North West region to the eastern coast of Nugal region;
this and other larger tugs represent one of the most valuable water resources
for the nomadic as well as the settled agricultural population, and the pro-
longed drought seriously restricted the available flows. Some hand-dug open
holes which might otherwise have provided a supplemental water source also
dried out. There are a few natural springs in the range areas, but these are
not properly utilized. Surface rainwater reservoirs, normally the main water
sources for the nomads and their animals, were exhausted in the drought.
4.        Indications of the severity of the drought situation emerged in the
early days of the Gu 1/ season in 1974. The Gu season production was much
below expectation, totalling about 40% of the average crop yield in normal
years. Inadequate rainfall was the main cause of this crop failure, and the
situation provided an early warning of the serious impact of the drought to
come. Preparation for the Der 2/ season planting went on as usual, but the
rainfall needed for crop growth in October again proved disappointing. The
harvest was barely enough to meet seed requirements for Cu season in 1975, and
the season was a complete failure in regard to food production. At the same
time the available stock of staple foods (maize and sorghum) started to be
depleted rapidly as a result of an increased reliance on them (estimated at
15,000 tons per month) to satisfy consumption demands.
5.        In addition to its serious effect on crop production, the drought
also had a disastrous effect on the rangeland areas. The effects of the
drought were heightened by the fact that the rangelands have suffered from
an almost continuous deterioration in the past thirty to fifty years. This
deterioration can be attributed partly to the introduction of water reser-
voirs at various locations on the range without a simultaneous effort to
achieve a systematic balance between the carrying capacity of the ranges and
the availability of water in a particulai area. These increased water
supplies allowed an expansion of the herds beyond the optimal level which
-could be supported by the available feed reserves. The build-up of stock
numbers thus threatened the already precarious balance between livestock and
the environment in which they lived. The increase in herd numbers was also
facilitated by the expanded veterinary services which became available to
the nomadic herdsmen; the reduction of herd losses put additional pressure
on the already deteriorating range resources.
1/   Rainy season from April to July.
21   Rainy season from September to December.



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
6.        In an effort to combat the effects of this continued deterioration,
the development plan of 1968-1970 emphazised the importance of range use
controls. During this time seasonal grazing plans were first introduced,
although they were able to achieve little in the way of arresting the over-
all decline of the ranges. Further efforts were outlined in the plan for
1974-1978, which cited the livestock industry as one of the mainstays of the
Somali economy. The plan recognized that the problem of water supply is
intricately related to the preservation of the whole ecological system, and
that the balancing of the various factors is of crucial importance. It noted
that Government intervention must be carefully reviewed, and all programs
affecting the ranges completely synchronized. The attention given to the
livestock sector makes clear that Government has been well aware of the
possibility of the gradual decimation of the country's livestock herds as a
result of cyclically recurrent droughts, but unfortunately little real prog-
ress has been made thus far in mitigating the effects of these natural
disasters.
B. Effects of the Drought
7.        The drought has had an immediate and catastrophic effect on the
largely nomadic population of the drought stricken areas. It is estimated
that about 80% of the population in the area is nomadic, depending almost
entirely on their livestock herds as a source of livelihood. These nomads
travel widely, crossing the border to and from the Ogaden region in Ethiopia,
moving from one place to another in search of grazing and water for their
animals; unfortunately, however, the drought has been so widespread that they
have not been able to separate themselves from its consequences. Permanent
towns in the drought area are few and far between-the major ones being
Hargeisa, Berbera, Burao, and Erigavo. The drought in due course somewhat
altered the distribution of the population, as there was a substantial exodus
from the affected areas into the larger towns; this in turn resulted in a
large increase in the numbers of unemployed, mostly in Mogadiscio.
8.        One of the most important effects of the drought was the decimation
of the livestock herds in the range areas. It is estimated that about 30%.
of all cattle, about 40% of the sheep and goats, and about 20% of the camels
died over the past two years. The following table shows the estimated loss
of livestock caused by the drought 1/.
1/   Estimate of the Ministry of Interior.



APPEN DIX 1
Page 4
Sheep and
Region          Cattle         Goats         Camels                Value
'000 head                       (million So.Sh.)
Sanaag               80            700             60                   200
Tugdeer             100          1,500             110                  370
Bari                 50            700             50                   170
Nugal               100            800             80                   250
Mudug               140            700              50                  240
Galgudud            100            500             40                   170
Hiraan               70            300             40                   130
Bakool              200            400             50                   240
Gedo                160            200             40                   180
Total        1,000          5,800            520                 1,950
Cases of families who lost all their herd or flocks were not unusual. Animal
losses also entailed losses in current production of milk and meat, the basic
food of the ncmadic population. It should be noted here that estimates of
drought related livestock losses are at best tentative. However, between
February 5 and 21, 1975 the first comprehensive Census of Population and
Livestock in Somalia was performed with UNFPA 1/ assistance; this census
could be a reliable source of actual livestock numbers, but thus far no
figures from the census have been released. Therefore, all figures indicating
livestock losses to date have to be treated as rough estimates and are subject
to a large degree of error.
9.        Due to the failure of two successive crop seasons, the drought
also had other widespread implications for Somalia. Most important perhaps
has been the sharp decline in the total production of cereals since the 1973
DER season. Two main consequences of this decline can be immediately noted:
(a) Government has been forced to reallocate funds set aside .for agricultural
development to relief operations; and (b) it has been obliged to import
increasingly larger amounts of foodstuffs as its own cereal reserves have
been depleted. The increased imports in turn have contributed substantially
to the worsening of the country's balance of trade. The overall trend for
the past several years is illustrated below:
1/   United Nations Fund for Population Activities.



APPENDIX 1
Page 5
(Million So.Sh.) /1
Exports         Imports        Trade Deficit
1972                   394              503               -109
1973                   358              704               -346
1974                   400            1,000               -600
1975 (forecast)        400            1,400             -1,000
/1   Source:  Central Bank of Somalia
In effort to reduce the effect of this unfavorable trend Government has
introduced import restrictions on non-essential items and imposed global
limits on the volume of all commodities imported.
10.       The drought also precipitated a reduction in exports of both meat
and live animals, which has in turn had a noticeable effect on Somalia's
balance of payments.
C. Relief Operations
11.       The drought was highlighted as a serious problem when the nomadic
livestock owners began to pour into the towns in search of food and shelter.
The first group seeking relief assistance arrived in Burao in August 1974,
and the steady stream of nomadic refugees thereafter turned into a flood.
Government began setting up relief centers during October, with the first
two being established in Tugdeer and Nugal regions. Additional centers
were later set up in Sanaag, Bari, Nudug, Galgudud, and Bokool regions. By
March twenty centers were in operation. The population of the relief centers
grew slowly at first, but by mid-January 1975 the growth rate increased
markedly; by May 1975 a total of 245,000 persons were being fed and sheltered
in the various centers (Table 1).
12.       The Government recognized at a very early stage that it would
require not only material resources but also an organization capable of
ensuring that services and supplies reached the affected population with
the absolute minimum of delay. Government thereafter moved quickly and effec-
tively in setting up the administrative structure necessary to ensure proper
care of the stricken people. The overall drought relief program was put under
the authority of the National Relief Committee (NRC) under the Chairmanship of
a Supreme Revolutionary Council (SRC) member. The NRC, headed by a Commissioner,
was established to coordinate planning and to administer various aspects of the
day-to-day relief task. Local relief committees were also set up under the
chairmanship of Regional and District Governors. Government transport resources
were used in distributing food, medicine, water and other supplies both to re-
Lief centers and to drought victims still in the bush. Beginning in early
October appeals for assistance were addressed to the United Nations, to friendly



APPENDLX 1
Page 6
governments and other governmental organizations. The National Rural Develop-
ment Campaign (including literacy classes) which had been launched independently
of the drought and well before the crisis stage was reached, was integrated
into the drought relief effort; health, literacy and general education classes
for adults and children were thus made a normal.part of the relief centers'
routine. Each center was organized under a committee composed of a teacher,
a health official, national security personnel and members elected from among
the people in the center. Radio transmissions were installed to link the
centers with the National Relief Organization headquarters in Mogadiscio.
Each center was divided into sections of 50 huts each, and then into sub-
sections of 25 huts each in order to ease problems of supervision and manage-
ment. The administrative staff at each center ranged on an average between
10 and 20 persons per 1,000 inhabitants, and most of these were drawn from
the cadre of teachers and students mobilized for the literacy campaign.
13.       In order to help meet the emergency situation, in January, 1975
Government introduced measures aimed at food ration ng.  Identity cards were
issued order to streamline food distribution according to a ration-scale.
These measures were accompanied by the tightening of general price and food
controls, by appeals to the public to volunteer assistance and to exercise
self-restraint, and by mobilization of all available resources to ease the
crisis. Also, aid received from international and other donors helped to
substantially ease the serious food situation.
14.       The relief centers were designed to provide the following basic
services:
(a) Food Distribution. The following ration-scale was recommended
by the Ministry of Health:
Item                            Adult     Child
----grams---
Rice (4 times a week)                       250        100
Sorghum/maize (3 times a week)              300       100
Powdered milk (daily)                        20        40
Dates (daily)                                30        40
Sugar (daily)                                50        25
Edible oil (daily)                           47        20
Tea (daily)                                   3          3
Meat (when available, 2 times weekly)    250           100
Survival biscuits                             4 pieces  4 pieces
The ration as recommended in the above-mentioned scale is
more than a "survival" one; however, it is doubtful whether
the full-scale was always distributed daily. Distribution
of food items (in pre-cooked form) was made by the store-
keeper in each center to groups comprising at least 25
*families, who undertook jointly the preparation and cooking
of meals. Govermment provided simple cooking facilities,
and wood was used as a fuel. In many camps it was not



APPENDIX 2
Page 7
only required m limited areas. The overall development will be very similar
to that at Dujuma; however, as there is some serious question as to the relia-
bility of water from the Shebelli in certain seasons, ouly seasonal irrigation
is planned. In general terms it would appear that irrigation would be possible
for some eight months of the year (April-December), but this capability would of
course depend on the demands made on the water supply by other irrigated
developments (e.g. banana plantatious) elsewhere along the river. In any case,
the total planned agricultural area (by year 8) is estimated at 18,000 ha, of
which some 3,000 ha are expected to be planted in the approaching crop season.
The Government hopes to eventually irrigate the entire crop area. In order to
make this possible and to reduce the water lost in the vast swamp into which
the Shebelli disappears, the staff at the settlement are currently in the process
of strengthening the embankments on both sides of the river; thus far some
68 kms have been completed on the settlement side of the river.
16.       As of mid-November 1975 some 3,000 ha had been cleared (bush clear-
ing was actually required on caly 1,000 ha), the area ploughed, and the farm
divided into plots using ridgers so as to facilitate both sowing by hand and
irrigation. Because of the shortage of time before the first crops had to be
planted, the land was not levelled; this deficiency will, however, be correc-
ted before the next planting takes place. Construction of the primary canals
has been completed, and construction of the secondary and tertiary canals,
headgates and culverts is nearing completion. These combined operations
required 18,000 tractor hours, including the time devoted to the establishment
of settlement quarters and the construction of access roads. Although the
crops will be mostly gravity irrigated, pumps will be available on a stand-by
17.       Crop grown will be maize, sorghum, sesame, peas and vegetables.
Land in the settlement is also being distributed on the basis of 30 ha/100
families for cooperative rainfed cultivation.  The settlement crop scheme is
headed by an agronomist assisted by 45 field foremen, and a large number of
people are being trained to supervise future cultivation.
iurtum Warey
18.       Kurtum Warey is also located on the Shebelli some 30 km from
Sablale. The bush is somewhat heavier in this area, necessitating more
tractor hours spent in bush clearing. The settlement is subject to the same
difficulties with respect to water availability as is Sablale; consequently,
irrigation will generally be possible for about eight (or less) months of the
year, and seasonal crops only will be cultivated.  The total planned agricul-
tural area is 13,000 ha, of which about 2,000 ha will be planted in this crop
season. All of this area will eventually be irrigated if sufficient water is
available.



APPENDIX 1
Page 8
of rehydration fluid, the highest death toll was recorded.
Mortality was also high due to gastroenteritis and pneumonia
among malnourished children. Medical staff were unable to
attend to all the seriously sick due to the fact that the
nomads tended to keep their sick confined to their huts for
a few days before reporting to medical staff. The death
toll since the establishment of a record system in the centers
totalled 19,000 by May 31, 1975, and most of the victims were
children. A WHO team was sent to Somalia to help recommend
remedial measures, while WHO experts stationed there on a
regular program basis kept close watch on the situation. The
supply of basic medicines was always adequate, thanks to the
generosity of donors from the international community. By
the end of May about 125 tons of various types and kinds of
medicaments had been shipped by air to Somalia for relief
purposes, and by that time all centers were staffed by medical
and para-medical personnel and Red Crescent volunteers.
(d) Distribution of Shelter and Blankets. Government provided
material assistance to help in establishing the victims at
the relief centers in a pattern similar to that of nomadic
life. They were housed in their own huts, and if the newly
arrived family had no shelter, Government provided the
materials needed to build a hut. The families were also
provided with blankets, especially those who were in areas
where weather conditions gave rise to health problems.
Donations of blankets were made by a number of countries,
and Government purchased others abroad.
(e) Other Basic Services. Efforts were made to maintain satis-
factory sanitary conditions with the help of Red Crescent
volunteers and para-medical personnel. Full use appeared
to have been made of extensive Government transport resources
for the distribution of food, medicine, water and other
essentials. Problems with the procurement of an assured
supply or vehicle spare parts emerged, as the country
experienced a shortage of the foreign currencies required
to import such essential items.
15.       Substantial assistance was received from the international commu-
nity. Pledges of food aid alone exceeded the requirements of the relief
centers and helped to reduce the deficit between the estimated national
requirements and the stocks available to the country (Table 3).  Assistance
in the supply of medicines, other essentials of high priority as well as
contributions in cash were provided to meet the increasing needs of relief
operations.



APPENDIX 1
Page 9
D. Drought Rehabilitation
16.       There were two categories of people affected by the drought who were
supported by Government and other relief assistance: those inside the centers,
and those remaining outside. The table below illustrates the total numbers
involved from December 1974 to July 1975.
Affected Population Li
Inside               Outside /2           Under
'Months            Centers              Centers         Rehabilitation   Total
Dec. 74             80,000                                      -        80,000
Jan. 75            160,000               60,000                 -       220,000
Feb. 75            170,000              170,000                 -       340,000
Mar. 75            190,000              300,000                 -       490,000
Apr. 75            220,000              400,000                 -       620,000
May  75            230,000              300,000                 -       530,000
June 75            150,000              250,000               50,000    450,000
July 75             50,000              200,000              100,000    350,000
/1   Ministry of Interior, Commission for National Relief, unofficial
estimate. These figures represent monthly averages and may not
therefore exactly coincide with figures in Table 1.
/2   As data for the census of population and livestock carried out in
February 1975 have not been released by Government, any figures regarding
the population affected by the drought can only be treated as rough
estimates subject to substantial error.
By July, 1975 a large number of the people remaining in the relief camps began
to return to their previous nomadic way of life. Between July 21 and July 27,
for example, it was estimated that about 23,000 people (over 3,000 daily) left
the camps. By the end of July, about 118,000 people - 44% of the maximum number
registered in the camps at the peak period - had returned to the ranges.  It
is estimated that eventually 135,000 to 140,000 persons (or around 50% of the
camp's total population at the height of the drought) eventually followed the
same route.



APPENDTX 1
Page 10
17.       These nomads should have a reasonable chance of rebuilding their
herds, and thus restoring the livestock industry which is so important to
the economic well-being of the entire country. According to information
received by representatives of the Livestock Development Agency (LDA) and
the M inistry of Livestock, Forestry and Range (MLYR), conditions on the
rangelands are gradually improving. Prices of livestock in general, but
particularly for breeders, are high; cattle of about 250 kg liveweight sell
for about So.Sh. 600 to 700 (US$100 to 110) per head 1/, and one breeding cow
of average quality for about twice as much.  Thus livestock prices have almost
doubled as compared to those before the drought in 1973. Presently demand for
any breeders (cattle, goats, sheep or camels) is high, and any female animal
offered for sale is readily sold. Government has not yet released the results
of the population and livestock census which was performed in February
(para. 8); however, according to recent estimates, the number of sheep, goats
and camels in the North is almost back to normal, and the supply of cattle
for slaughter required by the Chisimaio and Mogadiscio export slaughter
houses (although being sold at higher prices than anticipated) is satisfactory.
The Mogadiscio meat market is well supplied at the controlled price of around
So.Sh. 6 per kg (US$1).
Resettlement Program
18.       Government at this time decided to close down the camps as rapidly
as possible. In order to speed this process, and in an effort to provide the
nomadic peoples with a new life style which might offer them a more secure future,
it planned to resettle from 100,000-110,000 persons (20,000-22,000 families) in
the South in the inter-riverine area between the Juba and the Shebelli rivers.
The families were to be established in three settlements based on organized ralnfed
and irrigated agriculture. In addition to these agriculturally based settle-
ments, it was decided also to settle nomads from the camps in fisheries settle-
ments along the coast.
19.       On June 20, 1975 Government began the relocation process.  As the
bulk of the people were to be transported a very great distance, a massive
organizational effort was required. Special arrangements were also made
necessary by the fact that the roads between the camps in the north and the
southern agricultural areas were either in poor condition or represented only
rough tracks across the bush. As local means of transport were insufficient,
Government sought assistance for the purchase of trucks, fuel, building materials,
etc. The Soviet Union provided 165 trucks and twelve aircraft to help transport
the people. Expenditures for this service were included in the US$60 million
1/        This price is about 20% to 30% higher than that for comparable
animals in Ethiopia.



APPENDIX 1
Page 11
economic aid credit recently approved by the Soviet Union.  The settlement
program was carried out with incredible speed and with a minimum of confusion.
By August 18, 1975 some 120,000 persons were re-established in the new communities,
and by late October, the relief camps were closed.
20,       It appears-then that the final outcome of the rehabilitation/
settlement program will be as follows:
(a) Three agricultural
resettlement centers
in the South                105,000 persons
(b)  Six to eight fisheries
resettlement centers
along the coast              15,000 persons
(c) Nomads who have returned to
their former way of life   150,000 persons
June 21, 1976



SOIIAL I A
D)ROUGHIT REJIA BILl rAT 1ON PRO(;IAII
JUIiA-SIIHEIII..1. AREA EIIHI(CENCY S1;'1'1',1IINT SCHEIIIIE
0'
Suppy and Demand of Staple Food Iteims for 1975
Estimate as at let Augtst 1975 1/
Coverni-                                  National
Grain         Stocks      Der Season       Cu  Seasot    mieLnt        Not Yet        rotal          Require-
Grain             1/1/75        1974            1975         kikorta    Delivered         Available    ments          Balance
i:aize/Sorgluum    1,700     10,000/           30,000-/      50,000         52,000        143,700      180,0004/           36,300
Wl4eat/Wheatflour   200        -                 -             4,650        63,000         67,850       25,000         (+) 42,850
Rice/Btulgur                                                                      6/
}lhcat5/        2,700        -                 -            5,000         25,450-        33,150       25,000        (i)  8,150
TOTAL           4,690      10,000            30,000        59,650        140,450        24,s,700     230,000        (+) 14,700
1/ No substantial changes occurred within thie period Juue Ist - August 1st in thle estimates.
2/  Used as seeds and not food.  Previous DER production: 1971 - 25,000 tons; 1972 - 24,000; 1973 - 11,000 tons.
3/  Conservative estimate.  Previous CU production; 1971 - 58,000; 1972 - 77,000 toIls; 1973 - 13,000 tons.
4/  tlrional requiremeot is estimated at 15,000 tonis per molLth, corresponding Lo 180,000 tons/year, or 160 gr/day/per capita.
S/ bulgur whieat is expected to be utilised as a subtiituce for rice.
6/  Inicluding 2,800 tons purchased tinder an UNIO alLocationt.
H t
M t2
Source: Ministry of Interior - Coiniiission, fuv- Nationial Relict.
,-   >



APPENDIX 2
Page 1
SOMALIA
DROUGIT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SEEBELLI AREA EMERGENCY SETTLE1ENT SCHEME
Agricultural Settlements
A. Introduction
1.        The Goverument of Somalia has undertaken to settle 100,000 - 110,000
nomads rendered destitute by the drought in agricultural areas in the southern
part of the country, and in fishing communities along the coast. These persons
were selected from those remaining in the drought relief centers in June 1975.
Participation in this program was voluntary, and only those people were included
who chose to undertake an entirely new way of life. At the peak of the opera-
tions, about 268,000 persons were registered in the 20 centers, but by mid-
June some 70,000 of these had already returned to nomadic life. This left a
population of some 195,000 eligible for settleaent. It was projected that some
110,000 of these would be relocated in three agricultural settlements in the
Juba/Shebelli inter-riverine area, and that some 20,000 - 25,000 would be
settled in fishing communities along the coast. The balance it was expected
would return to the ranges to rejoin their families. The resettlement effort
began on June 20, 1975 when some 3,000 men of working age were transported to
the agricultural settlement areas to begin bush clearing, land preparation,
and construction of huts and other facilities. The program was completed with
incredible speed; by August 18, 1975 some -120,000 persons had been transported
to their new homes.
2.        The major focus of the resettlement effort has been the establish-
ment of the three agricultural communities in the Juba/Shebelli area. The
largest of these - Dujuma - is located on the Juba River in an area of
fairly high agricultural potential and is designed to absorb up to 50,000
persons. The other two sites - Sablale and Kurtum Warey - are located some
30 km apart along the Shebelli River,- nd are designed to include some 30,000
persons each. The settlements were established with the same precision which
had characterized the relief center operations. The nomads were transported
by air and by truck from the relief centers to the settlement sites; most
carried with them their traditional huts, and whatever personal belongings
they had left. These huts were then reassembled in carefully designed group-
ings at specific locations chosen by the settlement authorities. Some
make-shift accommodations were also constructed out of local materials for
those who had no shelter of their own. Food and medical facilities were
immediately made available to all families, and sanitation and health serv-
ices provided. Teachers who had been working in the relief centers accom-
panied the settlers and education classes were continued without interruption.
The people in the settlements exhibit a high degree of enthusiasm and seem
to have achieved a remarkable accommodation to an entirely different life style.
There is little question that the tremendous physical development achieved
to date could have been possible only with an enthusiasm, efficiency, and
willingness to transform a vision into reality that is perhaps unparalled in
Africa today.



APPEITDIX 2
Page 2
B. Organization of the Settlements
3.        The settlements are highly structured - both physically and by age
group - and are designed to ensure that each member of the community contri-
butes to the eooperative effort. As of November 15, 1975, a total of some
103,291 persons were living in the three agricultural settlements. 1/ These
were distributed as below:
DuJuma       Sablale        Kurtum Warey         Total
No. of Persons            47,896        29,486           26,295           103,677
- of which are
productive labor       20,086        12,000           10,019            42,105
Total Planned Area of
Agricultural Develop-
ment (ha)              30,000        18,000           18,000            66,000
These detailed figures are made possible by the carefully controlled records
kept by the settlement authorities. Records are kept of each person who
entered the settlement, his/her age, sex, region of origin and births and
deaths within the settlement itself, These figures are prominently displayed
on blackboards posted in the administrative headquarters, and are updated
on a daily basis.
4.        The highly centralized administrative structure of the settlements
is illustrated in the attached Chart (World Bank 15394). Each of the settle-
ments is run by a Central Committee under the direction of a Chairman and a
Secretariat. The day-to-day administrative matters are in the hands of
functional sub-committees who set general policy guidelines; these committees
include a Law and Order Committee, an Orientation and Education Committee,
a Health Committee, an Economics and Statistics Committee, a Construction
Committee and a Production Development Committee. The community is divided
into quarters, zones and sections - each of which has its parallel committees
charged with carrying out directives received from the Central Committee.
(The settlements areas have been physically divided for reasons of convenience,
health control, etc., but no final decision has as yet been reached whether
each of the three might be ultimately divided into constituent villages).
Families are thus organized into groups of 500, 250, 100, 50, and 10, with
committees established at each organizational level. The lowest grouping -
10 families - constitutes a unit for cooking purposes. Given this formal
structure, those in charge of settlements are able to quite easily organize
the people into working groups for crop cultivation and construction of
I/   In three fisheries settlements along the coast 14,491 persons were settled
by this same date, bringing the total settled population to 117,782 persons.



APPENDIX 2
Page 3
housing and offices. These groups are set a day's quota of work and are
allowed to return home when the job has been completed. Others are employed
in the running of day care centers and schools, work shops, health facili-
ties, the distribution and cooking of food, and numerous other activities.
In addition to their regular duties, at the end of the work day (usually
2 p.m.), adults are given special education and training in a wide range
of areas.
Human Health and Sanitation
5.        Comprehensive human health programs have been undertaken in all
three settlements along the same lines as the measures implemented in the
relief camps; obviously, however, more permanent arrangements will have to
be made in the fairly near future. Every person who entered the settlements
is examined medically and treated where necessary by doctors, volunteer
nurses and/or local assistants. Hospitals have been set up in each settle-
ment; these are now housed in tents, and are generally divided into a general
hospital area and an infectious disease area. At the present time there are
generally adequate medical supplies available (largely from donations received
from abroad during the drought). Permanent treatment facilities are beinz
planned.  kventually, Government intends to provide three permanent hospitals
and a clinic or dispensary per each 10,000 persons. The Ministry of Health
also has plans to train local health workers to assist in dispensing medical
treatment and supplies.
6.        Malaria.  As the settlement areas are highly malaria endemic, the
following activities are now underway, and will receive considerably greater
attention in the coming year:
(a) DDT spraying of all existing and new structures, and general
spraying of all housing areas within a distance of one km;
(b) Prophylasis with chloroquine (a dose of 300 mg per adult
weekly) to the entire adult population; eventually treatment
would be given only to infants, children under 10, expectant
mothers and debilitated older persons.
Rather sizeable investments in DDT powder, Hudson Expert sprayers, chloriquine
tablets and some transport will therefore be required.
7.        Schistosomiasis.  The settlement areas are known to be hyperendemic
for schistosomiasis. The Ministry of Health plans to put into operation a
combined program of periodic mass therapy, treatment of snail infested water
collections with molluscide, and water management programs. These activities



APPENDIX 2
Page 4
will be carried out by two mobile teams - one for mass therapy and health
education and the other for molluscides application and water management.
It is expected that advisory services would be provided by WJHO and that opera-
tional and otber costs would be met by Government or other international
agencies.
8.        Sanitary Control.  Two basic elements - a safe water supply and
adequate sanitation are indispensable for every settlement. All three of the
settlements have been established near potable water supplies. Shallow
wells dug by the cotmunity have been completed in sufficient numbers to meet
existing needs; although water is found at 10 meters, most of these have been
extended to a depth of 40 meters. Plans have been made for drilling future
wells either as part of the overall water development program or as part of
self-help schemes. Depending on local conditions, drilled wells cost be-
tween US$20 and US$25 per meter to construct with the help of the community;
a complete 120 meter deep well therefore will cost about US$30,000.  Care
must be taken in the location of these wells to ensure that they are located
at least 30 meters away from possible sources of pollution such as septc
tanks or pit latrines.
9.        The most important sanitary facilities are perhaps the latrines.
As the nomads are unaccustomed to living in large concentrated settlements,
the importance of sanitary provisions is not adequately appreciatad, and
the disposal of wastes has become a crucial problem. The Government has
provided a number of latrines, but as they were usually designed to serve
large numbers of families (sometimes 50 - 100), resistance has developed to
their use; attempts are now being made to increase the number of latrines
to at least one per 10 families, and perhaps eventually to one for each
family. Due to the increasing prevalance of flies, latrine covers have become
essential; these are now on order.
10.       The ,Ministry of Health hopes to establish a network of health
officers in the settlements to organize and operate the preventative health
and sanitary services; these would include (i3 addition to locally trained
staff) one Medical Officer, one Public Health Nurse/Midwife and one Sani-
tarian. Their duties would consist mainly of inspecting the facilities with-
in the settlements and providing guidance for their use. This staff would
of course be fully supported by the medical personnel to be provided under
the overall settlement health program.
Education
11.       Educational programs are being provided within the settlements for
all school age persons. Children age 5 - 6 receive instruction in Arabic
using the Koran;.children from 7 - 15 go regular schools (usually located by



APPENDIX 2
Page 5
grade under a convenient tree), and all adults receive basic instruction and
training at the end of the work day.  Teachers (mostly the same ones who
worked in the relief centers) have been recruited from all over Somalia, but
it is clear that many more will be required in the coming years. In order
to help meet this need, adults from the settlements are being trained to
assist the tLeachers, and it is hoped that many of these will eventually prove
capable of organizing the instruction themselves. In addition to teachers,
a large number of classrooms will be required in the next eight years; present
estimates show a requirement of 479 classrooms (using a two-shift system),
at a total expected cost of some So.Sh. 19.7 million (US$3.2 million). Voca-
tional and agricultural training programs are also being set up in all three
of the settlements. Training is provided in the operation of tractors,
bulldozers and other equipment, irrigation control, as well as proper crop
husbandry practices. Vocational training is provided in the areas of equip-
ment maintenance (mechanics), handicrafts, maintenance of electrical equipment,
basic sanitary control ato. - all the tasks necessary to make the populations
self-sufficient. Finally, day-care centers are being established to provide
care for children whose mothers are working, and to give instruction in child-
care including nutrition requirements.
C. Agricultural Development
12.       The rate of physical development of the three settlements has been
astonishing. Since August when the last of the settlers were brought in,
a tremendous administrative and h-man effort has succeeded in transforming
these sites into agriculturally oriented communities. The areas have been
surveyed, planned, and demarcated; the firsts fields have been cleared,
ploughed, disced, levelled and planted. Irrigation works have been con-
structed, and arrangements made for transport of water by gravitational
flow and pumping when necessary. The physical development at each settlement
has varied according to the difficulty of the terrain and the size of the
available labor pool, and the relevant progress for each is spelled out in
detail below.
Dujuma
13.       Dujuma is by far the largest of the three settlements; with its
expected eventual population of 50,000 persons, it will be the third largest
community in Somalia. The size of the settlement was made possible by its
location along the Juba River; the Juba has a reasonably reliable water avail-
ability for almost 10 months of the year, and consequently would be able to
support a much larger irrigated development than would the somewhat less
reliable Shebelli. The availability of water is crucial in all three settle-
ments, for the rainfall in this part of the country is sporadic and extremely



APPENDIX 2
Page 6
unreliable; the Somalis are thus reluctant to rely permanently on rainfed cul-
tivation out of fear that the survival of these communities could be threatened
by another prolonged drought. The total planned agricultural area (by year )
is estimated at 30,000 ha, of which some 2,000 ha are expected to be planted in
the coming crop season (Cu 1976). Although the Somalis intend to use controlled
irrigation over'as much as this as is feasible, 1/ for the first years a size-
able proportion of the fields will be devoted to rainfed cultivation. As of
mid-November 1975 some 2,000 ha bordering the river had been cleared of the
dense bush and forest cover using 100 hp bulldozers. 2/ The effort involved
was considerable, as the removal of large stUmps sometimes required up to
eight hours of work each. This area has also been ploughed, disc harrowed
and levelled (somewhat imperfectly). Construction of the primary irrigation
canals has been completed, and the construction of secondary and tertiary
canals, headgates and calverts is expected to be completed within a short
time. These combined operations have thus far required a total of 22,000
tractor hours, 3/ including those hours devoted to the clearing of the settle-
ment quarters and construction of access roads. Four water pumps are now
being installed at 2 sites along the river to provide a back-up capability
at those times when the river is too low to support gravity flows.
14.       Planting is already underway on the established fields; sowing
commenced on October 15, 1975, and will continua over the next month. The
main crops this season will be maize, sorghum and vegetables.  Sorghum is
being planted by hand in furrows, and maize with seed drills. Vegetable
seedlings including onions, tomatoes, lettuce, garlic and peppers are already
flourishing, and will soon be transferred to a 20 ha vegetable field. In
addition to the 2,000 ha prepared for cooperative cultivation by the entire
settlement, some 700 ha have also been distributed to families for rainfed
cultivation; a group of 100 families is given a 30 ha plot which they will
farm collectively.. The overall Dujuma agricultural development scheme is
headed by an agronomist assisted by 45 field foremen; in addition, some 600
persons are being trained in farming techniques and will eventually form a
pool of skilled labor to oversee the cultivation program.
Sablale
15.       Sablale settlement is located on the lower Shebelli flood plain.
As this area is mostly free of any dense bush or tree cover, bush clearing is
1/   The actual extent of the irrigated development will depend not only on
the technical capability of transporting water, but also on the total
water availability. This in turn will depend on the construction of the
Bardera dam and the Fanole barrage and development works.  No final plans
have been made for the commencement of construction of the Bardera dam;
however, the Fanole dam is under construction, but no data has been set
for its completion.
2/   Bulldozers, tracitors and all other equippent used in the settlements were
brought there from various projects throughout the country, with the
result that development in other areas may be seriously impeded unless
replacement equipment can be obtained,without delay.
3/   Information furnished by Somali Government authorities.



APPEIDIX 2
Page 7
only required on limited areas. The overall development will be very similar
to that at Dujuma; however, as there is some serious question as to the relia-
bility of water from the Shebelli in certain seasons, only seasonal irrigation
is planned. In general terms it would appear that irrigation would be possible
for some eight months of the year (April-December), but this capability would of
course depend on the demands made on the water supply by other irrigated
developments (e.g. banana plantations) elsewhere along the river. In any case,
the total planned agricultural area (by year 8) is estimated at 18,000 ha, of
which some 3,000 ha are expected to be planted in the approaching crop season.
The Government hopes to eventually irrigate the entire crop area. In order to
make this possible and to reduce the water lost in the vast swamp into which
the Shebelli disappears, the staff at the settlement are currently in the process
of strengthening the embankments on both sides of the river; thus far some
68 kms have been completed on the settlement side of the river.
16.       As of mid-November 1975 some 3,000 ha had been cleared (bush clear-
ing was actually required on only 1,000 ha), the area ploughed, and the farm
divided into plots using ridgers so as to facilitate both sowing by hand and
irrigation. Because of the shortage of time before the first crops had to be
planted, the land was not levelled; this deficiency will, however, be correc-
ted before the next planting takes place. Construction of the primary canals
has been completed, and construction of the secondary and tertiary canals,
headgates and culverts is nearing completion. These combined operations
required 18,000 tractor hours, including the time devoted to the establishment
of settlement quarters and the construction of access roads. Although the
crops will be mostly gravity irrigated, pumps will be available on * stand-by
17.           Crops grown will be saize, sorghum, sesame, peas and vegetables.
Land in the settlement is also being distributed on the basis of 30 ha/l00
families for cooperative rainfed cultivation. The settlement crop scheme is
headed by an agronomist assisted by 45 field foremen, and a large number of
people are being trained to supervise future cultivation.
Kurtum Warey
18.       Kurtum Warey is also located on the Shebelli some 30 km from
Sablale. The bush is somewhat heavier in this area, necessitating more
tractor hours spent in bush clearing. The settlement is subject to the same
difficulties with respect to water availability as is Sablale; consequently,
irrigation will generally be possible for about eight (or less) months of the
year, and seasonal crops only will be cultivated. The total planned agricul-
tural area is 18,000 ha, of which about 2,000 ha will be planted in this crop
seasons All of this area will eventually be irrigated if sufficient water is
*vailable.



APPENDIX 2
Page 8
19.       As of mid-November, some 2,000 ha had been cleared of heavier
acacia vegetation and roots and trunks removed throughout; the ploughing,
harrowing and ridging of the same area had also been completed. Because of
the shortage of time, the land could not be levelled properly, but this will
be done before the next planting. Construction of the primary canals has
been completed, and the other canals, calverts and beadgates will be completed
shortly. As at Sablale the river banks are being reinforced to allow greater
retention of water in the river; some 80 km of embankment has been completed
thus far on the settlement side. These combined operations have thus far
required 25,000 tractor working hours. Two pumping stations are already in
operation as the river is low.
20.       Planting on some two-thirds of the prepared area has already been
completed, and the remaining one-third will becompleted shortly; sowing
commenced on October 10, 1975. This season the crops grown will include maize,
sorghum, sesame, peas and vegetables. Some 700 ha have been distributed to
groups of 100 families (30 ha per group) who will engage in cooperative rain-
fed cultivation. The overall scheme is being supervised by an agronomist,
assisted by 35 field foremen.
Future Planned Development
21.       Government plans to develop the three settlements as rapidly as
is possible given the existing financial and equipment constraints. The
financial constraint is particularly important, as it is costing Government
somewhere on the order of US$2.0 million per mouth to provide food, clothing,
health care and other necessities for the almost 105,000 persons now in the
three areas and for the 15,000 persons now settled in fishing comunities
along the coast. It is absolutely crucial that the settlements be transformed
into productive self-sufficient entities as rapidly as possible, for this
diversion of financial resources represents a tremendous drain on the Somali
economy. Development in the settlements can be achieved at the expense of
other programs for a limited period, but Government is fast approaching the
time when its priorities will have to be given careful reconsideration. The
settlements have also had a direct effect on physical development in other
areas. In order to provide sufficient equipment for the massive land clear-
ing needed, Government diverted almost all the heavy equipment available in
the country to the settlement program; this means that some other projects
are at a virtual standstill due to a lack of tractors, bulldozersand attach-
ments. A massive infusion of new equipment will be necessary to replace much
of the worn-out machinery now being used (some of the items are over 18 years
old), and to free the other equipment for use elsewhere. In the future
Government hopes to transform the settlement crop areas into large-scale
irrigated and mechanized farms capable of generating a sizeable surplus for
consumption elsewhere in the country. The feasibility of this plan will,
however, depend both on the availability of water for irrigation in all three
areas, and on the level of capital investment possible.



APPENDIX 2
Page 9
22.       Present Government plans call for massive expenditures of capital
in each of the settlements over an eight year development period. Thia pro-
gram is detailed below:
DuJuma     Sablale      Kurtum Warey      Total
Total Planned Investment
(So.Sh. million)                    734.8       333.0         355.0            1,422
- of which
loans                          474.8       233.0         255.0            962.8
grants                        260.0        100.0         100.0           460.0
Investment in US$ million            117.9         53.5          57.0           228.4
Thus at the end of eight years, the composition of the settlements would be
approximately as below:
Duluma     Sablale      Kurtum Warey      Total
Total area under crops (ha)          30,000      18,000          18,000        66,000
No. of Persons                       50,000      30,000          30,000       110,000
No. of Families (houses)             10,000       6,000           6,000        22,000
Roads (km)                               16          30              16            62
Airports                                  1           1               -             2
D. Project Area
Climate and Soil Characteristics
23.       The climate of the lower reaches of the Shebelli and Juba rivers
is tropical semi-arid. Precipitation in the coastal areas occurs predomi-
nantly in the Gu season (May to July) ahd the Der season (October-November).
Additionally, coastal showers (called locally Hagai) occur during July and
August. No records have been kept of annual rainfall in the area.
24.       Disregarding any local factors it is reasonable to assume, however,
that total average precipitation in the Project area will be of the order of
500 mm per annum. The variability of rainfall between seasons and from year
to year indicates that crop production under dry farming conditions is subject
to substantial risk. The UNDP Project for the Water Control and Management of



APPENDIX 2
Page 10
the Shebelli (1969) indicated that stations having a mean annual rainfall of
500 mm or less are likely to suffer a partial or complete failure of one
raingrown crop two years in every five years (ten seasons).
25.       Several surveys of the land resources,of the Shebelli and Juba
rivers and interriverine areas have been undertaken 1/ - 7/ at varying degrees
of intensity ranging from a broad reconnaissance to the semi-detailed level.
Although estimates of the areas having a potential for development differ
and to some extent overlap, the consensus of opinion is that cultivable land
does not constitute a constraint on either river or in the interriverine area.
Due to an insufficient data base, it is not possible to discuss the avail-
ability and suitability of soils in the interriverine area (about 5 million ha).
26.       Unfortunately, data relevant to total and seasonal rainfall and to
soil moisture retention characteristics which are of considerable importance
for dry land farming appear to be missing in a number of studies. In the
absence of such information soil texture as a measure of moisture holding
capacity was taken into consideration in assessing suitability for the cultiva-
tion of selected crops under rainfed conditions. It is of prima importance
that studies be undertaken to develop the necessary data in this area.
27.       The soils of the three settlement projects may be briefly described
as follows:
(a) Dujuma: Apart from the recent alluvial soils (levees)
extending for about 3-5 kl on either side of the river,
the major soils constitute the gritty or sandy clays
which have gray or brown surface soils, often exhibiting
a thin overwash of sandy clay loam. The riverine allu-
vial soils support heavy and sometimes dense stands of
riverine forest which is currently in the process of
being cleared.  The gritty and sandy loams support a
moderate to thick cover of thorn bushes (acacia) inter-
spersed with commiphora species. In the more open places
or where bush and thicket has been removed, a wide range
of grasses rapidly establish. A superficial inspection
1/   Inter-River Economic Exploration -  International Cooperative Adminis-
tration - Washington, 1961.
2/   The Juba River Scheme -  Selchospromexport 1965.
3/   Agricultural and Water Surveys -  Somalia 1967 - UNDP.
4/ Project of the Water Control and Management on the Shebelli River --
UIDP 1969,
51 Groundwater Resources Survey - Data Inventory of Hydrology and Water
Resources, SATEC-1972.
6/   Agricultural Sector Project Identification Report -- RMEA -  1973.
7/   Juba River Development Plan -- EEC - J975.



APPENDIX 2
Page 11
of an area recently cleared some three to four kilometers
away from the river indicated that the soils were predo- -
minantly sandy loams exhibiting very high infiltration
properties. The levee soils appear at first sight to be
very 'well-suited to the production of a range of crops
under dry farming conditions.
(b)  Sablale and Kurtun Wares:  These settlement areas lie
within the flood plain of t'e~Sh_egb' i.-From observation
and local enquiries the Sablale area has been the subject
of flooding in the past (slack water). An area of 150 ha
which has been recently ploughed exhibited good physical
properties and could be regarded as a clay/loam with
carbonates at a depth of 60 cm. By virtue of its location
and proximity to the meandering course of the river (an
earth bump is being excavated for a distance of 24 km on
the east bank for flood protection), drainage could prove
a problem and it is probable that surface drains for
the removal of storm water willf berequired at some stage.
As is to be expected in this type of location, nut grass
(cyprus rotumdus) was in evidence and its eradication may
prove both costly and time consuming.  Notwithstanding the
above reservations, the soils appear to be both deep and
fertile and should have a good potential for production
also under rainfed conditions given proper utilization.
Control of Grain-Eating Birds
28.       There are many grain-eating birds species in Somalia, but most
important of all is the Red-billed Dioch (Quelea-Quelea). This bird is wide-
spread throughout the Sahelian-Savannah regions of Africa and occurs by the
billion. The protection of sorghum and maize in the Shebelli-Juba Inter-
riverine settlement area would be necessary, as damage to these crops,
(especially to sorghum) by birds is widespread and may reach 5% of the total
crop countrywide in some years.
29.       A UNDP/SF Regional Project, "Research into the Control of Grain-
Eating Birds (Quelea-Quelea)" is now in progress in Somalia but results
achieved so far do not guarantee protection from the birds. Recently trials
with Bird Control Units have started in Somalia and a study is currently
under implementation to evaluate their feasibility on a larger scale. Results
would be relevant for the resettlement program, as in the resettlement area
Quelea are commonly abundant during the sorghum and maize growing season.
Some other control methods are presently being studied, but cannot so far be
recommended for large scale protection. These include an integrated bird
repellent program at the site of the crop, together with a kill of pest birds
in breeding colonies or roosts within 25 to 30 km of the major crop growing
area. This method, which was introduced for the first time on a trial basis
on about 1,600 ha of the about 3,600 ha irrigated farm of the Somali-Libyan



APPENDIX 2
Page 12
Agricultural Company near Afgoi (earlier the "Afgoi-Mordile Projectt"), will
show within a period of 2 to 3 years whether the method is feasible or not.
According to the Manager of the above Research Project this method should
prove to be more efficient than broad-scale programs to kill birds. It is,
the opinion of the Manager that this constitutes a ecologically sensible
approach to bird management.
30.       Due to the lack of final data and recommendations from the above
studies, it was not considered appropriate to include a bird control compo-
nent in the proposed Project. However, this is an area whi-ch should be
given particular attention by Government in the course of Project implemen-
tation.
March 22, 1976



I     I'  *1 



SOMALIA
mRqC:IT RM41I. 'r  S-1c: YnrV
Cut*" o        elm * 1.5.000 be.)
be  *haaewy        ha   'N=smo.te          1ha  IT'Lmaw7              ha    flaeobm.
Jready osam ieetE Noe  1975                                                     -                       *
To be Doeit  Ye   I (Statt Spging 1977)                          3.0o o                    1,000        5          1.000          1          1.000         25
Yre, 2                                             3.000                     1.000         -         1000          *           5.000
Tom 3 (ViLShod Vitem  1979)                        3.000          *          1.000         *1.000 S*                              00
9.006       1           3.000         I         31000                    u3.00o 20
frost.,:    your I                                               1.000         20         1.000         s          1,000          I          5,000         36
Year 2                                             35000         20          1.000        6          1.000          6 C.00o                  32
76, 3o 1.000 60                                                              1.000        t                                     .ooo  022
TOM                                        9.000,~~~~~~~oc  -to     i.ooo        20         1.000         20           s-5 t00o10
ratow        Y     t                                                           to '        ' 1                     *      '      &            '      
T  r 2                                               -           to            *           I                        3             -          t1
Yewaa  3                                                                                   3           -            3             *          '6
TONL                                                        *          10            *          tO    _                  tO             *           so
sffaetom"7 throoheuw,
yo                                                   *           10            -          3            -            3             *          t
'fu                                                  *           10            * o         3           *            3             -          1e
To r                                                                                                                3
.-:    l                                                -           1 *                      4O  -                                   *
ZOT"~~~~~~~~ 10                                                       -          1           10           to                        50-
2.So lbdab_                                                -                 2           -           2                        I 2           -            6
yewal 1                                            3.000                                                            - .000  -1.00  ,00
'e   2                                             6,000          -          2,0DD        -          2.000          *         10.000          -
'feo  3                      _.0                                              .0                      .0                        .0
TM"a                                                     23.000                    i .000-       -           .000                    MAW.00
J_~ 1, 1976.



fit ict   it           C.        cit-                                                                                                                                          i A       C      .t       tt        5 5                                           iS,titJri
Ai ..      t                                                                                                                                                                                 -Ci         - S                                                                 .1~ -  0
tc  so  so  St  tvi                                                  v                       Gs                       tt           n           OR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ai.-  t
w    Cit.       a..         me                                             w%i   W   - S,1  at - t  I       -   OW            5                                                                        cctZL  .     ~          "I'T-   -                                     iii
it  it      it           a      ~                     --           - so             5                                     Uw          a                                                iti                                         .                                        *i
a,                                         IS                                   W- 
-    a                      a                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    cL*it-
OR i           a            St                                                                                                       -                                                                                                                                          *iRto.Sii
a               IS                    oil                                                                                                                                                                                      ii I  a  I  I
ii        aS        S                      ii1                                  on           a      a                             OR                                                                                                                                                .Ci.StId*W
aK        9I        at            a            M                                a.           W       a                            a       * a                                      S       I                       -      .    -   ,,       ,
.Ua       OK I                             at                 -         -         tt    I                                         Sg-  " MU  i " S                    in-          UTp     I S   It
ass  a                      SO        Cii                                                                                                                                     Or- C         ,                                  a 
a    W =                    Sii  a         at                             CSOi         I, a                                                                                   a       e    s      Z                            i 
oni       V1         IS           a         i                                     t          a-                                   a       a                                                                    c -       .          a                                                           aia
-    4.        a                      a             i     - it         . a         - a         .    ta                                   a           CtSt !    el U           U           aIt I     a         S-   S       .a  St                                                        1-o
an   itt  ci  a    in  - it  -       - CC  - Ca  - A~                                 ~          ~        ~         I   :U                   n                                               4.
ci    a  S         a    a   - L~~~~~~ ~~IS - a                    VsL    el   -                                     *                                                        -                       - 
OK ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    9       - A                                                                 iati*iCafi.nn4
latii          pt           a         i.                        i                               -   at      -   St9   I-   aFtW.    -   S        -1 I.   Si        I-0   I   2a      -    C       -,   S      -   Li           99.     -
it        atS  L-                                              -   a        -   it      -   atL          OR           S       -           -    t                  -9                            t 9-L  9ciMXa      -   c             noc  I
MR        a.        ata. owait                                       p      i           an S Oa       ca              a       CC C                                                         C C,        CCC          tit         iit         C
SO   ax          .0      I                            va      I                                        "I           M      I                                                                                 W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aat-a    t.~ 
at  a  aS  a.  .       .      .       .       .       .       .       .       .      .       .a    -~~~~~~~~~~~~-.   nit..                   .          . a                ..-mm"- li
it  AZ  A  a    ~~~ . .    .      .      .~~            ~          a     -    -       -    -   .        t      iuwm -m          -     -     -, a                     t                                 



bW- odusv-4  lltifm
J9A-5tbLikI MI.  &C.eILW1W~                 -
_ | I * S | v | & i s ~.1. W-S1.  C...  ..d...... _                               T0. A t
J     a    a     A                              A.A p    A   I.    a  *. _   __  _  __  _  _  __  _  __  _  _lUl                  l tl hf   t                b     9                   M AL   CM?
2                                                                                                                                                         * hp-  '
I  B        S       ~~~~teled                         S I                  I          Uaa                             a ee                          IN"Wed                     Les.4     l;8.Ie   iT.t
Wt..I ?,.,,..e jJ
O.Igt.8.tIe. (15*23 p.e he)1T                                140      tS          42        a40                     6                  41A                                                                                                            I"    p     1t
T,_sPcTa (usl3114 J. tt^s$"gw/.                    a          $16      8U         10             Y                 4A       1II                                       $t5         4         up 1A                  5        16              114       1t1        w
TA"'t.,      C4,& C     .006 Pet.$.) J            U                               3U t  i    4          6         4         1          6          4         6         a          4     4              5          T o                        34        34         12
f-  FrtC.ctI. chgoi.a.                                 35        4          9o       a           t.  1     so         3         4          to        a                    4.ss.                 m d. *                                          3          0 n
o  W -~~~~~3                                    .           ,          4         Is       .          .      .          ,                                                                    ll                      .:  IS  54  .-
C           s                                       lw        of         46                                                  m          at                             to        its                   W .) , n  24  n  5  n  1o                                   M *
xAL                                            Sk       1%        47 :3                  z        144        Sto       S4-        Its       544        2         9 -3 44                6         II      3.54          54             94      I.         3.94"
*.tc.c..si.a...t.'.j?/    )       17        64       331~4      53          I         44        SI It  ois                      8           8         3                  I.e        5)3         lie       15It                        4 
V.I-~ ~ ~    ~                                _'.-at Itt LI          1)4 1lt                                                                                                                                                   $tol 21_             Vs _ t. _
,,~~- b                                                                                                                                 .34?             17 4..-.- IL>I.LL 
.I .......  ....I.
4/  3% ...413  -   I.eh   1$   ,~   .  23  jeei..  334 Y."e 98re   *-eto hw  "Ieei.e.



Table 4
Page 1 of 2 pages
SOMALIA
DROUGHT REHA3ILfTAT10'4 PROGMAM
JUBA-SHlEBELLI AREA EIEPR5E2CY SEMLEXENT SCREtEM
Technical Assistance Cost
a                            Irrigated      Dryland
No.     Position                          Production   Production      Total
Man year
1      Irrigation Engineer                    3           -              3
1      Irrigation Agronomist                  3           -              3
1      Dryland Agronomist                     -            3             3
1      AmA-1 Production (1)                  2           -              2
1      Horticulture Specialist                2           -              2
3      Master Mechanic                        6            3             9
Short Term Technical
Consultancies                      3            -              3
1      Tinaucial Adviser                      3           -              3-
1      Procurement Officer                    -           3              3
1      Monitoring and Evaluation       -
_          Specialist                                       3              -
11           Sub-total                        22           12            34
Cost at US$50,000 per man year
(US$'000)                      1,100          600          1,700
10S Physical Contingency            110           60            170
TOTAL                   1,210          660          1,870
Training                            300            -            300
101 Physical Contingency             30            -             30
330           -            330
GRAND TOTAL             1.540          660         2,200
Total Technical Assistance Program 40 man years:
-  11 Specialist for Production a total of 31 man years.
-  Short Term Consultances                    3 man years.
-  Training                                   6 man years.



Table 4
Page 2 of 2 pages
Proposed for Irrigated Production
(US$'000)
Year ---
1         2          3
Irrigation Engineer                          50         50         50        150
Irrigation Agronomist                        50         50         50        150
Animal Production                             -         50         50        100
Horticulture Production                       -         50         50        100
Master Mechanics                            100        100        100        300
Other Technical Consultancies                50         50         50        150
Financial Adviser                            50         50         50        150
Training of Staff                            50        100        150        300
Sub-total                             350        500        550      1,400
Physical Contingancies 10%                   35         50         55        140
TOTAL                            385       550        605
Proposed for Dr=land Production
(US$'000)
Year --
1         2          3       Total
Dryland Agronomist                           50         50         50        150
Master Mechanics                             50         50         50        150
Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist                               50         S0         50        150
Procurement Officer                          50         S0         50        150
Sub-total                             200        200        200        600
Physical Contingencies 10%                   20         20         20         60
TOTAL                            220        220        220        660
December 13, 1975.



!:!                           .....   ...  ...    ... .. . , ,,,,, ,          , .....    ................. . .......   ..I
.~ ~ ~ ~~~~...                      ..    ...    ...    ....         .  . ...,  .......,,,,,    ,,,  ,,,,,,.  ..   .......    ....    .o___ a......
s   !      I s     !                                                                            ...... .. .... .... ..:.........'.....i
~~~~~~~. ..   ,,               ,,., .. ,,,,, ...     ....     ....    .......   .     . .....  ...I..........  ..   .....,       . --,,,-'L-
~~~~~~~~~~.  ...                              .......              .  .  .... ,....I....                 .......   ....         ....... :~.-   * 
I..                             ....   ....   ... ... .  I  .   .....  .........  ..... 
~~~~~~. .... ..                  5}_,__ $   _ i_ ...     ....     .I..     ....... __.     .    ......  s ...._., __ ...............,, _i
* C X   s  tY.tiEtr  !Y   ^r   !r   ;"w.u.twrY  ff ff tT$!y .g.tY;s9%tZSst   YS   ....                          ....          ........
.~~~~~~~~~~~~ It  i   ! pvr                                                                      .,    ._,,,,......   ....   ........... 
P.                                     ... . . ....P .........
.~~~~~~~~~~s-   II  .    S  i._   ll _e___"_XWW___   ................    .  . 1.- ...............   ... .......   ....             ........ o. 
;   1 E         iwp E.I    ifp!  .                                                                                                                    p.s' I!} !W8!!        "! t*!*i!!! ! ' '           
*.                                                        .                                                          . i x _ .. , ws . _ ... ,  .................... .............
pIaw   PV!1P  v   a P ;?P         
EI-   1 1.                             5 as...    3.5             3......... .    .Y         . .                            .,....
I                                                                                                                                                                a~~~~~!V;P" "    1I    1   1 IlI   -
~!! !~!!! . ~PP1 I  1. . . up  p..j...   .
31..~      ~. .   ...                ........    .               ....    ... . I...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .....                                           .  .     ...., .............    .. , .......   ....             .........,,,t
. .                    ISIPI IpS.   .... _            ....           . ..  , , ,  ,       ... Pwp
.~~~~~~~-   %.-. to .1*,,. .. ..   .    %., ....                          ... .........    ..         .......   ..... . ........:
            ... .  i... .....  ....  ...          . .    ...     ,     ,    .,..   --
i,      I        P g          ppip p!! a'  lS '!isp         u!tw!          p pis    Ea!! t!"P!'z.iauaSs       II 
. .                               PP'S 5~'S  IIS  r  wnw_ *_ _   5_ . _ _ _.     . s . u...    ..... p  , ...........  . p sup
t tS  l t9t1:st !7! Ex! !F!' '' E'" it='sl^'.!l'#.t!!. '!w'!Y....... .  .  ....    ..............    ..    .......   ....    ................. i 
I  !   51551'S  P'  NIMP  l1i as ~P          isW   S    F. FPi'                              .......   ...              ........
. .i__ _.a..                                ,    . .i                     . ..                                                            I
.    t t  .   't!t!  1sg~ ~ .    ......              .! ..S!!   ...     .. .2'   .........XEt     ..    .......$  .Z^   .....*....
.~~~~~~~~!  POP  .#A   11 8_8_ 4_ 1s!"   P1_ ._ m................                                w_.tss. ;Sna!__ _  VW   ............ ............. ___. _  ................____. 
I             .             ~   P !!!        4!  50!t !!tE!   Ia                       |$tE ''! t                 ,.ltW         ss **w sw.,pw  5t 5 1ph su  i
~~~~~~~~~~~.. .                                    .. .    p 1c. .c   .. J. 8I.",Y6w_Sw .___ _lf  
I       I    ..i...  ~.. *            .. ........   -. .....   ._.......  .....   ..                   .......  ....    .........
~~~~    U                                                  p~~~~~~o   A 1!  ;1 Isip's            !!sp1,p   .............
S  I   ..w....  1    V.:.1.   II ..       .           ii...   ............   .1.....
I  I   ..I.....L...t..II.............  .'SS5..........   ....                                    ........
-                 I     ~~     ~~~-1 -    -A.....-                  . *AS    t..    3........- 
.   .....             .      ..... .   .......      .i1...             Ki.........                                 .....             ..
:  *   ~ ~ ~~..-.i-   o                                                                                                               .8z !IuIimP   I  SIp  l   ' .....i  I
*    - .  -                                                                                                                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~as - -  1----



APPENDIX 4
Page 1
SOMALIA
DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SHEBELLI AREA EMERGENCY SETTLEIENT SCHEME
Rainfed Crop Production: Basic Assumptions
Technical Assistance
1.        The following assumptions have been made in calculating the costs of
the technical assistance component for the dryland agricultural development in
the three settlements.
Cost per man/month                                  US$
Charge per man                               3,500
Furnished housing                              300
Transport operating costs                      150
International air fares (including
families)                                    lOO
Miscellaneous                                  150
Total                   4,200
Costs of expatriate technical advisers have been estimated at about US$50,000
per annum. This is slightly higher than the figure usually used for compar-
able projects in other East African countries, but the difficulties involved
in the implementation of the proposed program suggest that the above assump-
tions are justifiable.
-Bush Clearing
2.             It was estimated that the following equipment would be needed in
order to clear the bush from an area of about 15,000 ha: 5 crawlers, 200 to
220 hp' with ripper and other ancillary equipment, US$150,000 each; 20 crawlers,
140 to 160 hp with ancillary equipment, US$80,000 each.
3.        Operating cost for bush clearing.  In calculating the operating costs
for the above equipment, the following assumptions were made:



APPENDIX 4
Page 2
(a) the average hp of the two types of crawlers would be
about 160.
(b) Diesel fuel consumption would be based on the following
calculation:  160 hp x 60% engine utilization x 0.250 liters/
hp/h - 24 1/hr or rounded about 25 1/hr. The cost of 1 liter
of diesel fuel is So. Sh. 1.40 which amounts to So. Sh. 35
(US$5.60) per hour.
(c) Oil and grease (including filter) would represent about 152
of fuel cost a So. Sh. 5 (US$0.80) per hour.
(d)  Annual maintenance and repair cost would be about A% of
purchase value of crawlers based on 1,000 hours of work
per year; the weighted average cost per crawler of about
US$100,000- W(4,000/1,000) - USS4.00 per hour.
(a)  Cost of drivers would be based on two drivers per crawler
with a salary of about So. Sh. 6,000 (US$940) p.a. each.
This equals 950 x 2 -  1,900 - US$ 1.60 per hour.
1,200
Assuming that 5 hours of work would be needed on average to clear 1 ha of land,
total cost would be:
US$/ha
Fuel                 5.60 x 5              28
Oil and grease       0.80 x 5               4
Mtaintenance &
repair             4.00 x 5              20
Salaries             1.60 x 5               8
60
No replacement cost has been calculated as the crawlers and land clearing
equipment after.finishing the work in about year three would not have to be
replaced I/
1/   Salvage value of bush clearing equipment (40% of investment cost excluding
spare parts) has been included in year 4 as positive adjustment in the
rate of return to the economy calculation (see Appendix 9).



APPENDIX 4
Page 3
4.   Summary
Total operating cost, excluding depreciation
(US$/ha)                                           60
Total area to be cleared, ha /1                  15,000
Hours of wurk per crawler per year
(effective)                                     1,000
Work done per day on average per crawler on
all three settlements (ha)                          1
Per ha/hours of work needed for clearing (4-6)         5 /2
Years required for land clearing                       3
Ploughing and Cultivatin8
5.        It has been assumed that two types of wheel tractors would be
needed:
(a) 20 tractors of 90 to 100 hp,
(b) 80 tractors of 60 to 70 hp'.
Tractors would work effectively about 1,000 hours p.a. or on average 140 days
and 7 hours per day. It has been assumed that the downtime would amount to
about 30% of the total. The larger tractors would predominantly be used for
ploughing and cultivating while about 1/3 to 2/5 of the capacity of the
smaller ones would be used for transport. On average around 30% of all
capacity would be used for transport.
6.        To calculate the required number of tractors it has been assumed
that, per ha, 3/ 2 to 2.5 hours would be needed for plougning and cultivating
per season or on average 4.5 hours p.a. About 70% of the 1,000 hours p.a. of
one tractor's time, or about 700 hours, would be used for ploughing and culti-
vation, and the balance of about 300 hours for transport.  Based on the
above assumptions, one tractor on average would plough and cultivate annually
about 150 ha (700 ha/4.5).
1/   Heavy bush 3,000 ha; medium 4,000 ha; light 8,000 ha (estimates).
2/   Average.
3/   On the rainfed area, land preparation has been projected for t*o
seasons per year.



APPENDIX 4
Page 4
7.        The total number of tractors required would thus be about 100, out
of which 20% or 20 would be 90 to 100 hp, and 80% or 80 would be 60 to 70 hp.
The total horse power of tractors provided for ploughing and cultivating would
be about 7,000 or about 0.5 hp/ha. This indicates that only the basic and
indispensable tultiviting operations (including ploughing) have been covered
by tractors and labor will have to be employed to a large degree for various
operations including seeding and harvesting. The equivalent of 300 hours
per tractor projected for transport amounts to about 60 ha of ploughing and
cultivating. Consequently, one tractor would cover about 200 ha of ploughing
and cultivating if tractors were not used for transport. These figures were
compared with available farm mechanization statistics, and are realistic under
the expected circumstances.
8.        A lump sum equal to 20% of the tractor price has been included to
provide for tractor attachments including suitable ploughs, offset disc
harrows, toolbars, furrowmakers, etc. Large tractor attachments and/or
stationery machinery powered by tractors have been separately itemized. Total
numbers of tractors, attachments and workshops has been estimated as follows:
US$
20 tractors 90 to 100 hp, each US$15,000          300,000
80 tractors 60 to 70 hp, each US$10,000           800,000
20% of value of tractors for attachments          220,000
15% of value of tractors for spare parts          165,000
50 stationery threshers each US$2,500             125,000
50 trailers each US$4,000                         200,000
10 scrapers each US$10,000                        100,000
6 mobile workshops                                150,000
Sundries (fuel and water tanks, survey
equipment, etc.)                                 75,000
9.        Operating cost for ploughing and cultivating.  Based on the assump-
tion that each tractor would work about 1,000 hours p.a. and that the weighted
average horsepower per tractor of all 100 tractors would be about 70 hp
(95 x 20 + 65 x 80 - 71 hp or rounded 70 hp), the annual operating costs
100         100
would be approximately as follows:



APPENDLX 4
Page 5
(a) Diesel fuel consumption
70 hp x 70% engine utilization x 0.29 1 diesel/hp t/
-    14.2 or rounded 15 1/hour.  Total consumption for 1,000
hours would be 15,000 1 x So. Sh. 1.40
-    So. Sh 21,0U0                              US$3,300
(b)  Oil and grease (including filter)
15% of fuel cost                                US$  500
tc) Annual maintenance and repair cost
During the first three years 7% of the
average purchase value of tractors -
US$1,000 2/ annually; the majority of the
spare parts cost is included in the
investment cost.                                USS  800
Total                US$4,600
Per hour operating cost
(excluding depreciation)                        USS4.60
Per ha/per annum - dryland farming
(4.5 hours x 4.60)                                  21
Per ha/per annum - transport
(3 hours x 4.60)                                    14
Vehicle Oeratin Cost
10.       It was assumed that each vehicle would run about 20,000 km annually.
Based on available data the cost for each km has been estimated at US$0.15
or US$3,000 p.a. for each vehicle.
1/   The projected fuel consumption per hour is purposely estimated on the high
side. Average fuel consumption per hp at various levels of engine loading
(engine utilization) of new diesel tractors is on average:
100%      -    0.24 1/hour           50%        -    0.32 1/hour
75%      -    0.28 1/hour           35%        -    0.34 1/hour
70%      -    0.29 1/hour           25%        -    0.43 1/hour
2/   Excluding attachments.



APPENDIX 4
Page 6
Crop Protection Chemicals
11.       It was assumed that the total area cultivated would be treated with
crop protection chemicals. A lump sum of US$5 representing the cost of the
chemical per ha each season has been calculated for rainfed agriculture. -
Seed
12.       It was assumed that purchase of locally produced seed would be needed
only for the start-up production. The seed would consist mostly of sorghum
and corn and a small amount of oilseeds and pulses. No allowances have been
made for purchase of high cost imported quality hybrid seed, although this
might be feasible at a later stage of production. A lump sum of US$10 per ha
has been calculated for the purchase of seed.
Yields
13.       The difficulty in evaluating the productivity of newly-developed
land, coupled with varying standards of management, makes yield estimation
very difficult. Therefore, estimates were based to a large extent on data
given in the UNDP Water Control and Management Report, 1969, suitably amended
by experimental results from the Afgoi Research Station and the Mordile Pilot
Project. It was assumed that land would be brought into production as
scheduled; yields of corn would increase over a period of 18 years from 750 kg/ha
to 1,000 kg/ha (an increase of about 33%) and in the same period yields of sor-
ghum would increase from 550 kg/ha to 700 kg/ha (an increase of about 27%).
The biggest increase in corn yields is expected to take place in the first 7
years (about 100 kg/ha or about 13Z) due to better and more timely soil prepara-
tion, seeding and weeding. It has been assumed that there would be a total
crop failure every five years (years 5, 10, 15 and 20); however, in those
years no reduction in operating costs has been foreseen as the major expendi-
tures would be required to be made well in advance of the certainty of
failure. The projected increases in yields from a modest initial average
level are expected to be realized through the use of improved cultivation
techniques only, as the use of fertilizer. or improved seed is thought
to be premature under expected conditions. These assumptions anticipate that
once the development program is well underway, crop diversification plans for
each settlement area would be drawn up as soon as possible, taking into account
soil characteristics and relevant agronomic factors. For the purpose of this
calculation it was assumed that 40% of the total area will be utilized for
corn and 60% for sorghum. For the purposes of quantifying agricultural machinery
requirements, inputs and the likely production of corn and sorghum, a hypothe-
tical sequence of yields was assumed as follows: I/
1/ Allowing for the possibility of a crop failure in 2 seasons in five
years, i.e. 2 failures in 10 seasons.



APPENDLX 4
Page 7
Crop                                  Two Seasons              Average
%    --------Year ---------   Yields
Crop                                 (Years
Area    1       8      13      18    1 - 20)
Yield kg/ha  - -
Corn                        40   750    850    950  1,000    860
Sorghum                     60   550    600    650    700    610
It was also assumed that the start-up yields would be achieved within the
first two seasons.
Grain Storage
14.       Losses arising from spoilage during storage may be as high as 20Z;
hence every effort should be made to minimize damage from insect pests and to
prevent deterioration of grain when stored for several months. As a general
principle, commodities should be stored in bags (90-100 kg) and care will be
necessary to ensure that graia is dried to an appropriate moisture content
(10%-14Z); this may present problems since the Der season harvest will be
immediately followed by Gu rains. Artificial drying plants are not considered
ecessary; if problems are encountered, drying to the optimum moisture content
can be achieved by the construction of concrete drying floors which can be
covered by tarpaulines.
15.       Grain should be treated with an approved insecticide (HBC) before
final bagging. It was not possible to determine future Government policy on
storage; it is probable that a unit capable of storing the produce from a 100-
family cooperative will be selected as the appropriate standard, with one or
more larger units in reserve.
Import Parity Price for Crop Produced
16.       For calculation purposes the 1975 import parity price in Somalia
for sorghum has been chosen. A tentative breakdown of the import parity
price of sorghum as of November 1975 is as follows (in current US dollars):



APPENDIX 4
Page 8
Grain sorghum (US no. 2 milo yellow fob gulf ports)    115 /1
Gulf to Kisimayu or Mogadiscio - ocean freight             42 /2
Sub-total:  price cif Kisimayu or Mogadiscio         157
Wharfage at 1% of US$157                                    2
Handling at So. Sh. 6 (US$1) per ton                        1
Cost of transport from Kisimnayu or Mogadiscio to
settlements, So. Sh. 120 (US$20) per tou /3              20
Cost of sorghum in sack cif in one of the
settlements (So. Sh. 1,130)                        180
/1   Source:   IBRD Cocmodity forecast - Commodities and Export Projections
Division, Economic Analysis and Projections Department -
estimate of actual price for T975.
/2   Estimate - UND? Mogadiscio - World Food Program
/3   Estimate - ONAT Mogadiscio.
17.       The farmgate prices, import parity prices and the cif prices in the
settlements for those commodities which would be used for human food have
been calculated as follows:
Farmgate     cif Mogadiscio/
Price        Kisimayu              cif Settlement
Commodity         -     ---- So. Sh./US$ per ton--           --
Corn           500/80          990/175              1,130/180
Sorghum        500/80          990/157              1,130/180
Labor Requirements
17.       It is estimated that for the production of corn and sorghum the
following labor would be required.
Man-days/ha
Planting                                        5
Weeding                                        20
Harvesting                                     15
Sundries                                      15
55



APPENDIX 4
Page 9
Total labor requirement would be:
-     -------Year-
.  '1      2        *3
Cultivated Area (ha)                      5,000     10,000      15,000
Total man-days required (55/ha)         275,000    550,000    825,000
Laborers needed per year
(based on an annual
150 days work per able-
boaied person - 2 in a
family)                                1,800      3,6_.O      5,400
January 21, 1976



APPENDIX 5
Table I
SOt4AI.TA
DROUGHT REH IAI1, liTATI ON IMG1L.AM
JUBA-SIIEBE-LLI AREA EI IERGE1;CY SETTLEE9:NT SCHi )MJ,
Rainfed Crop Production - 15,000 ha
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement 1/
Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter End                  Quarterly       Cumulative
Year 1977
September 1976 2/                                      -              -
December 1976                                         200            200
March 1977                                            500            700
June 1977                                           1,500          2,200
Year 1978
September 1977                                      2,000          4,200
December 1977                                         500          4,700
March 1978                                            500          5,200
June 1978                                             500          5,700
Year 1979
September 1978                                        500          6,200
December 1978                                         400          6,600
March 1979                                            400          7,000
June 1979                                             400          7,400
Year 1980
September 1979                                        300          7,700
December 1979                                         300          8,000
March 1980
June 1980 3/
1/ Expected Date of Signing June 19\6.
2/ Expected Date of effectiveness August 1976.
3/ Expected Closing Date September 1980
January 20, 1976



APPENDIX 5
Table 2
SOMALIAA
DROUGHT RE1IAi,1 1.1] ATION PROCPAM
-JUBA-SIIEIBELlI AREA EVE1RGENCY SLVLt        Scm
Rainfed Crop Production - 15,000 ha
Estimated Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenuitures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Equipment and Materials                   4,780,000                90
(a)  ICB                                  4,285,000               90
(b) Shopping and/or pur-
chase of Stock Items                495,000               90
(2)  Small Buildings                              55,000
(a)  LCB                                     55,000               50
(3)  Oper. Costs                               1,465,000
(a)  Bush Clearing                          700,000               90
(b)  Other                                  765,000               50
(4)  Techn. Asst.                                600,000               100
(5)  Unallocated                               1, 100,000
TOTAL                                8,000,000
February 6, 1976.



INTabIX '
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. I..;
I~~~~~~~ ~~~~ A:        A 
W T-tH~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .,______________________
.4,                 
* -                           I           
IA,~~ ~  A:           ,j          
*~~~~~ ua                                  
a~~ ~  I               I             , , z5  
U       .   _    .   l  o   _o '_ _  



APPENDIX 6
Page 1
SOMALIA
DROUGHT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
JUBA-SHEBELLI AREA EKERGENCY SETT LEMENT SCHEME
1. Inter-Riverine Irrigated Settlement Project 1/
2. Juba-Shebelli Area Emergency Rainfed Production 1/
I. Technical Services - Draft Terms of Reference
1.        The technical services required by the Projects are:
Irrigated      Dryland
No. Position                              Production      Production     Total
- - -   Man years
1    Financial Adviser                       -3             -              3
1    Procurement Officer                      -             3              3
1   Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist   -                 3             3
1    Irrigation Engineer                      3             -              3
1    Irrigation Agronomist                    3             -              3
i    Dryland Agronomist                       -              3             3
1    Horticulture Specialist                  2             -              2
1   Animal Production Specialist              2             -              2
-    Short Term Technical Consultancies       3              -              3
3    Master Mechanics                         6              3              9
11        Sub-total                          22             12            34
The consultants, would primarily act as advisors to their Somali counter-
parts, but would, in consultation with the Government, -e expected to
participate directly in execution and perform such functions as may become
necessary within their field of specialization. A common feature of the
tasks they are called upon to perform is a reassessment of the works already
undertaken by the Government and advise on their improvement and further
development. The consultants' major tasks would be the transference of
technology and the training of local staff, but they would also be expected
to conduct a certain amount of investigative work to update and complement
1/   Both referred to in the text as the Projects.



APPENDIX 6
Page 2
current local knowledge. Within this broad framework, the individual
consultants would be expected to perform the following specific duties:
Financial Adviser
2.        The Financial Advisor would work from Mogadiscio but would be ex-
pected to perform duties at the three settlements. He would, in general,
advise on all financial matters relating to the Projects. In particular,
he would have the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) design of accounting and inventory control systems suitable for
the Projects in accordance with Government procedures;
(b)  advise the General Manager of the Settlement Development
Agency on the appointment of accounting and clerical staff;
(c) prepare the necessary forms and records for the proper imple-
mentation of the systems;
(d) issue the necessary guidelines to personnel in the field;
(e) train and supervise the accounting staff in the use of forms and
keeping accounting records;
(f) advise on the preparation of periodical management information
data and financial statements by the projects' accounts staff; and
(g) advise during projects' development period on the financial
aspects of procurement and on disbursement matters as well as
statements and progress reports as required by the Arab Fund
and the Association.
Qualifications
3.        The Project's Finance Officer should have the following minimum
qualifications:
(a) a university degree and/or professional qualifications in accounting
systems for agricultural projects and related subjects;
(b)  a minimum of 5 years experience as chief accountant or
controller;
(c) previous experience in designing and implementing accounting
systems would be desirable.



APPENI)IX 6
Page 3
Procurement Officer
4.        The Procurement Officer would be stationed in Mogadiscio.  In addi-
tion to adequate academic background, he shouild have a proven experience,
preferably longer than five years, in procuremen,t procedures related to
agricultural projects and be familiar with equipment and machinery commonly
in use in this field. In particular, he would be expected to perform the
following duties in accordance with relevant Arab Fund and Association
guidelines:
(a) preparation of tender documents;
(b) review of specifications; and
tc) evaluation of bids.
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
5.        The specialist would be attached to the Directorate of Planning and
Coordination to perform functions related to the Projects. He would advise
on and assist in setting up a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (Unit), the
training of its staff and the conduct of its day-to-day activities. Specifi-
cally, his duties would include advising the Unit in performing the following
functions:
(a) developing procedures for monitoring and evaluation;
(b)  using data and other information supplied by the settlement
management to conduct analysis and assess the performance of
the Projects;
[c) elaborate whatever modifications that might be indicated by the
performance of the settlements for achieving their objectives
and improving their operational effectiveness;
(d) train staff of the Unit in monitoring and evaluation procedures;
(a) assist Government institutions and other consultants in choosing
and preparing future settlement projects.
Irrigation Engineer
6.        The Irrigation Engineer would be stationed at one of the three
settlements deemed most conveniently placed for the efficient performance of
his duties. He would be required to manage the irrigation operations on
Xhe three settlement areas. In carrying out these duties, the Engineer
would,, inter alia:



APPENDIX 6
Page 4
(a) review the irrigation installations and structures and canal
network already completed by the Government and suggest any
improvements or modifications if needed;
(b) design the comparable installations and structures and canal
network for the remainder of the 15,000 ha in the three
settlements, taking into consideration a possible future
need for drainage to protect the soil against salinisation;
(c) prepare a schedule of irrigation operations in accordance with
crop and soil requirements as determined by the Irrigation
Agronomist;
(d) supervise operations and maintenance of the pumping installations;
(e) organize and oversee the work of the irrigation crews so that
irrigation water would be applied in proper quantities and
according to schedule;
(f) coordinate irrigation operations with other activities on the
settlements;
(g) schedule the relevant maintenance operations;
(h) provide for in-service training for Somali Irrigation specialists,
the irrigators, and the pumping plant employees; and
(i) prepare necessary activity reports.
Qualifications
7.        The Irrigation Engineer should have the following minimum qualifi-
cations:
(a) a university degree in agriculture with an irrigation option
or equivalent;
(b) five years experience in managing irrigation operations in
schemes growing crops in an environment similar to that of the
settlements.
Irrigation Agronomist
8.        The Irrigation Agronomist would be stationed at one of the three
settlements most conveniently placed for the efficient execution of his
duties. He would have the following minimum specific duties:
(a) advising on the most suitable crops and varieties, optimal
methods of their cultura3_Sanagement and their fitting into an
efficient and.agronomically acceptable cropping system;



APPENDIX 6
Page 5
(b)  'determining crop water requirements covering the range of
Boil types and including such aspects as frequencies of
irrigation, timing in relation to crop production, possible
changes in water quality at different periods during the
year, and protection of the soil from'salinity;
(c) investigating the feasibility for double cropping in relation
to the availability of water;
(d) organizing production on a labor-intensive basis and to the
maximum extent possible;
(e) conducting at an applied level investigations to elucidate
the above aspects.
Qualifications
9.        The Irrigation Agronomist should have the following minimum qualifi-
cations:
(a) a university degree in agriculture with an irrigation option
or equivalent;
(b) five years experience in managing irrigation operations growing
crops in an environment similar to. that of the settlements.
Dryland Aaronomist
10.       The Dryland Agronomist would be stationed at one of the three settle-
ments most conveniently placed for the efficient execution of his duties
which would include the following minimum responsibilities:
(a) advise on the most suitable crops, select short-maturing drought
resistant varieties and determine the optimum methods of their
cultural management including crop sequence and rotational
aspects;
(b) develop cropping systems which would optimize the land produc-
tion capability, family labor and food needs;
(c)  introduce cultivation methods calculated to conserve soil
moisture, realize the best utilization of the limited
rainfall, and afford protection against soil erosion;
(d) organize production on a labor-intensive basis and to
the maximum extent possible; and
(e) conduct at an applied level investigations to elucidate the
above aspectp.



APPENDIX 6
Page 6
Qualifications
11.       The Dryland Agronomist should have the following minimum qualifica-
tions:
(a) a university degree in agriculture or equivalent;
(b) five years experience in managing crop produiction operations,
including the growing of sorghum and maize in an environment
similar to that of the settlements.
Horticulturist
12.       The Horticulturist would be stationed at one of the three settle-
ments most conveniently placed for the efficient execution of his duties
which would include the following minimum responsibilities:
(a) advise on the most suitable horticultural crops and leguminose
crops primarily to meet the nutritional needs of the settlers,
and determine the optimum methods of their cultural management;
(b) organize nurseries and transplantation techniques and procedures
appropriate to the chosen crops and local circumstance;
(c) organize a scheme for quality seed production;
(d) establish demonstration plots to introduce new crops and
production methods to farmers; and
(e) train local staff in all aspects of his work.
Qualifications
13.       The Horticulture Specialist should have as minimum qualifications:
(a) a university degree in horticultural production or equivalent;
(b) five years experience in managing small-scale, subsistence-
oriented vegetable production.
Animal Production Specialist
14.       The Animal Production Specialist would be stationed at one of the
three settlements most conveniently placed for the efficient execution of
his duties.  These would include the following minimum responsibilities:
(a) investigating the possibilities of introducing livestock production
into the settlements including the utilization of crop resi1dues,
forage produced in regular rotations, and industrial by-products,
e.g. molasses and oil cake, to which the settlements may have
access;
(b) organizing the production of mill-, for subsistence;



APPENDIX 6
Page 7
(c) exploring the possibilities of producing meat (beef, mutton,
goat and poultry) applying livestock techniques appropriate to a
settled, in a contrast with nomadic, way of life;
(d) providing breeding stock;
(e) organizing animal health protection in cooperation with the
Veterinary Department of the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry
and Range;
(f) marketing the surplus of livestock products;
(g) organizing courses for the settlers in livestock production;
(h) establishing demonstrations for extension and/or demonstration
purposes; and
(i) reviewing the role of livestock in the settlements and prepare
plans for their integration into cropping systems.
Qualifications
15.       The Animal Production Specialist should have the following minimum
qualifications:
(a) a university degree in animal husbandry or equivalent;
(b) five years experience in managing subsistence-oriented
production.
Master Mechanic
16.       The three Master Mechanics would be stationed each at one of the
Project settlements and would be responsible for the overall organization,
maintenance and repair of machinery and 'equipment, and for training Somali
operators and mechanics. They would, inter alia, have the following duties
and responsibilities:
(a)  assist and advise the Farm Managers on all operations relating
to Project agricultural machinery and equipment and participate
in the selection of mechanics and machine operators needed for
the Projects;
(b) advise the Farm Managers on the type, operation, and management
of machinery, needed for the proposed production program;
(c)  establish and supervise the operation of machinery repair, including
a properly organized spare parts section with an efficient inventory
system;
(d) in consultation with the Farm Managers, devise and supervise
and adequate training program for Somali mechanics, tractor
drivers, and machine operators.



APPENDIX 6
Page 8
Qualifications
17.       The MSaster Mechanics should have the following minimum qualifications
and experience:
(a) a qualified "A" grade mechanics certificate, or its equivalent;
(b) a minimum of 8 years experience in the repair and maintenance of
agricultural machinery;
(c) wide experience in the operation and management of agricultural
machinery, and
(d) a demonstrated ability to manage labor and train technical staff,
preferably in an environment similar to that in the Project area.
II. INTER-RIVERINE AREA AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT STUDY
1.        Because of the emergency nature of the settlement program, ad hoc
decisions had to be taken without the benefit of a comprehensive feasibility
study. Advantage, however, was taken of the many studies that had been
carried out between 1961 and 1975 at varying degrees of intensity ranging
from broad reconnaissance to semi-detailed level studies. 11-7/ The inter-
riverine area between the Juba and Shebelli rivers which has been estimated at
200,000 km2 or 20 million ha is located in that part of Somalia with highest
rainfall and the major potential for the expansion of irrigated agriculture.
1/   Inter-River Economic Exploration - International Cooperative Adminis-
tration - Washington, 1961.
2/   The Juba River Scheme - Selchospromexport 1965.
.3/ Agricultural and Water Surveys - Somalia 1967 - UNDP.
4/   Project of the Water Control and Management on the Shebelli River -
UNDP 1969.
5/   Ground Water Resources Surveys - Data Inventory of Hydrology and Water
Resources - SATEC - 1972.
6/   Agricultural Sector Project Identification Report - RMEA - 1973.
7/   Juba River Development Plan - EEC - 1975.



APPENDIX 6
Page 9
The proper utilization of the area requires further investigations to assess
the potential and rationalize an approach to its development. The scope and
details of this study would have to be formulated by a specialist in this
field. It is envisaged that the study would be done in.two phases.
Phase I
2.        This initial Phase would be of a preparatory nature and would be
expected to be completed within 3 to 4 months; the following aspects would
be covered:
(a) Review and collecting, collating and updating of the data
contained in earlier studies.
(b) Review of the recent census of population and livestock
in the light of the drought and the resettlement efforts.
(c) The preparation of a land use map combining soil classi-
fication, crop ecology and climatic data.
(d) Assess the total and monthly availability and suitability
for irrigation of the Juba and Shebelli water, taking
into account current, planned and potential use.
(a) Identify areas suitable for the development of irrigated
farms and assess in general their likely cropping potential.
(f) On the basis of a review of the geology in conjunction
with the climatic conditions, river flow and current
exploitation, assess the overall potential of this
rksource.
(g) Assess the dry-farming and animal production potential of
the areas which, because of shortage of water, cannot be
developed under irrigation.
(h) Draw proposals for a follow-up phase II study; in particular
assess the need for the type of studies inter alia referring
to climatic conditions, the employment situation, population
density, social and economic aspects of the area, agro-
ecological conditions and the general level of infrastructure
and technology in the area. Furthermore, the collecting and
collating of available data, preparation of maps, level of
required engineering design, profile, qualification of staff,
type of institutions needed, etc. should be considered
and a timetable for implementation prepared.
(i) Establish the timing to review by the steering committee
all relevant components mentioned under (a) to (h) and
indicate the dates rather precisely in the timetable.



APPENDIX 6
Page 10
Phase II
3.        This phase would be the longer and more definitive and should lead
to:
(a)  the formulation of a long-term development plan for the
inter-riverine area including physical and social infra-
structure. 1/
(b) A feasibility study of land that could be immediately
developed for irrigation and for rainfed farming.
(c) Preparation of project(s) for international financing.
4.        It is envisaged that the study would be guided by a Governmental
Steering Committee on which the Arab Fund and the Association would be
represented. The Steering Committee would monitor through periodic reports,
and evaluate the progress of the study; it would also.advise the Government
on any changes in the terms of reference that might become evident and draw
recommendations for further Governmental action.
1/   Particular attention should be given to (i) an early identification
of issues - technical, financial, economic, environmental, sociological,
etc; (ii) a rather well defined formulation what should be done about
them; and (iii) the type of documentation required to ascertain acceptable
standards for projects formulation considered by Government relevant and
preferential for the area.
March 24, 1976



SOGILIA
IIROU6HT S  Af.l.l.A!I. G..   2C..A:
JIThA-SIEBUL% AMP1F'. LKt.S.CY C.l_ESE.SCHU4S
Rainfed Production - 15,ii ha - Estinattd Volume and Value of Productlon
Total                      _OlG8U                            __                       __6_                          _ V___e of
Cultivated      Va.    Yil   / Ttl--re,2                   -ug%u "a  YiedIc 0 1 u  41                                                   Total            Clute        Fodofpl
Your  Area  (ha)             O  itTG iti  U  ti  t                                          C  Othl    Price  it   to      lTotal                                  Food   Supply
hd1l/    Totol    Prie 2!   Yoel Vlue    (res h)             Id 1/   Totnl    Pr(c. 2/   total Value         Production       production     for People 31
Y                  Aea (0 3)               hg/b       (tOD )    (toojUS$)    1US3200) f      h.)      hg/he       (to)      (ton/KiS)    (USS000)          (ton)          (USS'OOO)        (about)
1                   5,000        3,000      550       1,650        80           132         2,000      750        1,5s0 80                  120             3.150            252            12.000
2                  lO,0i0        6,000      550       3,300        60           264         4.000       750       3,000        80           240             6.300            504            24.000
3                  15,000        9,000      550       4,950        i0           396         6,000       750       4,500        80           360             9.450            756            36,00O
4                  15.000        9,000      550       4,950        80           396          6.000      750       4,500        80           360             9,450            736            36.iOO
sAt                   - /                    -        4  5                        -            -         -          .          _              -
6                  15,000        9,000O     550       4,950        0o           396          6.000      750       4,500        80           360             9,450            756            36.000
7                  15,000        9,000      550       4.950        0o           396          6.000      750       4.500        60           360             9.450            756            36.000
8                  15,000        9,000      600       5,400        80           432         6,000       850       5,100        60           408            10.500            840            39,000
9                  15,000        9.000      600       5.400        8o           U2-         6,000       850       5.100        60           408            10,500            840            39,000
lOk_1                  -            -         -          -            ,                                              , .  _  .  .                                
11                  t5,000        9,000      600       5,400        80           432         6.000       650       5.100        so           408            10,500            840            39.000
12                  t5,000        9,000      600       3,400        sO           432          6.000      850       5.100        80           408            10.500            640            39.000
13                  15.000        9,000      650       5,850        8O           468         6,000       950       5,700        80           456            11,550            924           43.000
14                 15,000         9,000      650       5,850        so           468         6,0O0       950       5,700        80           456            11,550            924           43,000
lSA/          -            -~~~~~~~00  --                                                        ---
16                  15,000        9,000      650       5,850        80           468          6,000      950       5,700        80           456            11,550            924            43,000
17                  15000        9,000      650       5,630        80           468          6,000      950       5,700        80           436            11.550            924            43.000
18                  159000        9,000      700       6,300        sO           304          6,000    1,000       6,000        8o           480            12,300            984            46,000
19 4/               15,000        9,000      700       6,300        s0           504          6.000    1.000       6,000        SO           480            12,300            984            46.000
20 4/                                         -          --                                     ---
Total-1 (20 years)   225.000      135.000      612 5/   82 550        80          6.58         90 000      863 5/   77,700        80          6.216          160.050          *2.l04          600.000
T YIelds h    ben projected on t-e foll. inig e&autooa,:                         *Total
--------- Season-
Sorghum        350         200        550
Corti          450         300        750
-Yield would reamin utch-aged for 7 year; thereafter in year 8, 13 *nd 18 an increase of about 10 has been calcul,ted.
21 Sor1:huL  farasate price So.9h. 500 per too (US580)
: lmport parity price So.Sh. 1,130 per ton (US$180); cif settlenent.
Corn      farasata price SoS.h. 500 per to. (US$8D)
: wprt parity price - (as that of aosh_um) - So.Sh. 1.130 per ton (US$180); eif settlneent.
3/ Based on co_umption of 200 kg/per capitum/p_&. or 1.000 ks par family.  This amount would cover obout 60S to 70?
(about 2,500 Cal/day/Per capitun). Pros the available quantity 5S has been deducted for seed and 202 for wastage.
4/ Assumed that every fifth year due to drought there vould be no production at all.
5/  Including years when total crop failures are assumed on the cropped area average yteld In the 20 years lifetime of the Project would be sorghum 4c0 kg/ha
and corn 680 kg/ha.
February 2, 1976.                                                                                                                                                                                            I



APPENDIX 8
Table I
SOMALIA
DROUGtlT REHABILITATION4 PROGRt,!
JUBA-SHIEBELLI AREA EIIERGENCY SETTLEMENT SCHEME.
Juba - Shebelli Area Settlement Project
Amount of Taxes and Duties
(US$ '000)
A.  Investment Cost:                                  Cost       Z         Tax
Crawlers                              2,480      10         248
Trailers                                200      30          60
Workshops                               150      15          23
Knapsacksprayer                          60      10           6
Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                80      40          32
2.970      12         369
Physical Contingencies                                       37
TOTAL                                            406
B. Operating Cost:
Crawlers                                900      17         153
Tractors                              1,108      21         233
Vehicles                                 72      26          19
2.080     19         405
Physical Contingencies                                       41
TOTAL                                            446
TOTAL A & B                                      852
Decemnber 19, 1975



APPENDIX 8
Table 2
SOMALIA
DROUGll REU1U1,11TTATlONl PROGIAM
JUBA-SiIERELLI AREA EIIERCENCY SETTLEMENT SCH1EME
Assumptions for the Calculations of Taxes and Duties 1/2/
The following items included in the estimated cost price taxes and duties:
(a)   Fuel                Price       Amount of Duties       Amount of Duties
-  _______ _  A as Z of price
Type                So.Sh.            So.Sh.
Diesel (1)           1.40              0.36                  26
Petrol (1)           2.14              0.91                  43
Oil    (hg)          4.75              0.36                   6
Grease (hg)          6.66              0.36                   5
Percentage of fuel cost in estimated operating costs excluding salaries:
Vehicles 4/                             60%
Crawlers 3/                            65%
Tractors 4/                            802
Percentage of fuel in operating costs:
Vehicles                                60 x 4326
100          26
Crawlers                               65 x 26    .   17%
100
Tractors                               80 x 26       - 21%
i00
(b)   Crawlers                                                10%
(c)   Knapsacksprayers                                        1o0
(d)   Workshop (average)                                      15%
(e)   Trailers                                                30%
(f)   Four Wheel Drive Vehicles                               40X
I/ Tractors - all types, used for agriculture, fertilizers, agrochemicals,
and not specified agricultural machinery, equipment and handtools are
imported without import duties.
2/  Physical contingencies included.
3/ Including salaries.
4/  Excluding salaries.
Source:  Hinistry of Finance, Customs Tariff of the Somali Republic.
January 22, 1976.



HEH2UTAHT HHTTABILITA'TH2N PROGRAM
STBA _ SEBECLLI. SErERTLMWHEHrOSETOC
OEGAPI(ZAT10E AL CH ANT
|2T2.IO               HHAtLsT222IA   2IFTEHTH
HE2I2EEEH   OTIHNE                                          ETCAHHOH-
T2o    201  ' EI,)IA.OIOHR,  C
S.To1,SH,,O>.    ,'                                             EPTATHLESHS,E}                                                                                                                                                                                                               CCTSRThSETSE2E                                                                                    A __,2
C~~~~ ~~ 2rI H:1T"EIH~'TAI
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.ETEI2HO _EVIE                                                                                                                                                                              EAnSEEA
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T,TEH)S X                                                                              *.    .I                                                                                                                                                              
. . . .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o,,,  2.2                                                                                                                                                                                                        I                       , R1II  OS, I
ADMINIE  ERTOO!+   DEvEL5MeET^MoEl-GBlNG                        sErlLEEEErvAFAaEA  _Dv/0LEA                                                                                                                                                                                                   ffEE  TI;EEENrMAnA5Er   ESBLALE                                                                      KD4YAlD.,,  IS'  .s.,,.    WogsE,  I
Ek ~  ~     ~    ~ ~       ISHC Ad202'                                                          HS,E   RE OS  THO,, EHlUQ   505.10 f DEU2   SE1ROTLE                           ISA                                     OHCCTV                                          0H    TRTO,5,10TTTE2E1 f                                                                        051T         DE,  D     STTEaa;AN GE 5)                            TECIT,T                                            EAH  LAHERT
Ce>f.ai ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~~ 20  H,O01TO KaPc                                                           ATHI Dr'STp9n FACni                                _____________                                                                                                     *250 21                                       ATHRTHTH _
41EstsatE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~T                                                                                                S0x   EIO,,1,0 '''SHTH                                                                                  055000twnnElfa                    15)
8              - 5    0 ,             CC                                                    H ,,,'                                              H E O,2                                              2 O C    2 E T   T ,2 )' A a2                                A ,  O   ,        22ow  H|A                        I                                             H E L T                                             S O    ,   TOT           )                          H AEA2      SH S
ST E I A R                 T              T , I   O    T  O  TCS                      I                50               r'                         22   22      ITOE          [H                       I,T     T, 5   2                  ,o                   2   2  T  , ,   E,,I                                5 1     M   O   A          'HAf
22)0,,  'I.                                             T,I~~~R,10DM       IAS    E..T'Ca                                                                       20.,,,E  822lC            o,         'R              .   TAAE ,D 5I          222                         TOTTRTT) ISRH,RT,             N I                                                                        SOTOC,                     2) SERVICE                        SH    CTSO FAUA)
200,2)  fER O   _)' H, . H              AA C   HH T                                          L)    ,   o                                                                                                                                                 +                                           f 2o, , s . A ,   'A2A I f  , 0   0 0)I,   )                 T T T      0  02
EE   0ts af   WO2Ke5FS                                                            -                   _                                                      R  mxnowzx of l Wr                                   F19P5,,1RT,0LINHHIT12,,E.H 05))LE,0OHTS,                                        2)                        ASHHEI,0HA
I rtFoEcE 3 ~~~~~~~S C                                            .T     H. A ).                 ..            .  . .  ^ 2  H Tma , U , o C ) 2                                                                           TT  O O  C                                         2 2  0                            ar s2    BwF' H                                                           0 0 2 O E 2 0                                      N H HA slaT)HT O  E 11SE
L                                                          E a:X  AJxos                          LwB            AErA,oH,  2u                                          C"2T, 102 o~o                                                                 1"4 MHTRMCSTR,                                             !11                TOAGEeQa                                               H),JB 
E                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              r o*m e n+  D dd1 r    i4 !    i   w  KaEerx < (zE ouab.>n L fn o S t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T T ,E 0   )2 T E  
Wlansin   610:                                                  P sss z ,9 Essg            ?x                      Walch _                            iF                                                                                                                          AakSl. 1.Ss Ess             S&!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S5TT~~CTO'
HTOBC2HTS      ETITCTCE                                                                                                                                                                                  FEHUTIT   SBaEEm2ISRDN
E,SS,HT  ETOH  THE ,TRIH                ~~~~~~~~~~~~ooo,ot   ETHEREO -TTEACTPES                                                                                                                                                                                      2TH       TH
aw a it} C s~~~~~~~~~E PlOlE.TT                                                                                                                 T                        552   TS'R*
205,100,          IT,              20,1 ST1  ITT           5.                                              ~~,                                                                                             ~                SE)                       2,11 EATRO1,,,1E,



I5RD 119S4
I                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JANUJARY 197m
N   RePel ien                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  F RI C
:1                                                El 5c~~~~~~~~~~~~~r somaI,l'00   1
n-U        G080ZKA   9AI(OOZ                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~GOBOL KA         A\ /t 
e                              oddur                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GAL GDL'&D 
~~~~~~~e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  gh GanDne-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inYenn~et~gerneH
>~~~eYIIB                                                                                   H OOKNJBD    OOE/~
Seles G    OZn,<AIRHRd
u n e              - - -O - -E ABLIkfON       JBA-HEE-I                                                                 RE
Jowhor  MAO$- OIF ~ ~     ~    :~MAi PRT
Bu                                                              gZ7Z Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E ITRAINA  IPR
Fafadun                       SHAL?                 Balad~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RSORLRONARE
ar era ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                 .-INENTOALSUORE



