                                         Document of
                                       The WorldBank



                                                             ReportNo: 34988-PE




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                            ONA

                                      PROPOSEDLOAN

                           INTHE AMOUNT OFUSD25 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                     REPUBLICOFPERU

                                            FORA

                  REAL PROPERTYRIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

                                       February 16,2006




PovertyReductionandEconomicManagement
Country ManagingUnitfor Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru andVenezuela
LatinAmericaandthe CaribbeanRegion

This documenthasarestricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe
performanceof their officialduties. Itscontentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout
WorldBank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                   (Exchange Rate Effective January 18,2006)

                     Currency Unit =Nuevos Soles (S/.)
                              S/.1.O = US$0.29
                              US$l.OO = s/3.37

                               FISCAL YEAR
                          January 1- December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ADR        Alternative DisputeResolution
AOP        Annual Operating Plan
ASBANC     BankingAssociation (Asociacidn de Buncos)
CAF        Andean Development Corporation (CorporacidnAndina de Fomento)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA       Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CIP        Positive Information Bureau (Central de Informacidn Positiva)
COFOPRI    Commissionfor the Formalizationof Informal Property (Comisidn de
           Formalizacidn de la Propiedad Informal)
CPAR       Country Procurement Assessment Report
CQ
cso        Consultant Qualifications
           Civil Society Organization
DCDPL      Decentralization and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan
ESSALUD    Social Security Institute (El Seguro Social de Salud)
FEF        Front-end Fee
FMRs       Financial Management Reports
FSL        Fixed SpreadLoan
GoP        Government of Peru
IBRD       InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB        InternationalCompetitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
INACC      National MiningConcessions and Cadastre Institute (Instituto Nacional de
           Concesionesy CatastroMinero)
IRCN       National System of Registry Recording (Inscripcidn Registral con Competencia
           Nacionul)
IADB       Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
IGN        National Geographical Institute (Instituto GeogrdficoNacional)
ILD        Freedom and Democracy Institute (ZnstitutoLibertud y Democracia)
INC        National Culture Institute (ZnstitutoNacional de Cultura)
ITC        Information and Telecommunications Technologies
L C        Least-Cost Selection
LCR        Latin America and Caribbean Region
MAG        Ministry of Agriculture (Ministerio deAgricultura)
MEF        Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economiay Finanzas)
MINJUS     Ministry of Justice (Ministerio de Justicia)
MVCS       Ministry of Housing, Construction and Sanitation (Ministerio de Viviendu,
           Construccidny Saneamiento)
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization

N S       National Shopping
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCM       Presidency of the Council of Ministers (Presidencia del Consejo de Ministros)
PCU  .    Project Coordinating Unit
PETT      Special Programfor RuralLandTitling (Programa Especial de Titulacidn de
          Tierras)
PIP       Project ImplementationPlan
PNF       National Formalization Plan (Plan Nacional de Formalizacidn)
PSW       Procurement of Small Works
QCBS      Quality and Cost-Based Selection
RENIEC    National Identification and Civil Status Registry (RegistroNacional de
          Identificacidn y Estado Civil)
RP        Real Property Registry (Registro de Predios)
RPA       Regional Procurement Advisor
RPI       Immovable Property Registry (Registro de Propiedad Znmueble)
RPU       Urban Property Registry (Registro Predial Urbano)
SARP      Property Registry Automatic System (SistemaAutomatizado de Registro Predial)
SBN       Superintendency of National Assets (Superintendencia de Bienes Nacionales)
SBS       Superintendency of Banking and Insurance (Superintendencia de Bancay
          Seguros)
SEPR      Special Section of RuralProperties (Seccidn Especial de Predios Rurales)
SIAF      Integrated FinancialAdministration System (Sistema Integrado de
          Administracidn Financiera)
SIR       Registry Information System (Sistemade Informacidn Registral)
SOEs      Statements of Expenditure
SUNARP    National Superintendency of Public Registries (Superintendencia Nacional de
          Registros Pliblicos)
SUNAT     National Superintendency of Tax Administration (Superintendencia Nacional de
          Administracidn Tributaria)
SUR       UnifiedRegistrationSystem (Sistema Unico Registral)
TORS      Terms of Reference
UPRP      Urban Property Rights Project
WDR       Word Development Report

                    Vice President: Pamela Cox
                  Country Director: Marcel0 M.Giugale
                    Sector Director:  Ernest0 May
                   Sector Manager:    RonaldE.Myers
                     Sector Leader: Vicente Fretes-Cibils
               Task Team Leaders: David F.Varela / Jorge Luis Archimbaud
                   Team members: Keisgner Alfaro, Juan Carlos Alvarez, JosC-
                                      Manuel Bassat, John Bruce Malcolm Childress,
                                      Victor Endo, Guillermo Garcia Montfifar,
                                      Alvaro Larrea, Javier Madalengoitia, Ricardo
                                      Mago, Veena Mayani, Patricia McKenzie,
                                      IsabellaMicali Drossos, Juan Pablo Molina,
                                      Xiomara Morel, Felipe Morris, Yoshimi
                                      Nishino, Kathrin Plangemann, Maria Elena
                                      Ruiz, Cora Shaw, Andrea Silverman, and
                                      Alonso Zarzar.

FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                        PERU

                   REAL PROPERTYRIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

                                                   CONTENTS

                                                                                                                          Page

A STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE
 .                                                          ........................................................      1

                                                                                                                          1
 2. Rationale for Bank involvement........................................................................
 1. Country and sector issues.................................................................................
 3. Higher level objectives to which the Project contributes............................................                  6
                                                                                                                          6

B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
 .                                ................................................................................        7


 2. Project development objective and key indicators....................................................
 1. Lendinginstrument........................................................................................             7
                                                                                                                          7

 4. Lessons learned and reflectedinProject design.........................................................
 3. Project components .......................................................................................            8

 5. Alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection.....................................................                 11
                                                                                                                          13

C IMPLEMENTATION
 .                          .....................................................................................         13


 2. Institutional and implementationarrangements........................................................
 1. Partnership arrangements.................................................................................             13
                                                                                                                          14
                                                                                                                          15
 4. Sustainability ...............................................................................................
 3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results........................................................

 5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects.......................................................              15
                                                                                                                          16

D APPRAISAL SUMMARY
 .                               ..................................................................................       18

                                                                                                                          18

 3. Fiduciary....................................................................................................
 2. Technical....................................................................................................
 1. Economic and financial analyses........................................................................
                                                                                                                          19
                                                                                                                          19
 4. Social........................................................................................................
 5. Environment................................................................................................           20

 6. Safeguardpolicies..........................................................................................           21
                                                                                                                          22
 7. Loan Terms and Conditions...............................................................................              23

Annex 1:Country and Sector Background               ................................................................      25

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedbythe Bank and/or other Agencies                                  ..................38

Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring                ...........................................................       41

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription           .....................................................................       50

Annex 5: Project Costs   ........................................................................................         57

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements        .................................................................      60

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                      ................................  62

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements        ......................................................................     67

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis       ..............................................................      73

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues  ..........................................................................      89

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision         ..........................................................    91

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File      ..................................................................     93

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits      ..................................................................   95

Annex 14: Country at a Glance ...............................................................................      98

Annex 15: Institutional Assessment  ..........................................................................     100

Annex 16: Social Assessment ..................................................................................      119

Annex 17: Communications Assessment        ...................................................................      149

Annex 18: The UrbanProperty Rights Project          ...........................................................     153

Annex 19: Map IBRD33465.    ..

                                                 PERU

                       REAL PROPERTYRIGHTSCONSOLIDATION PROJECT

                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                  LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                                 LCSPS

  Date: February 16,2006                              TeamLeader: DavidF.Varela/ Jorge Luis
                                                      Archimbaud
 CountryDirector: Marcel0 M.Giugale                   Sectors: General public administrationsector
  Sector ManagedDirector: RonaldE.Myers/              (100%)
 Ernest0 May                                          Themes: Propertyrights/ Generalpublic
                                                      administration
 ProjectID: PO78894                                   Environmentalscreeningcategory: C
 LendingInstrument: Specific InvestmentLoan           Safeguard screeningcategory: S3

                                        Project FinancingData                                         1
  [XILoan     [ ] Credit   [ ] Grant [ 3 Guarantee          [ ] Other:

 ForLoans/Credits/Others (US$m.): 25
  TotalBankfinancing(US$m.): 25
  Prnnosedterms: FSL                                                                                  I

                    Source                            Local             Foreign             Total
I BORROWER/RECIPIENT
   -~~~                                       I          16.60     I         0.00    I        16.70   I
  ~         ~


  IBRD                                                  20.10                4.90             25.00
  Tntal:                                                36.70                4.90             41.70

  Borrower: Republic of Peru

  Responsible Agency: Commissionfor the Formalizationof Informal Property (COFOPRI) andNational
  Superintendency of PublicRegistries(SUNARP)




  Does the projectdepart from the CAS in content or other significantrespects?Ref.
 PAD A.3                                                                                [ ]Yes [XINo

  Does the projectrequireany exceptions from Bankpolicies?
 Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                           [ ]Yes [XINo
  Havethesebeenapprovedby Bank management?                                               [ ]Yes [IN0

I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                               [ ]Yes [XI   No
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                               [ x ]Yes [ ] No

Does the project meet the Regionalcriteria for readiness for implementation? Ref.
PAD D.7                                                                                    [ x ]Yes [INo



The main objective of the Project is to consolidate a decentralized and sustainable quality real property
rights system that facilitates access for the Peruvianpopulation. This system will enhance the welfare of
real property owners and facilitate access to economic opportunities. Even though the Project cannot
eliminate all forms/causes of informal tenure, it will reduce the negative impacts of informality and
discourage further informality by consolidating the legal security of property rights, completing
conversion of informal tenure, and buildingcapacity to address its causes through strategic partnerships
of various levels of Government and key stakeholders in the private sector and civil society. The
proposed system will also provide support to the ongoing decentralization program of GoP through the
institutional strengthening of ParticipatingMunicipalities.

Building on the achievements of the UPRP, the Project will: (a) generate comprehensive real property
rights policies through diagnostic studies, and legal and regulatory reform proposals; (b) address the
remnant demand for property formalization and cadastre, through a national strategy and municipal
strengthening; (c) establish a modem real property registry system based on reliable information and
demarcation systems; and (d) support investment and credit promotion initiatives to empower the poor
andfacilitate the use of the poor's realproperty rightsina formal economy.

Projectdescription[one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, TechnicalAnnex 4
Component 1.Comprehensive RealProperty RightsPolicies
The objective of this component is to: (a) strengthen the policy-making process on property rights in Peru
to preserve the achievements of the legal, regulatory and institutional reforms pursued under the UPRP;
and (b) and to ensure that further policy reforms will lead to equitable and sustainable socio-economic
outcomes. It will finance the technical assistance required to facilitate real property rights knowledge
 management, and to prepare sound legal and regulatory reform proposals. Topical areas include inter-
 institutional coordination in a decentralized governance framework, access to affordable land, land use
planning for municipalities, and the linkages between real property rights institutions and the financial
 and housing sectors.

 ComDonent2. Decentralized Formalization and Cadastres Services Provision
 The objective of this component is to provide formalization and cadastre services inurban and peri-urban
 areas in the territory of Participating Municipalities, with the technical assistance of COFOPRI, through
 activities: (a) adapted to the diverse needs of informal owners; (b) justified in cost-benefit terms; and (c)
 involving capacity-building for Provincial and District Municipalities. The Project will continue
 promoting administrative simplification to recognize and protect property rights; only to the extent that
 formal rules interact with social reality and reduce transaction costs, will GoP be able to avoid reversion
 to informality.    It will comprise the following subcomponents: planning of training activities by
 COFOPRI, capacity-building and technical assistance for local governments on formalization services,
 and capacity-building and technical assistance for local governments on cadastre services, and
 supervision of capacity-buildingactivities by COFOPRI.

 Component 3. Modern Real Property Registry Systems

 The objective of this component is to support the integration of realproperty data andthe establishment

 of the nationalcadastre system in SUNARP-RP to improve: (a) the quality of real property registry
 services; and (b) access for the Peruvian population. This component supports SUNARP's real property
 registry information systemand real property demarcation activities.

 Component 4. Communications and Information about Formalization Benefits
 The objective of this component is to support the economic utilization of formal property rights and foster
 real property-related economic activity in Project areas. Specific goals are: (a) providing practical
 information on the linkage between registration and access to credit as a tool for individual
 empowerment; (b) reducing information gaps between formalized owners, and credit providers; (c)
 understanding real estate markets in marginal areas in order to identify measures to encourage and
 facilitate real property transactions; and (d) developing strategic alliances among the public and private
 sectors to promote businessdevelopment and property respect inProject areas.

I
 Component 5.Proiect Management. MonitorinP and Evaluation
 The objective of this component is to achieve successfulProject implementation.It supports: (a) standard
 Project coordination; and (b) specific monitoring and evaluation activities, like (i)      assessments of the
 transparency and accountability framework of COFOPRI and SUNARP-RP, including reviews of
 outreach and disclosure procedures, beneficiary selection mechanisms, and appropriateness of
 communications and educational tools; and (ii)      evaluation of socio-economic outcomes, through: (A)
 continuous follow-up of poverty indicators in formalized areas; (B) assessment of market mobilization of
 real property rights in terms of transaction numbers and prices, credit and investment directed to
 formalized properties; and (C) review of the impact of Project communications and educational activities
 interms of knowledgegains andbehaviors changes inindividuals andcommunities.

 Whichsafeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Ref. PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
 This Project is afollow-up of the UrbanProperty RightsProject (Loan No. SCL-43840-UF'RP). Section
 E.6 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the UPRP mentioned that the project did not deal with
 environmental issues as described and identified by Banks policy, and explained that no involuntary
 resettlement would take place. Section 4 of the ICR for the UPRP explained that in the case of possible
 riskareas or archeological sites, COFOPRIworked with the agencies incharge (National Culture Institute
 [INC] and National Civil Defense Institute [INDECI]) to ascertain whether formalization could move
 forward. In these specific cases, the decision to clear the sites for formalization was taken by INC or
 INDECI, as appropriate. Experience with safeguards policies under the UPRP was therefore satisfactory;
 the Operational Manual provedadequateto prevent any potentialenvironmental or resettlement impact.

 As in the case of the UPRP, the proposed Project will not deal with any environmental issue. Property
 targeted for formalization will only be small lots in State-owned land that was invaded before December
 31, 2001, in urban and peri-urban areas (Property Formalization Law - Law No. 28391- Art. 1). The
 Project will not include the titling of environmentally significant lands (i.e., lands for productive use or in
 rural areas) that are governed by separate legislation and titled under PETT.

 Following the UPRP precedent, the design of the decentralized formalization component will incorporate
 appropriate guidelines to prevent formalization from happeningin risk areas (as mandated by Art. 21 and
 22 of Supreme Decree No. 009-99-MTC and Art.18, Supreme Decree No. 013-99-MTC) or in or nea
 archeological sites (as required by Art. 2.2.2 of Law No. 28391, Art. 1 of Supreme Decree No. 017-98-
 PCM and Art. 3 of Supreme Decree No. 046-98-PCM). Furthermore, the law specifically excludes from
 formalization land that constitutes a natural habitat (Law No. 28391, Art. 2.2). The Operational Manual
 will include sections to screen the above excluded areas out from titling under the project at the earliesl
 stage of Project area surveying; no major change i s anticipated to the provisions of the Manual for the
 UPRP,that were satisfactorily applied.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Board presentation: N/A
Loaneffectiveness: N/A
Covenants applicable to project implementation: N/A

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country andsector issues
a. Politicalcontextand sector policy
President Alejandro Toledo was elected to office in 2001 in the midst of an economic recession. The
Toledo administration has shown an impressive ability to maintain macroeconomic stability while
pushing ahead with a reform agenda. The economy has performed well although President Toledo has
faced a difficult political context. His Government lacks a majority in Congress and cabinet turnover has
been high, with five PrimeMinistersand five cabinets in less than four years.
The Government of Peru (GoP)'s poverty reduction strategy has three main objectives:                          (a)
competitiveness and employment generation; (b) equity and social justice; and (c) institutionality and
governance (creating an efficient, transparent, participatory and decentralized State). A modern property
rights system supports competitiveness by reducing transaction costs and allowing better protection of
foreign and local investments, thus generating a favorable business climate. It also contributes to equity
and social justice by convertingthe poor into active development agents, recognizing their property rights
and incorporating them in the land and housing markets. Enhanced access to property rights would also
contribute to upgrading legal rights over informal arrangements for the poor, an essential function of an
efficient and transparent State.

A key achievement of this Administration has been a redefinedrelationshipbetween the national, regional
and municipal authorities through decentralization of public functions and resources (see Annex 15)
including property rights matters. There are now "exclusive" and "shared" competencies as well as
mechanisms for coordination among the three levels of government. As the decentralization process
advances, responsibilities and resources will be gradually transferred to sub-national governments, and
hence, strengthening this process has become a key focal point of Bank assistance. The GoP's agenda for
the next years seeks to ensurethe fiscal andinstitutional sustainability of decentralization andenhancethe
efficiency, accountability andtransparency of sub-national governments for improved service-delivery.

Specifically,  on urban land tenure, the Urban Property Rights Project (UPW - Loan No. 4384-PE)
achieved a substantial poverty-reduction impact.' It supported the GoP's implementation of major
property rights reforms between 1998 and 2004,' that generated impressive results: (a) around 1.135
million property titles were recorded, which benefited more than 5.7 million Peruvians in marginal
communities; (b) about 630,000 of these properties were later transferred through market transactions; (c)
titled property values increased by an aggregate of US$1.05 billion; and (d) formal credit was leveraged
by about $400 million.

The proposed Real Property Rights Consolidation Project will expand the benefits of the UPRP under a
decentralized management structure. It will adopt new approaches aimed at reaching new users in new
areas. The consolidation of the UPRP achievements in terms of legal security, asset mobilization,
property appreciation and access to credit will require an adjustment in the tools and targets of
formalization     taking into account the new institutional realities determined by decentralization: the


I Scaling-uppovertyreduction, GlobalLearningProcessand Shanghai Conference,"Case study: Peru- Urban
PropertyRightsProject", May 2004. WorldBank, "Implementation CompletionReporton a Loaninthe Amount of
US$36.12Millionto the Republicof Perufor an UrbanProperty RightsProject", December27,2004. Operations
EvaluationDepartment(OED), ICRReview: UrbanProperty RightsProject, February2005.
*WorldDevelopmentReport, ChapterIV, Property Rights, 2005, p. 81.
  Formalizationis the name given inPeruto the processthrough which informalproperty rightsare brought intothe
formal legalsystem. Dependinguponthe situationinvolving a particularparcel, this can includeclearing up
questionsof competingclaims, issuinga formal title, registeringthat title, developinga cadastre, andtaking any
other stepsrequiredto ensure that the rights of the property holdersare recognizedandprotectedby the State.

Provincial and District Municipalities have moved to the "driver's seat" of the formalization and cadastre
processes.

The Project will address several issues in order to discourage the return to informality or the creation of
new informality: (a) a comprehensive property rights policy-making mechanism to formulate a road map
for a long-term vision; (b) the completion of the formalization and cadastre programs, in selectedremnant
areas that require new cost-effective methodologies; (c) the full-fledged integration of spatial and legal
property information records, to facilitate low-cost, easy access for the users; and (d) the effective
economic utilization of property rights and enhanced economic activity in formalized areas. The Project
will also deepen institutional reforms by strengthening an integrated framework for Peru's real property
rights system that: (a) provides effective legal security and reduced transaction costs; (b) administers
property information through a geo-referenced cadastral system; and (c) encourages participation and
consultation.




b. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the Project: (Document
No.: Report No. 24205-PE Date of latest CAS discussion: September 2002)
                               -
The Project will support the specific objectives of the 2002 Peru CAS as updated by the CAS Progress
Report of 2004.4 The CAS first pillar aims at laying the foundation for sustainable growth and poverty
reduction, and the third pillar aims at strengthening governance and helping build an accountable and
efficient government that provides services accessible to all Peruvians. The Project will specifically
 support the decentralization of real property rights functions and provide the required institutional
 strengthening by: (a) formulating and applying comprehensive property rights policies regarding
 clarification of roles, functions and responsibilities of Municipal Governments; (b) supporting Provincial

~~




  CountryAssistance Strategy Progress Reportfor the Republic of Peru,November9,2004, p. 14-15,21,27, and 29.

                                                   2

Municipalities' formalization; and (c) developing District Municipalities' cadastres. The CAS Progress
Report notes that the Bank will continue supporting property rights reform through a new investment
operation that builds on the success of the UPRP.

This Project will also buildon the Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) andthe Country
Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) recommendations that identified the lack of transparency and          .
efficiency as key obstacles to achieving social and economic development. GoP i s now improving, with
the support of the Bank and other international cooperation agencies, the areas of accounting, budgeting,
monitoring, evaluation and reportingstandardsat all levels of government. The Bank's ongoing Technical
Assistance Loans (TALs) for fiscal and social sector decentralization are instrumental to this effort. The
Third Decentralization and Competitiveness Development Policy Loan (DCDPL 111) will further support
the consolidation of fiscal policy. The Project will complement these efforts at the level of District
Municipalities through cadastres that enhance potential revenue generation, and urban planning and
development applications.

The Project also supports the principles of the National Agreement (Acuerdo Nacional), ajoint statement
issued inJuly 2002 by GoP and representativesof Peru's major political parties, religious groups and civil
society. The Agreement contains 29 State policies that articulate a national vision for the next 20 years
and aims at accomplishing four objectives: (i)   democracy and rule of law; (ii) and social justice;
                                                                                 equity
(iii)competitiveness; and (iv) efficiency, transparency and decentralization. The Agreement commits the
parties to concrete actions in the area of democracy and rule of law, including respect to public and
private property. The 7th State Policy specifically provides that GoP will consolidate long-term policies
oriented to prevent, dissuade, sanction and eliminate social behaviors and practices that jeopardize public
or private property. The Project i s also linked to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission's
recommendations since it will work in areas affected by the 1980s-1990s conflict (particularly in Sierra
departments like Ayacucho, Huancavelica and Apurimac) and on the institutional capacity of the Peruvian
State to provide better property rights services.

c. Sector issuesto be addressedby the Project and strategic choices:

Comprehensive real property rights policies. Formalization converts de facto situations into legal
rights while facilitating social inclusion and economic growth. However, it does not address the main
causes of informal settlements: unsatisfied land and housing demands by the poor, lack of transparent
mechanisms for transferring State-owned land, inefficient functioning of real estate markets, and
ineffective protection of property rights.Long-term sustainability of a consolidated property rights system
depends on the formulation and adoption of policies designed to addressthese issues.

The development of a coherent property rights policy framework requires that national and municipal
authorities, in conjunction with key stakeholders in the private sector and civil society, adopt a policy
agenda around the following topics: (a) development of simplified, deregulated procedures to allocate
State-owned land; (b) deregulation of real estate markets combined with the application of pro-poor
policies and mechanisms; (c) administrative simplification in order to reduce transaction costs of property
transfers and to promote private investment (e.g. taxes and other charges, urban planning and building
regulations); (d) adaptation of urban control requirements (including standards and procedures) to the
needs of low-income populations; (e) close inter-institutional coordination mechanisms among various
levels of Government to offer multi-pronged options to stimulate the supply of land for residential use at
affordable prices; and (f) dissemination of the policy agenda to potential beneficiaries and the public at
large.

Unfinished formalization agenda. The National Commission for the Formalization of InformalProperty
(COFOPRI) estimates formalization demand to be around 1.4 million urban and peri-urban properties
involving a population above 6 million Peruvians. The UPRP originally focused in areas that allowed

                                                 3

mass-scale operations like human settlements; today the remnant demand i s geographically dispersed,
comprises midsize and small cities or involves more complex tenure issues that may not be suitable for
mass methods. The economies of scale realized by UPRP during 1997-2000 may not be present in the
future; adjustments to current processes may be required to address this remnant demand, as well as cost
ceilings and cost-benefit ratios that make further formalization economically viable.

To assure the sustainability of a national real property rights system, appropriate coordination i s essential
between COFOPRI as a technical assistance provider that establishes nation-wide procedures and
standards, and the Provincial Municipalities now entrusted with formalization responsibilities.
Specializedjoint local teams should be responsible for field work in informal possessions.COFOPRIhas
to ensure the same quality standards for formalization processes are applied throughout the country.
Technical assistance in communications would be essential, given that the beneficiary groups are more
likely to be isolated from standard information sources (by virtue of minority language and cultural
membership) and require special materials (most of them bi-lingual).

Modern real property registry. The Real Property Registry (RP) has been established under the
National Superintendence of Public Registries (SUNARP), through the gradual merger of the previous
property registries (UrbanProperty Registry [RPU], Immovable Property Registry [RPI] and the Special
Section of Rural Properties [SEPR] in RPI).5A Commission created to coordinate the administrative and
technical aspects of the unification process was chaired by SUNARP and included representatives of
COFOPRI, RPU, PETT, and the notaries and lawyers associations. RP has already integrated the front-
offices of the old registries, dispelling the perception of different levels of quality and security in registry
services: This integration was accomplished in a record time (less than two years) through the strong
leadership of SUNARP's management, an agency recognized as a front-runner in State modernization
efforts. SUNARP will remain a financially independent and sustainable institution (it does not receive
budget allocations from the NationalTreasury butretains the revenuesit generatesas registry tariffs).

Registry unification will follow simplification, deregulation and low-cost access principles, and involve
system operators. The integration of information systems7will be complemented by SUNARP's National
System of Property Registry Recording (IRCN) project, an initiative that pursues country-wide
connectivity of registry offices through intranet facilities and a single technological platform. To assure
accessibility of registry services, the registry integration process has to be complemented by: (a) more
registry offices; and (b) low transaction costs.




'This sectionrecordsthe titles issuedby SpecialProgramfor RuralPropertiesTitling (PETT), an initiative financed
by the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank (IADB).
  From approximately 5.5 million properties in the whole country, about 2.4 million were recorded in RPI and 1.9
million in RPU. About 2 million properties remain outside the registry system, 1.4 million in urban and peri-urban
areas. APOYO Consultoria, "Estudio de Factibilidad para el Proyecto de Consolidaci6n de 10s Derechos de
PropiedadInmueble", Final Report, November 2005.
  RegistryInformationSystem [SIR] for RPIand SEPR, and Property RegistryAutomatic System [SARP] for RPU.
  RPI operated58 offices (11registry offices and 47 receptionoffices), while RPUonly operated 20 registry offices.
Currently, after the merger, the registries network is comprised by 58 registry offices and 23 reception offices.
Under the IRCN around 187 offices will become operational in order to have accessible registry services in each
ProvincialMunicipality.

                                                    4

National integratedcadastresystem. A National Integrated Cadastre System has been createdto govern
the integration of the standards, nomenclature and technical processes of different cadastre-generating
entities at the national and local levels. The System will operate through a National Cadastre Board
chaired by SUNARPthat comprises representatives from Regional Governments, Provincial and District
Municipalities, the National Geographic Institute (IGN), COFOPRI and PETT, and a Technical
Secretariat, located in SUNARP. The Board i s empowered to: (a) determine the System's policies; (b)
approve mandatory directives for real property cadastre activities; (c) approve agreements for the
collection, update and maintenance of cadastral information; (d) establish standards and technical norms;
and (e) determine the information and telecommunications technology (ITC) standards that will integrate
the cadastral information generatedby the System members. Based on this national nomenclature, District
Municipalities will generate a Single Cadastre Code (Cddigo Unico Cutustrul) for each property and will
commission cadastral mapping.

The new System will changethe way the real property registry operates: RPIparcel identification
processes relied on written descriptions, whereas SEPR depended on the cadastral support provided by
the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG).RPUwas the only realproperty registry that integrated a cadastral
function within its regular operations. Therefore, the establishment of the NationalIntegrated Cadastre
System provides an excellent opportunity to build on the experience accumulated by SEPR and RPUand
develop acomprehensive approach for RP. The main challenge of a modern cadastre system i s to keep it
up-to-date in spite of frequent transactions, aggregations or subdivisions. Multiple, non-connected
cadastresare costly to maintain and most likely would be outdated within a short period of time.
Integrated systems are requiredto ensure close linkages among institutions working on cadastres so as to
reduce costs, exchange information databases, and promote maintenance of each blocWlayer of
information at the most cost-effective level.



                                                  5

Information Barriers. Registry utilization has not been sufficiently expanded in Peru where registration
i s not mandatory but only a requirement for public disclosure (registro declurutivo); title validity depends
on the validity of the underlying contractual transaction; nevertheless, absence of registration generates
risks for the parties to the contract because the rights resulting from the transaction cannot be made
effective vis-8-vis third parties until registration makes such rights universally enforceable (erga omnes).
Legislative proposals for mandatory registration (registro constitutivo) have been advanced with no
success.

The registry and credit culture programs under the UPRPintroducedsocial marketing strategiesand tools
to generate new attitudinal and behavioral patterns that complemented property rights reforms. This
approach should be expanded and improved under the Project to strengthen collaborative ventures
between COFOPRI, SUNARE', the Banking Association (ASBANC), municipal governments and
community-based organizations to: (a) support the empowerment of the poor by providing access to
accurate and relevant information for potential beneficiaries of registry services and credit; (b) utilize
innovative communication channels to disseminate messages designed to reach the poor; and (c) engage
Project beneficiaries as active development agents during the implementation of Project-supported
reforms by providing them with opportunities to exchange initiatives and experiences through appropriate
public meetings or mediafora.

2. Rationalefor Bankinvolvement

Continuous Policv dialogue. Through close policy dialogue the Bank has retained a strong role as reform
catalyst, especially in politically sensitive and complex areas like institutional reform and
decentralization. Specifically, through the UPRP the Bank supported the establishment of a sound legal,
regulatory and institutionalframework for property rights in Peru. The Bank's continued support through
the financing of a follow-up Project, will ensurethe consolidation of that framework and the deepening of
reforms.    The Bank's international experience on similar projects will help GoP to complete the
formalization agenda, and provide the basis for sustained protection of property rights and their
mobilization through market mechanisms.The project has also been subject to the close scrutiny of GoP's
national investment system (SNIP) at the profile, pre-feasibility, and feasibility stages. Some issues
related to project objectives and components were raised and addressedduringthe SNIP process.

International experience. During Project design, the Bank contributed with lessons from its extensive
experience in land regularization projects throughout the World in support of policy formulation and
implementation, and legal, regulatory and institutional reforms of registry and cadastre systems.
Specifically in Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCR), the Bank i s supporting projects with
policy, registry, titling and cadastrecomponents in Bolivia, ElSalvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua
and Panama. Best practices of those projects as well as from the decades-long support to the Thailand
Land Titling Project and the more recent Cambodia and Laos Projects, have been embedded in Project
design. Long-termengagement on landproperty issues through investment operations and analytical work
may have a very positive development impact as evidenced in Thailand and El Salvador (see table 4
below).

3. Higher level objectives to which the Project contributes

A reliable and accessible property rights system in Peru will promote growth and reduce poverty in a
sustainable way, as tenure security stimulates private investment and fosters the process of slum
upgrading. Secure property rights will also support improved governance by helping to build an
accountable and efficient government that provides services accessible to all Peruvians. However, a
modern property rights systemi s only a part of a wider policy spectrum; other key reforms (most of them



                                                    6

supported by Bank operations or other donors) will be needed to achieve these higher level objectives,
like the modernization of the financial system andjustice services, or administrative simplification.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

The Project seeks to establish a modern property rights system that will be fully integrated and
decentralized. Physical and legal information on public and private real property will be efficiently and
timely collected and recorded, and made available to the public. Such a system will increase tenure
security, enhance transaction transparency, improve governance at the central and local level, and
facilitate the access to financial products by the poor. The Project will cost US$41.67 million, and will be
implemented over five years starting in 2005.

1. Lendinginstrument

GoP has requested support for this follow-up operation through a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) (as it
was the case for the UPRP) to continue the long-term and far-reaching institutional reforms of the UPRP
so as to consolidate real property rights recognition and protection, facilitate access to property rights by
the poor, reduce transaction costs, and encourage the emergence of dynamic real estate markets. A SIL
has been chosen becauseof the strong investment focus of the operation and the flexibility the instrument
provides. Although a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) would help to build institutional capacity, it
would not have allowed sufficient investments to support the proposed reforms. An Adaptable Program
Loan (APL)was also considered but GoP was not in a positionto commit to a series of operations around
a long-term program that would be implemented under subsequent administrations and preferred to
consolidate the achievements of the UPRP inthe medium term.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand keyindicators

1. Project developmentobjective:

The main objective of the Project i s to consolidate a decentralized and sustainable quality real property
rights systemthat facilitates access for the Peruvianpopulation. This system will enhance the welfare of
real property owners and facilitate access to economic opportunities. Even though the Project cannot
eliminate all formskauses of informal tenure, it will reduce the negative impacts of informality and
discourage further informality by consolidating the legal security of property rights, completing
conversion of informal tenure, and buildingcapacity to address its causes through strategic partnerships
of various levels of Government and key stakeholders in the private sector and civil society. The
proposed system will also provide support to the ongoing decentralization program of GoP through the
institutional strengthening of ParticipatingMunicipalities.

Building on the achievements of the UPRP, the Project will: (a) generate comprehensive real property
rights policies through diagnostic studies, and legal and regulatory reform proposals; (b) address the
remnant demand for property formalization and cadastre, through a national strategy and municipal
 strengthening; (c) establish a modern real property registry system based on reliable information and
demarcation systems; and (d) support investment and credit promotion initiatives to empower the poor
and facilitate the use of the poor's real property rightsin a formal economy.




__       ~~




  Access will be understood in terms of transaction costs o f titling and registration, Le. cheaper and faster service,
more efficient, nearer to clients either physically or via online services, producing better quality documentation by
integrating cadastral and legal information, ina culturally appropriate and sensitive manner.

                                                        7

2. Key performance indicators:

                     Table 1.Project Development Objective and Key Indicators

Project Development          The mainobjective of the Project is to consolidate a decentralized and sustainable
Objective                    quality real property rights system that facilitates access for the Peruvian
                             population.
Key Indicators               Appropriate legal, regulatory and institutional framework for real property rights
                             protection and promotion adopted and operational.
                             Low transaction cost of formalization and cadastre for users in terms of out-of-
                             pocket expenditures and time.
                             Low formalization and cadastre costs for GoP.
                             Increased number of SUNARP users and internet services.

                        I    Increased number of integrated real property cadastre and registry records.
                             Average property value increase about US$550

Specific control groups and baseline for Project and non-Project areas have been established to measure
Project impact.lo

3. Project components

                                  Table 2. Summary Project Description




and Cadastre Services




Component 1will develop the policy framework requiredfor further property rights reforms. Components
2 and 3 are the investment pillars: Component 2 will continue with the "incremental approach" of the
UPRP (moving into new areas only when the original areas have been mostly completed while being
flexible to adapt to local conditions of limited institutional capacity and rapid social change), while
Component 3 will support the completion of registry unification and the establishment of a national
cadastre system. Component 4 is designed to ensure effective Project implementation across components,
to mitigate risks and to support sustainability through communications instruments. Component 5 will
comprise overall Project management, monitoring and evaluation, including civil society participation,
transparency and accountability, and evaluation of socio-economic outcomes.




loAPOYO consultoria, "Estudio de Pre-factibilidad para el Proyecto de Consolidacih de 10s Derechos de
Propiedad Inmueble", First Report, August 2005.

                                                     8

1.       Comprehensive Real Property Rights Policies Component

The objective of this component i s to: (a) strengthen the policy-makingprocess on property rights inPeru
to preserve the achievements of the legal, regulatory and institutional reforms pursued under the UPRF';
and (b) and to ensure that further policy reforms will lead to equitable and sustainable socio-economic
outcomes. It will finance the technical assistance required to facilitate real property rights knowledge
management, and to prepare sound legal and regulatory reform proposals. Topical areas include inter-
institutional coordination in a decentralized governance framework, access to affordable land, land use
planning for municipalities, and the linkages between real property rights institutions and the financial
and housing sectors.

The target groups would be officials of all the agencies involved in property rights recognition and
protection, users of such agencies, and qualified groups of civil society and the private sector. As a result,
an appropriate policy framework for property rights recognition and protection will be developed. The
inputs would be technical assistance for a multi-sectoral commission, diagnostic socio-economic studies,
consensus-building and drafting of legal and regulatory reforms. The outputs are streamlined policies
reflected in laws and regulations, improved capacity to develop cross-sectoral policies, and increased
awarenessof the linkages between poverty, land and housing issues.

2.       DecentralizedFormalization and Cadastre Services ProvisionComponent

The objective of this component i s to provide formalization and cadastre services inurban and peri-urban
areas in the territory of ParticipatingMunicipalities, with the technical assistance of COFOPRI, through
activities: (a) adapted to the diverse needs of informal owners; (b)justified in cost-benefit terms; and (c)
involving capacity-building for Provincial and District Municipalities. The Project will continue
promoting administrative simplification to recognize and protect property rights; only to the extent that
formal rules interact with social reality and reduce transaction costs, will GoP be able to avoid reversion
to informality.    It will comprise the following subcomponents: planning of training activities by
COFOPRI, capacity-building and technical assistance for local governments on formalization services,
and capacity-building and technical assistance for local governments on cadastre services, and
supervision of capacity-buildingactivities by COFOPRI.

The target groups are the employees of COFOPRI, and Participating Provincial and District
Municipalities, and the beneficiaries of formalization and cadastre services. As a result, 144 Provincial
Municipalities will conduct formalization processes and 427 District Municipalities will develop and
operate real property cadastres. The inputs to the component include temporary technical and auxiliary
staff, computer hardwarehoftware, and training of staff of COFOPRI and the Participating Municipalities
(both "learning by doing" and structured training). The output i s about 536,000 properties cadastred, and
about 471,000titles issued.

3.       Registry Services Provision Component

The objective of this component i s to support the integration of real property data and the establishment of
the national cadastre system in SUNARP-RPto improve: (a) the quality of real property registry services;
and (b) access for the Peruvian population. This component supports SUNARP's real property registry
information systemand real property demarcation activities.

Employees of SUNARP-RP and IGN as well as the users of registry-cadastre services constitute the
target group. The result of this component i s an improved ratio of cosdquality of registry services, and
instruments to support equitable access to registry services. The inputs to the component are investments
in computerized systems for the registry system, and a modern geodesic network, as well as training of


                                                  9

SUNARP-RP staff and users, and technical services. Expected outputs include more effective and
efficient registration systems (including greater coverage and access), reduced transaction costs and,
higher user satisfaction.

4.       FormalizationBenefitsDisseminationComponent

The objective of this component is to support the economic utilization of formal property rightsand foster
real property-related economic activity in Project areas. Specific goals are: (a) providing practical
information on the linkage between registration and access to credit as a tool for individual
empowerment; (b) reducing information gaps between formalized owners, and credit providers; (c)
understanding real estate markets in marginal areas in order to identify measures to encourage and
facilitate real property transactions; and (d) developing strategic alliances among the public and private
sectors to promote business development and property respect in Project areas.

Formalization beneficiaries and staff of financial institutions and Participating Municipalities will
constitute the target group. As a result, beneficiaries will achieve enhanced access to productive
investments.      The inputs to the component are technical assistance, seminars, workshops,
communications and educational tools, and software development. Expected outputs are increased
registry utilization and property respect, reduced transaction costs, enhanced access to financial services
for formalization beneficiaries, consolidation of COFOPRI's institutional role as facilitator/advocate of
investmendcredit informalized areas.

5.       ProjectManagement,MonitoringandEvaluation

The objective of this component i s to achieve successful Project implementation. It supports: (a) standard
Project coordination; and (b) specific monitoring and evaluation activities, like (i)  assessments of the
transparency and accountability framework of COFOPRI and SUNARP-RP, including reviews of
outreach and disclosure procedures, beneficiary selection mechanisms, and appropriateness of
communications and educational tools; and (ii)       evaluation of socio-economic outcomes, through: (A)
continuous follow-up of poverty indicators in formalized areas; (B) assessment of market mobilization of
real property rights in terms of transaction numbers and prices, credit and investment directed to
formalized properties; and (C)review of the impact of Project communications and educational activities
interms of knowledgegains and behaviors changesinindividuals andcommunities.

One of the main challenges of Project design was to preserve a pro-poor focus as well as the "good will
capital" developed under the UPRP while ensuring that the economic benefits expected from
formalizatiodcadastre materialize. To this end, an incentive framework was developed that specified the
interests of the various stakeholders and how the Project may address them through specific activities.

To engage "inside" and "outside" interest groups in a productive dialogue and commit champions that can
exercise a positive leverage on key institutions (COFOPRI-SUNARP-Notaries), Component 1 requires
the direct leadership of MEF- Ministry of Justice (MINJUS). "Outside" groups actively involved in the
process will include: small and medium enterprises, municipal governments, housing agencies, credit
providers and formalized settlement leaders, NGOs established for the protection of property rights, etc.
An Advisory Committeewill be established duringProject implementation.

The Project will also generate incentives for low-income groups (access to investment and credit services)
through Component 4 so as to include them into a virtuous circle and counteract incentives to revert into
 informality. In order to discourage regression to informality, specific research will be conducted under
 Component 1in order to better understand why some formalized groups regress to informality and some
 do not; the results obtained will serve to fine-tune the incentive framework duringimplementation.


                                                   10

                                Table 3. Criteria for Selection of Components

    Component               Incentive for Reform                Strategic Relevance        Reform Stakeholders
1.Comprehensive      'Citizensdemands for                 Since reformshave to          MINJUS.
RealProperty Rights   recognitiodprotectionof real        overcomeopposing vested       MEF.
Policies              propertyrights.                     interests,consensus-building  Small- andmedium- sized
                     .GoP's  interest in respondingto     will helppolicy-makersto      :nterprises.
                      these demands in a timely and       gather support.               Municipal governments.
                      effectivemanner.                                                  Housingagencies.
                                                                                        Credit providers.
                                                                                        Informal possessors' leaders.
                                                                                        NGOs.
2. Decentralized    .Potentialbeneficiariesdemandfor      Decentralizationimplies       COFOPRI.
Formalizationand      landandhousing.                     changes within the State      Municipal governments.
Cadastre Services    .Institutionalstrengtheningof key    apparatus to improveservice   Informal possessors' leaders.
                      institutionsat the nationalandlocal deliveryat the local level.   NGOs.
                      level.
3. Registry Services .User support for quality/accessible Modem registrylcadastre model SUNARP-RP.
Provision             registrylcadastreservices.          revertsunbalancebetween       Notaries.
Component            .GoP's  interest inrespondingto      privileged areas with easy    Small- and medium-sized
                      these demands in a timely and       access to registry-cadastre   enterprises.
                      effectivemanner.                    servicesand areas deprivedof
                                                          services.
4. Formalization     .Projectbeneficiariesexpect          To promoteamarket-oriented    COFOPRI.
Benefits              enhanced welfare andeconomic        environmentthat generates     Municipal governments.
Dissemination         opportunities.                      further support for reforms   FinancialInstitutions.
                     .Financialinstitutionswishto         from                          Informalpossessors' leaders.
                      developnew products andexpend        stakeholdersheneficiaries.   NGOs.
                      credit markets.


4. Lessons learned and reflected inthe Project design

The following table summarizes the lessons learned from the implementation of the UPRP (1999-2004)
as well as from the Bank's global, regionaland country experience inlandadministration and property
rights projects (Bolivia, Cambodia, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Laos, Nicaragua, Panamaand
Thailand).




                                                        11

                                                       Table 4. LessonsLearned

Lessonslearned                                                         Projectdesign

Property rights issues are politically sensitive and Government This Project will benefit from a high-level of commitment by GoP, as
commitment       i s critical   during    Project    preparation   and was reflected in the implementation of the UPRP, the approval of the
implementation. This commitment should be translated into specific laws for registry unification, cadastre system, and decentralized
actions like the support for changes in laws and regulations, and the formalization, and the signing of the Cooperation Agreements. Project
establishment of inter-institutional arrangements. A definite legal approachhas also received support from the economic teams of the main
framework is not required from the beginning; a flexible approach i s  presidential candidatesfor the 2006 election.
preferred to incorporate lessons from implementation into laws and
regulations.

In-depth analvtical work is needed to ensure high quality in the Extensiveanalytical work conducted under the UPRP was complemented
design of a comprehensive policy framework for property rights that during project preparation and will be continued under Component 1. On
overcomes traditional geographical or functional subdivisions such basis, the Project will develop a policy framework for
(urban, rural).                                                        formalizatiodcadastre that is consistent with a long-term vision of
                                                                       property rights in Peru.
                                                                    ~


Security of property rights i s a public good and its protection and The UPRP supported the development of coordination mechanisms for
promotion requires broad consensus-building about the proposed land-related institutions.           The proposed Project strengthens capacity
policy reforms, to show their economic and social benefits, and building at all levels (institutional, CSO stakeholders) encouraging public
establish alliances with stakeholders, giving them voice. Massive debate on land policies (Component 1). An Advisory Committee will
formalization organizes communities so they can be more assure broad participation and consultation throughout Project
demanding of transparency and accountability from public agencies.     implementation within a framework stressing institutional transparency
                                                                       and accountability.

To achieve long-term sustainability, projects dealing with property The Project will: (a) support the development of a legal and regulatory
rights should require a supportive legal and regulaton, framework framework under Component 1 (including clarification of institutional
that reflects protection and promotion policies, and fosters responsibilities); and (b) provide institutionalstrengthening and capacity-
institutionalcapabilities to enforce them.                             building under Components 2 and 3.

A single formalization stratea developed at the national level but Under         Component       2   COFOPRI         will  develop     a   national
implemented at the municipal level will: (a) facilitate a seamless formalizatiodcadastre strategy based on UPRP's experience, and will
treatment of technical issues across Municipalities; and (b) support help Provincial and District Municipalities implement such strategy. The
institutional strengthening at the municipal level with the assistance profile, pre-feasibility and feasibility studies required under the Peruvian
of national agencies                                                   National Investment System have determined the least-cost alternative
                                                                       for this systematic approach.
                                                                                                                             ~~


Close    functional   connection    between formalizatiodcadastres Component 2 will help COFOPRI to adopt a national formalization
requires a svstemic amroach involving multiple agencies; focusing strategy that builds on UPRP's experience and is aimed at working with
on improving a single function or strengthening only one agency Provincial Municipalities on formalization and helping Districl
would not lead to the desired outcomes.                                Municipalities to establish and operate cadastres. Under Component 3 the
                                                                       Project will provide the technical assistance for SUNARP-RPto establish
                                                                       a unified national registrykadastre system.

Although a single agency is preferred for registry and cadastre The Project will support studies on the cost of the formalizatiodcadastre
standard-setting and information gathering, this public monopoly processes to monitor performance and support institutional transparency
must be accountableto the oublic at large.                             and accountability.

Property rights projects require common technical national standards The national standards for Decentralized Formalization and Cadastre
in order to achieve:        (i)consistent physical-legal technical Services will be developed by COFOPRI under Component 2. The
specifications and procedures that prevent individual and social Project will help SUNARP to adopt the technical standards for the
conflicts; (ii)compatibility of registry/cadastre information systems; unified real property registry and the national integrated cadastre
and (iii)seamless maintenanceof cadastraland registry information.      information system under Component 3.

Facilitatingaccess to property rights is a necessary but not sufficient The Project will not only provide secure property rights to the poor under
precondition to alleviate poverty. For the poor, it is one of many Components 2 and 3 but will also facilitate communication and public
items in a conducive investment climate to leverage their ability to education tools and market-relevant information under Component 4 to
accumulate assets, and accesspublic services and credit markets.        leverage assets to be used for local infrastructure services and credit
                                                                        guarantees.

Monitoring and evaluation is critical because of the pervasive
implications of property rights reform and the need to ensure system evaluation system that ensures participation and consultation of key
effectiveness and sustainability as well as institutional transparency stakeholders on a regular basis. Engagement of beneficiaries and private
and accountability.                                                     sector/civil society stakeholders will be ensured as part of an Advisory
                                                                        Committee     that    confirms   monitoring and evaluation         findings.
                                                                        Appropriate remedial actions will be taken during implementation to




                                                                   12

5. Alternativesconsideredand reasonsfor rejection

Alternative 1: A second UPRP. A follow-up urban land formalization Project along the lines of UPRP
was ruled out becauseit would not sufficiently respond to the new decentralized institutional framework.
Moreover, the new challenges posed by the implementation of the registry unification and the national
cadastre required a new focus on the long-term viability of the registry-cadastre system.

Alternative 2: An access to land and housing project. In order to fully address the causes of informality, a
land and housing access project might be a suitable option. Nevertheless, such a project was not
considered feasible given that GoP was testing two new programs for housing access with the support of
other multilaterals (MZVZVZENDA and Techo Propio). Therefore, it seemed more appropriate to continue
the strategy of the UPRP in selected remnant areas and complement it with a strong policy component,
while the monitoring and evaluation activities provide data on formalityhformality patterns and help to
findcomplementarities with the ongoing land and housinginitiatives.

ProposedChoice. A SIL with a comprehensive approach was deemed the most appropriate tool becauseit
would: (a) address property rights issues for various types of land (recently formalized and traditional
areas); (b) reach the urban poor in the ParticipatingMunicipalities beyond the human settlements tackled
under the UPRP;and (c) allow flexibility for potential adjustments along the road, while broader policies
are formulated and implemented. A single policy approach to' provide land tenure security and fully
address property rights issues inurban and rural areas will be developed under Component 1.

The Project will address broad national policy issues while gradually advancing formalization work on
the ground. Geographical distribution will be balanced so as to focus activities on economically dynamic
regions (around the Peruvian coastline) while also serving disadvantaged populations in the Sierra. A
demand-based, case-by-case approach to titling was considered but rejected; an area-based systematic
surveying approach i s considered more appropriate since it i s less costly, buildingon existing COFOPRI
expertise, and including previously unresolved areas.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

The development of pro-poor initiatives requires involving the representatives of the poor at the outset.
During Project preparation a multi-disciplinary Bank-GoP team carried out consultations with
representatives of beneficiaries and stakeholders, through a number of structured and semi-structured
interviews, workshops, and focus groups (see Annexes 15, 16 and 17). Benefitingfrom UPRP experience,
a massive public consultation process was not needed, but more focused institutional, social and
communications assessments with the participation of institutions and groups directly involved in the
Project were deemed sufficient. However, because of the broad demand for new policies, debate was
encouraged among high-level GoP officials (at the national and municipal levels), representatives of the
private sector and civil society to agree on a basic Project framework duringtwo workshops (March and
December 2004)" and the preparation of a background policy paper (June 2004).12 For the pre-feasibility
and feasibility studies, two national surveys of informal possessions and municipalities were conducted
(February and March 2005).13

   Foros Ttcnicos Ltda., "Public policy on legal security of property rights inPer6 - Summary of workshop results",
Lima, March 2004; and ForosT6cnicos Ltda, "Real Property Rights Consolidation - Summary of workshop results",
Lima, December2004.
 12Terradigm, "Strategy Paper on Increasingthe Security of Property Rights inthe Republic of Peru", June, 2004.
 l3APOYO consultoria, "Estudio de Pre-factibilidad para el Proyectode Consolidaci6n de 10s Derechosde
PropiedadInmueble", Final Report, November 2005.

                                                    13

During Project implementation, stakeholder participation will be essential. Mechanisms for effective
participation will include: (i)at the national level, an Advisory Committee with CSOs' representatives
will oversee Project implementation. The Advisory Committee will include experts in pro-poor policies,
urban development, and access to land and housing issues. The Terms of Reference (TORS), curriculum
vitae (CVs) will be acceptable to the Bank, and the selection of the Advisory Committee will follow
transparent and competitive procedures satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii)      at the municipal level, the
Participation Agreements will establish specific participatory mechanisms to promote stakeholder
involvement in periodic consultation, information dissemination.

Participatory techniques involving stakeholders will be employed in the design of comprehensive policies
under Component 1 and in the implementation of the formalization/cadastre/registry activities under
Components 2 and 3. The viewpoints of municipal governments, the private sector and CSOs will be
sought on regular basis. SUNARP, COFOPRI and municipal authorities will provide information and
contribute to problem-solving, while community leaders and organizations provide feedback on the
barriers for access to property rights services and propose solutions. Community leaders will also
facilitate  formalization by organizing community            meetings,    preceding COFOPRI-Provincial
Municipalities door-to-door collection of relevant information. The Project also benefits from strong
donor coordination.     Representatives of the IADB-financed PETT and bilateral donors (Canada,
Germany, Spain) have participated in the project preparation workshops. The results of major studies
under the UPRP and additional studies conducted duringProject preparation have also been shared with
these donors.                                                                                  ,

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements (see Annex 6)

a. ImplementationPeriod. The Loan i s expected to become effective by June 2006 and the Project will be
implemented over a five year period (through June 30,201 1).

b. Implementing Agency. This Project will be carried out by COFOPRI under a Subsidiary Agreement
with MEF. Components 1 and 4 will be the sole responsibility of COFOPRI, while responsibility for
Component 2 will be shared with Participating Municipalities under Participation Agreements, and the
responsibility for Component 3 will be shared with SUNARP and IGN under Cooperation Agreements.
COFOPRI will be responsible for overall Project management, monitoring and evaluation (Component
 5).

 c. Implementation Arrangements. The close link between the mandate of COFOPRI and SUNARP (both
under the jurisdiction of MINJUS), and the experience of the UPRP suggest that the substance of the
 implementation arrangements established under the UPRP should be maintained. Cooperation
 Agreements will be entered into between COFOPRI, SUNARP and IGN to determine the functions and
 responsibilities of each agency and their relationship with PCU. Participation Agreements will be entered
 into between COFOPRI, and Provincial and District Municipalities in selected areas in connection with
 the execution of Component 2. These agreements will specify the role and responsibilities of COFOPRI
 and each municipality (according to their different levels of institutional capacity) and the resources each
 will contribute to the common endeavor, including the periodic maintenance of the registry-cadastre
 system, and the strengthening of the municipality technical capacity.

 Under the Loan Agreement, a Project Steering Committee with representatives from MEF, MINJUS,
 COFOPRI, IGN, SUNARP, MEF and civil society will be responsible for overall Project supervision
 including: (a) a approval of each Annual Operating Plan and any modification thereof; (b) review of
 Project implementation audits and reports; and (c) responsibility for the preparation of the short list for
 the selection of key staff for PCU under competitive and transparent procedures. The Bank will review


                                                  14

the qualifications and experience of the individuals inthe short list and the procedures followed for their
selection. A Project Management Committee will be responsible for supervision of the PCU and overall
management of the Project, including representatives of COFOPRI, SUNARP and IGN. An Advisory
Committee, comprising representativesof the private sector, civil society, and academic institutions, will
provide regular feedback on the performance indicators. Under the ParticipationAgreements, a local task
force comprising representatives of COFOPRI and Participating Municipalities will have field-level
implementation responsibilities for formalization, and the establishment and operation of real property
cadastres.

3. Monitoring andevaluation of outcomeshesults

The PCU will carry out monitoring and evaluation, and report to the Project Management Committee.
Periodically, it will also meet with the Advisory Committee to receive feedback on outcome indicators.
The Advisory Committee will include participation of CSOs. A combination of ex ante and ex post
monitoring will be used as provided by the Loan Agreement. Relevant instruments will include annual
operating plans, progress reports for achieving and monitoring results indicators (see Annex 3), an
independent impact evaluation and user surveys. Monitoring and evaluation results so vetted will feed
back into COFOPRI-SUNARP decision-making to improve performance, and will serve as the basis for
discussions of the Project Management Committee.

Buildingon the systems developed under the UPRP, PCU will have a small monitoring and evaluation
team to collect and analyze day-to-day Project data, as well as prepare periodic reports on intermediate
results and outcomes.         The primary sources of Project data will be: (i)reports from
COFOPRUSUNARP's technical teams, including data on the status of formalization and cadastre
services; (ii) semi-annual progress reports and annual financial statements of COFOPRIISUNARP; and
(iii) specially commissioned studies and surveys (e.g., follow-up of panel data surveys of 2000 and 2004,
user satisfaction survey, real property market assessments, poverty reduction impact evaluations). Real
property-related information will be obtained through SUNARP and COFOPRI systems and combined
with data of municipal cadastres. Periodic reporting by PCU will be accessible, mostly online, to
Participating Municipalities, CSOs and the general public. Specifically, the monitoring and evaluation
system will cover the indicators inAnnex 3.

4. Sustainability

GoP i s fully committed with the Project, and explicitly requested the Bank to include the Project in the
CAS as a highpriority item@e., inthe base case). Moreover, duringProject preparation Congress passed
landmark legislation consistent with Project objectives, including: (a) the National Integrated Cadastre
System Law that allows the full-fledged integration of physical and legal information; and (b) the
Formalization Law that transfers to Provincial Municipalities the responsibility for formalization and
entrusts COFOPRI with the technical assistance for implementation. The Project will assist GoP in
ensuring that the consolidation of the new integrated policy framework for real property rightstakes place
through: (a) a decentralized institutional model that enhances the coordination and technology transfer
between COFOPRI and Provincial/District Municipalities; (b) the strengthening of SUNARP through
efficiency gains as well as effective transparency and accountability; and (c) the existence of incentives to
subsequent registration through a combination o f (a) the development of active land markets based on
formal titles; (b) low transaction costs and high-quality and efficient registration services; and (c) the
sharing of credit supporting information.

Financial sustainability of the Project i s expected as Project costs will be compensated by improved
managerial capacity in COFOPRUSUNARP and the Participating Municipalities, generating fiscal
savings and efficiency gains, including higher effectiveness and transparency in the management of the


                                                15

real property registry/cadastre system, and increased taxpayer compliance at the municipal level.
Institutionalsustainability will be achieved through a focus on enhancedcoordination, through the Project
Steering, Management and Advisory Committees that will avoid any fragmentation/duplicationof efforts
among GoP agencies involved in property rights issues. Technical sustainability will be enhanced
through the institutional strengthening and capacity-building providedunder Components 2 and 3. Social
sustainability will be promoted through a highly participatory approach at all Project stages, including
monitoring and evaluation instruments under Component 5. To enhance overall Project sustainability,
specific activities have been included: (a) consensus-building under subcomponent 1.2 to create a
common vision and mission, a sense of urgency for reforms and stakeholder engagement; and (b)
communications and social education under subcomponent 4.1 to reduce resistance to change.

5. Critical risksand possible controversial aspects




   I                                                                                                       I

 To mitigate the risks detailed below, Project design has been tailored to respond closely to GoP's specific
 requests for support and to take advantage of a positive momentum for further property rights reforms.
 First,there is a growing demand for new ways to generate revenue inthe public sector, particularly at the
 municipal level. Second, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers (PCM), as well as MEF, and
 MINJUS are committed to support the proposed reforms.             The Project has been reviewed by the
 Investment Project Office of PCM and the Investment Office of MEF, and MINJUS has confirmed its
 leadership of this initiative by participating in several preparation missions. The commitment of the
 municipal governments i s confirmed by the signature of 101 Participation Agreements between
 COFOPRI and Provincial Municipalities as of November 30,2005.




                                                  16

                                             Table 5. Risk Janagement
                   Risk                       Risk Rating                   RiskMinimizationMeasure

ain        the adoption of the legal and      Substantial  lomponent 1 supports socially inclusive processes for the
,egulatory instruments developed under                     Ievelopment of the legal and regulatoryframework that should
Zomponent 1.                                               Cenerate a solid constituency for reform and mechanisms for
                                                           :onsensus-building among institutions belonging to different
                                                            evels of Government; consultationwith the economic teams of
                                                            he main presidential candidates have also shown support for
                                                            hese initiatives. This component will begin with informal
                                                            :onsultations amongkey stakeholdersto generateconsensus.
lormotiodooliticization in the selection of   Substantial   'roject formalization procedures are transparent and inclusive.
 itlingbeneficiariesunder Component 3.                     hey enable the monitoringof beneficiaryselectionby multiple
                                                            stakeholders at the local level. As in the case of the UPRP,
                                                            standard safeguards against politicization will be included
                                                           'prohibition of public delivery of tittles, social control
                                                            nechanisms).     T h i sProject includes a monitoring and
                                                            :valuation system to ensure information transparency and
                                                            nstitutional accountability. Component 1 will seek to find
                                                           iffordable housing options to reduce the demand for land
                                                           invasions.
Moral hazard, i.e.     the generation of      Substantial  Deadline imposed for any COFOPRI formalization activity
Jerverse incentives for further invasions in               under current legislation (only for informal possessionsexisting
:he expectation of such invasions being                    by December 31, 2001) andpropertyrespectactivitiesincluded
formalized.                                                incomponent4. ParticipationAgreements with Municipalities
                                                            will determine specific areas that are eligible for formalization.
[nsufficientaccess to credit to enhance the   Substantial   The communicationsand social education, and market-relevant
livelihood of the beneficiaries under                       information dissemination activities of Component 4 are
Component4.                                                designed to mitigate this risk. Financial institutions will be
                                                            contactedto meet projectbeneficiaries.
Uncertain urogress of the decentralization     Moderate     Other Bank-supported initiatives (DCDPLs, Descentralization
process.                                                   TALs) allow close monitoringlevaluation of the overall
                                                           decentralizationprocess.

Vested    interests  resist   the   reforms    Moderate     StrongGoP support for the reforms and widespread ownership
(includingGoP agencies at the nationaland                   among key stakeholders under Component 1.               To detect
Local levels). Limited inter-institutional                  potentialrisk of capture by interest groups, the monitoring and
coordination, demand-supply mismatch,                       evaluation system will follow up institutional accountability
anddelayedapprovalof key reforms.                           indicators with feedback from an Advisory Committee
                                                            including representatives of institutional stakeholders and
                                                            CSOs that will provideoverallguidanceand support.
SUNARP/COFOPRI apolitical, technical           Moderate     Comprehensivereal property rights policiesdeveloped through
status impaired.                                            broad consensus-buildingin coordination with other national
                                                            and local agencies under Component 1 reduce the risk of
                                                            capture by interest groups, as well as effective participationand
                                                            consultationmechanismsunder Component 5.
Weakened aualitv       control of     titling     Low       Cutting-edge technology, continuous capacity building and
orocedures bv COFOPRI and registration
                                   -                        strong externaloversightdevelopedunderComponents 2 and4.
proceduresb; SUNARP-RP.
SUNARP's         financial     sustainabilit)   Moderate    SUNARP's arrangements for managerial autonomy and
threatened.                                                 accountability, and full cost-recovery policieswill be supported
                                                            under Component 3.
~
Titling in urban and peri-urban areas           Moderate    Capacity-building of municipal authoritiesand specialized task
encountersmore difficulties than expected.                  forces supportedby COFOPRIunder Component 3.
OverallRisk Rating                             Substantial
Risk Rating- H(High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M(N lest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)




                                                       17

A Project that provides titles to the poor has a highpolitical profile. Grantingproperty rightsmay beused
as political currency or may generate a temporal hazard environment as described above. Specific rules
were successfully tested under the UPRP to avoid this (prohibition of public delivery of titles, social
control mechanisms, and formalization time bar). The Project will continue using these devices as well as
the mechanisms for property rights recognition based on technical criteria. The Project will also support
legal and regulatory changes to ensure reduced transaction costs and will focus on cost-effective registry-
cadastre technology. This is a substantial risk - high reward Project that goes beyond the results and
impacts of the UPRP and would advance a more coordinated process with relevant institutions to ensure
the consolidation of real property rights institutions and systems.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancial analyses

Economic and financial analyses have indicated that the Project i s a sound investment for Peru when
compared with alternatives. The Net Present Value (NPV) i s estimated to be around US$ 72.6 million,
and the Internal Rate of Returnaround 20% (see Annex 9).

a.       Economic Analysis. The base-line provided by the UPRP allowed determining total discounted
benefits and costs. Benefits were estimated on the basis of incremental property value due to
formalization (setting aside the impact of other variables like construction and location features,
alternative uses of property, family socio-economic characteristics, etc.).              14
                                                                                          Calculations were based on
coverage projections under the Project and conservative assumptions in terms of incremental benefit
flows. A sensitivity analysis was conducted and showed that even with a benefits reduction of up to 75%
Projectreturns were still significant.

b.       Financial Analvsis. A financial analysis showed that the costs of the registry-cadastre component
would be compensated by increased SUNARP and District Municipality revenues for registration fees
and municipal property tax. A preferential registration tariff for recently formalized properties was
developed under the UPRP to reduce the risk of reversion into informality. Higher property tax revenues
are also expected at the level of Municipalities as a result of the establishment and operation of real
property cadastres. 15

Substantial financial benefits are expected as a result of the Project. The Project will have a positive fiscal
impact becauseunder the registry services provision component SUNARP will collect user fees, based on
standard tariffs. These user fees should increase total SUNARP revenues from the registration of
subsequentproperty transactions by approximately US$2 million inNPV terms.




l4Increased property value due to formalization is a summary indicator of the capitalized value of three major types
of benefits associatedwith formalization: improved investment incentives, marketability, and ability to use the
property as collateral for loans. Estimating the magnitudes o f these expected increases was a complex problemfor a
national program involving a heterogeneous set of properties. A wide range of factors influences property values -
location, access to public services, size, value of construction, alternative use o f the property -each of which
interacts with tenure status. Controlling for these factors, the difference in value between similar formalized and
informal properties was considered a good indicator of the economic benefit of formalization (see Annex 9, pg. 40-
41).
l5  Improvements in municipal tax administration are being supported under the Decentralization and
Competitiveness Development Policy Loans (DCDPLs) that include triggers related to the full-fledged
implementation of SIAF-GL.

                                                       18

2. Technical

The technical analysis i s based on prior in-depth analytical work conducted under the UPRP (see Annex
18) and reflects best international practice, including risk mitigation strategies. The experience of the
UPRPhas shown that there are two major impediments to security of property rights inPeru: (a) property
rights information is not completely reliable because registry information is not linked to cadastral
information; and (b) although COFOPRI and SUNARP have conducted successful modernization
initiatives, Municipalities need to catch up. Scarcity of trained staff and appropriate technology as well as
cumbersome processes limit the Municipalities ability to title or to establish and operate a cadastre. The
Project thus faces two major technical challenges: (a) developing a single national formalization strategy
that provides the necessary technical assistance and technology transfer to Provincial and District
Municipalities; and (b) implementing a large scale registry-cadastre modernization initiative that allows
the entire country to move from the traditional registry systemto a modem geo-referenced system.

Project design incorporates strategies to address these technical challenges: (a) streamlined and
participatory formalization processes based on UPRP experience that comprise: (i)          systematic parcel-
based field surveys, including comparison of information on every parcel surveyed in the field with
available registry and cadastre data; (ii)parcels' formalization that include rectification of previous titles,
conflict resolution through non-judicial mechanisms, and public oversight; and (iii)institutional
strengthening and training of Provincial and District Municipalities to ensure quality and sustainability;
and (b) modem ICT infrastructure, including innovative systems that provide accessible and efficient
registry services.

These strategies have specific advantages for the Project: (a) reliance on objective decision making on
formalizatiodcadastre based on systematic comparison of field data and documentary data; and (b)
effective separation of the field surveyhitle search steps from titlinghegistration steps to prevent
bottlenecks generated by unresolved issues. The UPRP developed detailed operational manuals and
effective quality control mechanisms that will be adapted to Project needs. Formalization methodology
will continue to incorporate key social dimensions such as gender equality and social inclusion, and a
communications strategy.

Given the complexity of the requiredgeodesic network for the registry services provision component, the
Project will finance a strategic ICT master plan that comprises the required hardware and 'software. The
master plan will include cutting-edge technology to provide registryhadastre services through the web
based on international standards. Resources will be allocated to train COFOPRYSUNARP, and the
ParticipatingMunicipalities staff on the ICT platform. Partnerships will be established with the Notaries
and Lawyers Associations, and local universities and think tanks to assist in the effective utilization of
ICT. The Bank will carry out periodic reviews to monitor ICT efficiency, the effectiveness of the
formalizatiodcadastre processes, and the progress of the institutional strengthening.

3. Fiduciary

 a.       Procurement issues:

PCU will follow standard Bank procedures for Project procurement. A five year Procurement Plan has
been reviewed and approved by the Bank. Specific procedures for procurement have been incorporated
 into the legal documents and the Operational Manual. Procurement would include consultant services,
 training and goods (See Annex 8 for details).




                                                  19

b.       Financial management issues:

During Project appraisal the Bank confirmed that PCU has adopted appropriate planning, budgeting,
accounting and reporting systems. An action plan to upgrade financial management systems was
approved and should be finalized before effectiveness (See Annex 7 for details).

4. Social

a.       Benefits and target population

Secured property rights are not only relevant for economic growth but also critical for poverty reduction
because: (a) the lack of property rights excludes the poor from economic opportunities. Informal land and
housing markets may have some benefits to the poor to the extent that they do not have to conform to
restrictive regulations (property taxes, transfer charges) but also involves high costs that offset the
benefits (tenure insecurity that requires physicalpresence or illegal payments); (b) titling facilitates access
to credit, given that the property can be used as collateral. A significant increase in access to formal credit
as a result of the UPRP has been validated by official and private sources (see Annex 9); and (c)
ownership plays a key role as a social protectionsubstitute and source of self-employment. As inthe case
of the UPRP, this Project will benefit areas where the population will gain greater access to property-
related services and greater security of tenure. Most of the population targeted within the Project area of
component 3 i s poor (42.1% of the urban population, and 77.1% of the ruralpopulation are poor)

Benefits: The consolidation of an appropriate framework for property rights in Peru will have significant
economic and social benefits: (a) Economic: UPRP has shown that greater ownership security allows a
more efficient property use reflected in higher property values. Higher efficiency also comes from greater
investments in the property andor the use, of property in market transactions, including sales or
mortgages; and (b) Social: Property formalization i s a key element of an inclusion policy that allows
previously excluded populations to gain access to better legal protection, public utilities, and State
services. As evidenced by the UPRP, formalizing property ownership will secure women's assets vis-8-
vis men's under the law (see Annex 16).

Target Population: The Project will increase the quality of life of the families living on the properties
targeted by the Decentralized Formalization and Cadastre Services component. The National Poverty
Map has been utilized to determine the target areas. This will cover around 2.7 million people,
representing about 10% of the total population. Specific Project areas have been identified using
eligibility criteria that take into account population density, poverty levels, economic potential (including
expanding market for economic activities like credit and construction) and cost-benefit ratio. To apply for
project support under participation agreements, Municipalities will have to commit to specific
accountability and efficiency standards including: (a) establishment of adequate institutions for
formalization and cadastre purposes, through transparent and competitive selection of human resources;
(b) adoption of appropriate administration procedures, including checks and balances for transparency
and accountability purposes; (c) selection of suitable ICT systems to provide efficient and homogeneous
services; and (d) avoidance of disincentives for         formalization, including tax raising or collection
practices. These areas include the "Poverty Triangle" section of the country (Ayacucho, Huancavelica and
Apurimac), and the Departments of Tumbes, Puno, Tacna, Piura and Cajamarca that also record
 significant levels of poverty.

b.        Key social issues relevant to the Proiect objectives, and Proiect's social development outcomes.

A participatory social assessment for the Project was carried out during Project preparation (see Annex
 16) to: (i)  identify and characterize key local stakeholders (local CSOs representing the interests of


                                                  20

specific  social groups, like women and housing associations); (ii)        identify possible social risks and
impacts; (iii) analyze key socio-economic factors; and (iv) identify the structure of informal relations
around property rights among key local stakeholders. The assessment included in-depth interviews and
focus groups inProject areas.

Security of ownership i s a central concern of informal possessiondwellers given the weak presence of the
State in these areas.       These communities usually have a considerable cohesion and self-rule.
Neighborhood organizations provide some basic services, resolve disputes, and even administer property
rights. In parallel to these organizations, informal possessions have also witnessed the growth of
functional groups (community kitchens, mothers' clubs, parents' associations, sports clubs, etc.),
normally runby women and often providing safety nets for poor people.

The UPRP affected communities in different ways. In some cases, completion of the titling process
weakened the role of neighborhood organization leaders with political associations. In others, it
encouraged the provision of community services. Property formalization i s part of a broader
modernization process, in which formerly excluded people enter into a closer relationship with national
and local governments, and modem markets. Associations formed primarily for ownership access or
protection, face the challenge of evolving into organizations that provide other services or mobilize
resources. As part of the UPRP implementation, inter-disciplinary social assessments (including extensive
consultations) were carried out on the social aspects of formalization for the beneficiary populations in
the 14 targeted Departments. The studies' samples included representatives of populations living on
private and public lands, and the studies' main thematic areas were socio-economic characterization of
beneficiary populations, key factors determining access to property rights (including gender issues), a
typology of landrelated conflicts, participatory mechanisms, and operational recommendations to achieve
Project objectives.  16


Based on the results of the social assessment, the design of this Project will incorporate a periodic socio-
economic monitoring process throughout implementation, supported by participation and consultation
activities that emphasize a high degree of involvement of beneficiary populations in Project
implementation. Socio-economic impacts of property formalization on local communities will be closely
tracked under Component 5 to adopt preventive and mitigation measures vis-%-vis possible adverse
impacts. For instance, as the Project i s expected to work in areas where significant population of
indigenous descent i s present (pen-urban areas of Cusco and Puno) translators will be needed to provide
formalization services in QuechudAymara areas.

5. Environment

Environmental Category: C (No Assessment)

As in the case of the UPRP, the Project will not deal with environmental issues. The design of the
Decentralized Formalization and Cadastre Services component has incorporatedappropriate guidelines in
the Operational Manual to avoid formalization inrisk areas or inor near archeological sites. However, the
Project i s expected to generate favorable impacts from an environmental standpoint under Components 2
and 4 becauseit will support activities that may induce positive behavioral changes among urban dwellers
while no negative impacts are envisaged (for instance, information on risk areas and cultural property
issues).




l6 SASE, "Estudio sobre la Dindmica de 10s Asentamientos Humanos" (Study on the dynamics of Human
Settlements), July 2002; and Paredes, Ursula, et al., "Formalizaci6n de la propiedad urbana en el Perk Cuatro
Historias de Exito" (Urban Property Formalization in Peru: Four Success Stories), COFOPRI, Lima, 2002.

                                                   21

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                  Yes               No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                      [ I              [XI
  Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                 [ I              [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                     [ I              [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                        [ I              [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                         [ I              [XI
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                        [I               [XI
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                          [ I              [XI
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP4.37)                                                    [ I              [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                                      [ I              [XI
  Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                            [ I              [XI

This Project is a follow-up of the UrbanProperty RightsProject (Loan No. SCL-43840-UPRP). Section
E.6 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the UPRP mentioned that the project did not deal with
environmental issues as described and identified by Banks policy, and explained that no involuntary
resettlement would take place. Section 4 of the ICR for the UPRP explained that in the case of possible
riskareas or archeological sites, COFOPRIworked with the agencies incharge (National CultureInstitute
[INC] and National Civil Defense Institute [INDECI]) to ascertain whether formalization could move
forward. In these specific cases, the decision to clear the sites for formalization was taken by INC or
INDECI, as appropriate. Experience with safeguards policies under the UPRP was therefore satisfactory;
the Operational Manualprovedadequateto prevent any potentialenvironmentalor resettlement impact.

As in the case of the UPRP, the proposed Project will not deal with any environmental issue. Property
targetedfor formalization will only be small lots in State-owned land that was invaded before December
31, 2001, in urban and peri-urban areas (Property Formalization Law - Law No. 28391- Art. 1). The
Project will not include the titling of environmentally significant lands (Le., lands for productive use or in
ruralareas) that are governed by separate legislationandtitled under PET".

Followingthe UPRPprecedent, the design of the decentralized formalization component will incorporate
appropriate guidelines to prevent formalization from happening inrisk areas (as mandated by Art. 21 and
22 of Supreme Decree No. 009-99-MTC and Art.18, Supreme Decree No. 013-99-MTC) or in or near
archeological sites (as required by Art. 2.2.2 of Law No. 28391, Art. 1 of Supreme Decree No. 017-98-
PCM and Art. 3 of Supreme Decree No. 046-98-PCM). Furthermore, the law specifically excludes from
formalization land that constitutes a natural habitat (Law No. 28391, Art. 2.2). The Operational Manual
will include sections to screen the above excluded areas out from titling under the project at the earliest
stage of Project area surveying; no major change i s anticipated to the provisions of the Manual for the
UPRP, that were satisfactorily applied.

However, the Project i s expected to generate favorable impacts from an environmental standpoint under
Components 3 and 4 because it will support activities that may induce positive behavioral changes among
urban dwellers that may have positive environmental impact while no negative impacts are envisaged (for
instance, provision of reliable information on risk areas and cultural property issues).

The Project will not trigger OP 4.10 as COFOPRI'S legal framework (Law No. 28391) only allows
formalization of individual informal possessions on State-owned land pursuant to Article 4 of Law No.
26845; demarcation and titling ancestral indigenous lands or natural habitats i s not envisaged under this
Project but under the GEF-financedIndigenous Management of Protected Areas in the Peruvian Amazon
Project. Furthermore, OP 4.10 does not apply because project beneficiaries have lost collective
attachment to their original distinct habitats and ancestral territories and moved into urban and peri-urban


                                                 22

areas. However, the Operational Manual will include provisions to ensure informed consultation and
participation of beneficiaries of indigenous descent in their own language duringthe whole formalization
process. Furthermore, formalization and titling of community and indigenous lands i s the mandate of
PETT andfalls outside thejurisdiction of COFOPRI.

The Project will not trigger OP/BP 4.12 or OPN 11.03 as no involuntary resettlement or impacts on
cultural property will result from Project activities. Involuntary resettlement will not occur because the
Project will only formalize State-owned land as provided by Law No. 28391 (Art. 2.1); the same law
mandates that no privately held or disputed property can be formalized (Law No. 28391, Art. 10). The
Project i s designed to ensure that squatters remain in the lands they already occupy and mobilize that
"dead capital" through market transactions (credit, sales, and mortgages).          Therefore, no physical
displacement will be encouragedor supported under the Project.

However, because State-owned lands in the Project area may contain culturally valuable resources (in
particular around the city of Cusco) in order to prevent the titling of lands supporting these materials, the
Operational Manual will provide that any historic or archeological site within the Project area be
surveyed, and their administration and conservation will be placedunder INCjurisdiction as provided by
Law No. 28391. To ensure that Project activities do not result in unintentional titling of areas of cultural
value, as inthe case of the UPRPinformation on any such lands will be forwarded to INC, and titling will
only be allowed following an official authorization by INC.

Finally, due diligence proceduresfor addressing social issues inthe Project area will be included inthe
revisedOperational Manual.

7. LoanTerms and Conditions

A.      Covenants

(a)     COFOPRI and SUNARP will enter into a Cooperation Agreement that will include the following
responsibilities: maintaining records and accounts adequate to reflect the operations, resources and
expenditures with respect to their respective parts of the Project; establishing the Steering Committee, the
Management Committee and the Advisory Committee; and complying with the provisions of the
Operational Manual, the Annual Operation Plans and the Procurement Plan.

(b)     COFOPRI and IGN will enter into a Cooperation Agreement that will include the responsibility
of IGN to operate and maintain the geodesic network, and the obligation of IGN to collaborate with
COFOPRI inthe procurement of the goods and consultants' services for Component 3 of the Project.

(c)     COFOPRI will enter into Participation Agreements with Provincial Municipalities or District
Municipalities for the purposes of Component 2 of the Project stipulating the roles, responsibilities and
obligations of the Municipalities and ensuring their participation in the implementation of the Project.
These agreements will oblige the Municipalities to allow the participation of community-based
organizations in the formalization process, and to allocate appropriate resources for Project
implementation purposes on a timely basis; and will oblige COFOPRI to inform the Municipalities about
Project-financed activities, provide technical assistance and capacity-building to the Municipalities for
their institutional strengthening for the purposes of formalization processes, and evaluate jointly with the
Municipalities the results of Project-financed activities. Both COFOPRI and the Provincial Municipalities
will develop and implement Action Plans to strengthen the capacity of the Participating Municipalities to
manage their formalization and cadastre programs, as well as to exchange information with other cadastre
generating agencies.



                                                 23

(d)     A Steering Committee will be responsible for general project supervision.             A Management
Committee will be responsible for the overall Project management. An Advisory Committee, comprising
stake holder representatives, including the private sector, civil society, universities, and think thanks, will
provide regular feedback on performance indicators.

(e)     The Project Coordination Unit (PCU), within COFOPRI, will be responsible for day-to-day
Project coordination.   Key staff of the PCU will be selected through competitive and transparent
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The PCU will prepare the Annual Operation Plan for each year,
specifying the activities to be financed, the implementation schedule, and the required financial and
human resources.

(f)     COFOPRI will issue an Operational Manual, which will contain: the Project's institutionalsetup;
disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting procedures; procurement responsibilities, processesand
internal controls; and monitoring and evaluation plans for the Project, including a list of the Participating
Municipalities and the Performance Indicators.

(g)     To assess overall Project economic, social and environmental impact, COFOPRI will contract an
impact evaluation study with independent consultants, by December 31,2009.

(h)     Not later than November of each year of Project implementation, COFOPRI will hold a Project
Annual Review with the Bank in which it will report on Project execution's progress in the achievement
of its objective; performance of the Implementing Agencies; effectiveness of the Participation
Agreements in terms of Municipalities involvement; experience with the rules and procedures set forth in
the Operational Manual; and justification of the investment and institutional proposals for the
implementationof the Project duringthe subsequentyear.

B.      Conditions of Effectiveness

(a)     Subsidiary and Cooperation Agreements signed; and
(b)     Operational Manual approved by the Bank.




                                                24

                              Annex 1: Country andSector Background
                PERU: REAL PROPERTYRIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT


1.-      Country Background: OngoingDecentralizationProcess
         a.      Overall framework
Recent actions to develop a fiscally sound decentralization strategy include a legal framework approved
between 2002 and 2003 that incorporates principles of fiscal and debt sustainability at the sub-national
level: (i) the Framework Law of Decentralization endorses the principle of fiscal neutrality; (ii)the
Organic Law of Decentralization includes the principles of transparency, accountability and responsibility
in terms of borrowing and establishes fiscal rules for regional and local governments; (iii) Law of
                                                                                               the
Regional Governments details exclusive and sharedresponsibilities, and allows the Central Government's
oversight over the Regional Government's finances.
GoP decentralization agendafor the next years seeks to ensure the fiscal and institutional sustainability of
decentralization and enhance the accountability and delivery capacity of sub-national governments by
taking simultaneous actions at national, regional and municipal levels. At the national level, GoP will
further strengthen its capacity in the areas of investment planning, monitoring and evaluation of sub-
national expenditures, and common budgeting and accounting standards for integrated financial
management. At the regional level, GoP will focus on completing the legal and regulatory framework
while gradually advancing transfer of programmatic responsibilities to regional governments. At the
municipal level, GoP will take curative and preventive actions regarding current debt stock of over-
indebted Municipalities. The SIAF-GL module will be a critical element to ensure proper financial
management at the municipal level; it includes a cadastre sub-module that will allow Municipal
Governments to make a proper use of cadastral information for tax purposes (including assessment and
collection).


         b.      DecentralizedFormalization and Cadastre Services
Decentralization issues were tackled under the UPRP.After 2000 formalization activities were carried out
through Provincial Formalization Commissions. Although that system facilitated coordination and
prioritized interventions, it was not successful in transfening know-how to Provincial Municipalities
because of their limited institutional capacity (municipalities were usually not prepared to take over
additional responsibilities and lacked the technical and human resources to that end). Formalization
requires a minimal capacity to ensure quality services under consistent national standards. The
formalization experience of Municipalities prior to the establishment of COFOPRI was not positive
becauseof their limitedinstitutional capacity.
Provincial Municipalities will gradually move to the "driver's seat" of formalization processes inPeru not
only becausethe Municipalities Organic Law and the Formalization Law entrust them with formalization
responsibilities and allows them to receive technical assistance from COFOPRI, but also because: (i)
formalization activities generate expertise in areas like the use of mapping tools and urban land
information systems which are at the core of the urban planning and development functions; and (ii)
urban planning and development responsibilities like land conditioning, zoning, and building control
could be substantially enhanced with the technology transferred under the Project. District Municipalities
will also have a critical role because they will: (A) generate information to update property cadastre
records; (B) support housing alternatives for the poor and promote housing markets; and (C) utilize
cadastral information to increase tax revenues and contribute to the cost of the maintenance of cadastral
information.




                                                   25

Under the Project, decentralization of formalization will proceed via Participation Agreements between
COFOPRI and interested Provincial and District Municipalities. Under the Participation Agreements,
Municipalities will provide (in exchange for formalization and cadastre support) local offices and staff,
vehicles, and room and board for COFOPRI staff temporarily assigned to work with them for local
capacity building. The tax dimension of the cadastre will be closely coordinated with the SIAF-GL
initiative to develop the untappedtax potential of recently formalized areas andtraditional areas.

2.       Sector Background:RealPropertyRights Consolidation

         a.      Coordinated Policy-Making

The main cause of real property informality i s the lack of access to affordable land and housing by the
Peruvian poor. Weak policies have contributed to this problem: (a) lack of transparent mechanisms for
allocating State-owned land; (b) inefficient functioning of real estate markets in poor urban areas; (c)
over-regulated and defective urban development processes. A consistent property rights policy will
requirethejoint efforts of several institutions at the central and subnational levels of government.

The generation of such policies clearly exceeds the role of SUNARP and COFOPRI; however, the two
institutions are ideally positioned to create spaces for policy discussion and to coordinate initiatives that
can be articulated with lower levels of government. An essential element to devise the right policies will
be the availability of an information system capable of providing not only topographic information, but
also socio-economic information about the areas where such policies will apply. The expertise developed
by SUNARP-COFOPRI under the UPRP will support the development of modern policies at a national
level and apply them in municipaljurisdictions.

         b.       Registry Unification

RP establishment meant immediate benefits for users, especially the poorest, as it eliminated duplication
of property registries and allowed them access to a single registry thus eliminating any chance of
discrimination against properties recorded in RPU.A second benefit was the possibility of increasing the
number of registry services access points for the low-income segment of the population. While RPI and
SEPR served the public through 58 and 25 registry offices, respectively, RPU only provided services
through 20 offices. After the merger, SUNARP has complemented the registries network and extended
coverage for the low-income segment by widening the number of registry access points from 20 to 83
offices. With the support of the UPRP, SUNARP advanced RP establishment in the following areas: (a)
interface development between the different software platforms of the property registries merged; and (b)
drafting regulations for proper operation of the merged registries, behind the same front office. The
procedures of the back offices will remain separate untilpilot projects have been finalized.

One of the main objectives of the merger of the old property registries was to retain their strengths while
overcoming their weaknesses. As evidenced in Doing Business in 2005" the Peruvian property registry
system ranks among the top performers in LCR (See Figures No.1, 2 and 3) but there i s still room for
improvement.




 l7Monitoring, Analysis and Policy Unit, Investment Climate Department,World BankGroup, "Doing Businessin
2006: CreatingJobs. Latin AmericdCaribbeanRegion, RegionalProfile", 2006, pp. 15-17

                                                       26

        Figure No.1 Time to Register Property in Latin America




        Figure No.2 Cost to Register Property inLatinAmerica




          3          3                        %            12            15




Figure No.3 Number of steps neededto Register Property inLatinAmerica




                                               Source: Doing Business Database

                                  27

Although there has been significant progress at the normative level (in the recently issued Property
Registry Regulations several of such strengths are reflected), effective implementation will be
challenging, in particular the optimization of registration services and the transformation of RP into a
proactive registry accessible to the poor. The Regulations have also allowed SUNARP to operate 3
mobile units, designed to receive titles for registration inremote areas. These mobile units will expand the
coverage of registrationservices to the neediest sectors by reducing costs for these users.

                                  Figure No.4                                                   Figure No. 5

                                                                                ~



            Registry by title type                                                      Isthe title you own registered?
         (% of those who have a title)                                                        (YOof lots with any title)



 Municipality Title              65.28%        32 05%      2.67%         30%
 Sale contract                   38.45%        59 26%      2.29%         50%                                               Yes
 Allocation Certificate          31.48%        62 96%       5 56%        5%                                                5%
 Other                           34.66%        63.64%       170%         15%




                                                                                     1Source: Household Survey,COFOPRI,2005


W will take into account the needs of recently formalized owners to avoid the traditional obstacles
hindering access to the formal system and, consequently, favoring reversal into informality. Sustainable
property rights reform in Peru depends on the continuous use of W, but high transaction costs, a lack of
registry culture and the prevalence of informal agreements based on family and social networks, compete
with the legal security offered by State Institutions. WU served the needs of low-income populations
through the establishment of a simplified registry system which resulted inlower costs for the final users,
including subsidized registration fees and substitution of public deeds for registration forms. RPU also
introduced technical features that did not exist in the traditional property registries, like a cadastral base
which allows the proper geographical identification of properties thus improving the accuracy of registry
information.

                              Figure No. 6                                                    Figure No. 7


          Do you know which documents are necessaryto register
                       your property title? (% of households)                      Haveyou ever requesteda real propemcertificate
                                                                                         from the Officeof Public Registries?
                                                                                                  (%Of lots)




 50%                           50%


                                 YES
                               0 NO


             Has a title                            Does not havea title

                    Source:Household Survey,COFOPRI,2005                                   Source:HouseholdSurvey, COFOPRl2005




                                                             28


progress in the analysis and integration of cadastral information has been slow. The lack of a cadastral
base (that can support the registry information process) and an effective plot identification system in RPI
and SEPR (which do not contain digitized and geographic information in historical files) generated
overlappingrights and entry duplication.

                                                        Figure No. 9

          II             Conflictsregarding home property
             1                            ("0 of lots)
                                                                      I   %     I          Among theones         I
                                                                                                                 I

                Ownership disputes                                        4.09                                   II
                Boundaries disputes                                       ::::@         1I whomentioned

                Heritage disputes                                                           havingfaced

                Sub-division disputes                                     0.26
                None                                                     87.33          III propertyconflicts,
                                                                                           the most common II
                Total                                                      100          II  were boundaries I
                                                                                            disputes.            I
                                                                                                                 I




                                                        Figure No. 10


                               Overlappingcases during COFOPRI'sformalization work
                                                      (Total 1996-2004)


               Department                 Office               Oveiiappingcases      Annualaverage            %

            Ancash                Huamz                              -----Tm-. ..                  170             1.0
            Arequipa              Arequipa                                30,392  '\,              3,377          20.5
            Ayacucho              Ayacucho                                                           83            0.5
            Huancavelica          Ayacucho                                   200                     22            0.1
            Ica                   Ica                                                                526           3.2
            Piura                 Piura                                                            5,342         32.5
            Pun0                  Arequipa                                                           167           1.0
            Tacna                 Arequipa
            Ucayali               Pucallpa                                                         1,174
            Loreto                Chiclayo
            Lambayeque            Chlclayo                                25,623                   2,847           17.3
            Lima                  UFI                                _---------
                                                                          24,238                   2,693           16.4
                                                                                                16,451             100
                                                                                                    Soutre: COFOPRI




This matter was solved under the UPRP by closing and transferring entries from RPI-SEPR to RPU.
Around 1.8 million records of formalized properties have been based on reliable cadastral surveys
conducted by COFOPRI and maps registered in RPU. Effective registry unification requires the
integration of these records through modem information technologies, under a system in which properties
with or without cadastral support will coexist inthe mid-term.

For instance, under the new System, notaries will be linked with SUNARP-RP in such a way that every
property-related transaction in which a notary is involved should be immediately transmitted to


                                                               30

SUNARP-RPwith a digital signature, through a permanent ICT link. Inareas where such ICT link is not
available, notaries may forward transaction information to SUNARP-RP through other means. The
regulations will define those areas, and the appropriate mechanisms. Making notaries allies of the
National Integrated Cadastre System in order to promote legal security i s a promising approach.
However, it raises concerns in connection with the costhenefit of the ICT link and the digital signature.
That system could start operating in Lima, and major cities like Arequipa and Trujillo, in the near future,
but its implementation in other areas will take additional time and depend on the technical standards
adopted by the regulations which may consider alternative solutions. The cost of an ICT link, the single
cadastre code, and the platform required for a digital signature will be transferred to users. To avoid the
dichotomy legal security vs. accessibility of services that could have a negative influence on the
sustainability of formalization, the Project will review the proposed regulations and recommend
reasonablestrategies for a low-cost mechanism.

In order to implement the System, SUNARP will develop, with Project assistance, geo-referenced
cadastral information maintenance applications integrated at a national level through: (i)integration of the
databases and digitized cartographic sources (RPI, RPU, SEPR and Municipalities [if any]); (ii)
development of appropriate strategies for geographic areas where cartography i s not available; (iii)
generation of plot indexes for RP data which integrates and strengthens the RPI, RPU, and SEPR
searches; (iv) validation of data through the expansion and maintenance of the National Geodetic
Network; and (v) development of a procurement plan for ICT equipment and software required for
cadastral surveys, and interconnection of cadastral data belonging to member institutions of the Cadastre
System. Appropriate technology packages will be developed under the principles of adaptability to
various levels of institutional capacity andupgradeability .

The Project will generate unified cadastral norms to construct a single grid that allows seamless
attachment of data to a common, shared database, through: (i)development of a national standard
cadastral numbering system; (ii)preparation and implementation of a cost-recovery strategy for
maintenance of a geo-referenced based cadastre (work in traditional areas will be conducted on demand
basis, against full cost-recovery fees to be charged to owners); (iii)    design of a training program for
SUNARP, COFOPRI and Municipal staff on cadastre issues; and (iv) dissemination of the new rules and
procedures for cadastral surveying.

         d.      Unfinished Formalization

Unsatisfied Demand.The UPRP focused on urban marginal land and achieved an impressive target of
almost 1.135 million titles issued. However, demand for further formalization services is still high;
approximately 1.4 million properties could be formalized. To serve that demand the mass-scale
formalization model of the UPRP has to be adapted. Therefore, formalization under the Project will be
governed by the following criteria: (i)       impact rather than quantity will determine the design of
formalization strategies; (ii)  cost-effectiveness of the overall formalization process will be maintained;
and (iii)process re-engineering will: (A) improve impact, strengthen community participation, and ensure
cost-benefit; (B) concentrate on the completion of existing areas rather than starting new areas and
leaving existing areas unfinished; and (C) expand into new areas selected on the basis of selected socio-
economic indicators (Cusco, Puno, Cajamarca and Madre de Dios have been already identified).




                                                      31

                         Figure No. 11                                                         Figure No. 12

                                                                                 Total time for the PropertyTitle to be issued
                Institutionsthat receivedpaymentfor property titles                               (VOof homes)
                                (%of titled lots)                *_----__
                                                               _I



             Notary                                               -..___----
                                                                    41 7% ,,:    Less than 1 month                   44.43
       Municipality                                           $
                                                                                 From 1to 3 months                    22.82
    Public registry                                                              From 3 to 6 months
        Facilitator                                                              From 6 to 12 months
HousingAssociation                                                               From 12 monthsto 2 years
             Judge                                                               From 2 to 3 years
              Other                                                              From 3 to 5 years

                   0%         10%        20%       30%          40%       50%    Morethan 5 years

                    Source:Household Survey,COFOPRI,2005                            Source: Household Survey, COFOPRl2005
                                                                                                                                  I


 Under the UPRP, COFOPRI gathered a significant amount of information about areas that were not
 formalized. During Project preparation this information was reviewed and updated to ensure that any
 further assistance of COFOPRI to ParticipatingMunicipalities i s justified in cost-benefit terms." During
 Project design, a small pilot on the feasibility of formalization processes through itinerant brigades, in
 collaboration with Provincial and District Municipalities was carried out. The traditional model of the
 UPRP will be enhancedwith the participation of the private sector and civil society and the definition of a
 specific formalization plan for Participating Municipalities that may include poor and non-poor areas, so
 as to generate cross-subsides for the formalization process, and subsequently for the operation and
 maintenance of a quality municipal cadastre. Alternative formalization models will be considered.
                           Figure No.13      -Decentralized       Formalization ServicesDemand Estimate




  l8Equity considerations will also justify the development of strategies by municipal governments to provide
 alternatives for those who cannot be covered by this Project.

                                                                         32

                                Figure No.14   -Cadastre   Services Demand Estimate

                                                  Population      Cadastral     Effective
                                                  (20041            Units
                        Intervenedareas
                        ANCASH
                        AREQUIPA
                        AYACUCHO
                        CAJAMARCA
                        CALLAO
                        cusco
                        HUANCAVELICA
                        ICA
                        JUNIN
                        LA LIBERTAD
                        LAMBAYEQUE
                        LIMA
                        LORETO
                        MOQUEGUA
                        PASCO
                        PlURA
                        PUNO
                        TACNA
                        TUMBES
                        UCAYALI
                                            Tota
                        NOn-inteNenedareas
                        AMAZONAS                                         98,450        78,521
                        ANCASH                                           95,448        76,127
                        APURIMAC                                        106,292        84,775
                        AREQUIPA                                         11,424         9,111
                        AYACUCHO                                         18,136        14,465
                        CAJAMARCA                                       307,570       245,308
                        CALLAO
                        cusco                                             1,662         1,326
                                                                        262,157       209,088
                        HUANCAVELICA                                     86,064        68,642
                        HUANUCO                                         185,253       147,752
                        ICA                                               2,232         1,780
                        JUNIN                                           144,635       115,357
                        LA LIBERTAD                                      26,531        21,161
                        LAMBAYEQUE                                        6,834         5,451
                        LIMA                                             92,556        73,819
                        LORETO                                           75,441        60,169
                        MADRE DE DlOS                                    23,309        18,591
                        MOQUEGUA                                          1,131           902
                        PASCO                                            34,363        27,407
                        PlURA                                           135,248        107,870
                        PUNO                                            285,370       227,602
                        SAN MARTIN                                      172,821        137,836
                        TACNA                                               350           279
                        TUMBES                                            9.824         7.836
                        UCAYALI
                                            Tot;
                                    General Total


One area of significant potential i s the inclusion of buildings and other constructions in registry records.
Peruvian legislation requires owners to have a separate title for the building (it i s not enough to have a
title on the land). For access to credit purposes, financial institutions prefer as collateral a mortgage deed
that specifies building features because the building value i s usually higher than the land value. The
limited use of the mortgage guarantee may be associated to the lack of buildingregularization. Law No.
27157 established procedures to obtain building regularization that are not affordable for most low-
income owners.




                                                           33

A pilot conducted under the UPRP         l9 has shown the interest among COFOPRI beneficiaries in building
titling and their willingness to pay a cost-recovery fee. In addition to the positive impact on access to
credit, building titling may generate incentives for urban densification through the provision of housing
alternatives via the construction of additional floors that can be rented out or sold to thirdparties securely
only if the building is previously registered. The private sector i s not currently providing this service; a
few companies tried to offer the service at market costs but found that it is not affordable for people
around the poverty line. Consequently, GoP support for such program i s justified, although part of the
ground work could be contracted out to private companies. Regulatory reforms may be required for
procedural simplification and the Project will require a strict cost-benefit ratio inthe initial analysis of the
areas where buildingregularizationcan take place.

Therefore, the feasibility of titling buildingsand other constructions will be assessed under Component 1
through: (i)  analysis of the existing legal framework, including an assessment of the experience under
Law No. 27157; (ii)     definition of the specific information to be incorporated into the registry system; (iii)
selection of mechanisms to conduct field work (simplified processes, systematic or sporadic
formalization, private sector service delivery, etc); (iv) cost-benefit analyses, and cost-recovery policies
on the basis of a definition of public or private assets; and (v) drafting of the requiredlegal or regulatory
reforms. Prior to undertaking mass-scale building titling under Component 2, the following actions will
be taken: (A) determination of cost-recovery responsibilities (municipal governments or private owners);
and (B) review of effective market asset mobilization.

Another area that may deserve a tailor-made approach i s the protection of cultural heritage. Under the
UPRP, COFOPRI detected that due to lack of information about the legal provisions protecting cultural
heritage and lack of appreciation of the value of archeological monuments, a number of housing
associations and human settlements had extended to culturally valuable areas, thereby generating conflicts
with the authorities in charge of the protection of such areas. Effective protection of Peru's cultural
patrimony requires the exercise of the protective powers granted to INC and SBN; with respect to
archeological monuments by Law No. 28296 (General Law of the National Cultural Patrimony). Under
the Project, a proactive strategy for the protection of the cultural patrimony will be generatedjointly with
INC and SBN, and actions will be taken so that the maps and titles corresponding to these archaeological
areas are recorded in RP to ensure that they are effectively preserved. This i s also expected to enhance the
quality of life of the inhabitants in the surrounding areas through tourism-related activities supported by
trainingprograms for settlement inhabitants and municipal authorities.           *'
          e.       Information Barriers

The granting of property titles to beneficiary population was not the only objective of the UPRP;equally
important was to ensure that those titles became catalysts of a market dynamic that would improve the
living conditions of beneficiaries. One of the principal benefits of a property formalization project should
be a more efficient use of properties as a result of recognized rights. This more efficient use of real
property should mean higher prices, increased market transactions and its use as loan collateral. The


l9 Pilot data was obtained from 3 different geographic areas accounting for approximately 750 properties. The pilot
sought to determine the feasibility of this activity in terms of private sector participation and cost allocation (owner,
municipality).
*'Areview     of the Bank's experience in cultural heritage and slum upgrading concluded that cultural heritage is an
essential part of creating sustainable cities. For example, providing communities with the necessary knowledge on
cultural property issues can trigger conservation and cultural activities, which in turn, enhances the potential for
investments in tourism. See, "Cultural Heritage and Slum Upgrading:              World Bank's Experience and Good
Practice", presentation prepared by the Services to the Urban Poor Thematic Group and delivered at MIT, June 13,
2002.


                                                            34

evidence collected under the UPRP (see Annex 17) shows that this not only results in economic benefits
but also generates a series of positive social dynamics, such as greater security, increased social
accountability for improved public services and infrastructure, and strengthened position of women at the
household and community level.


                                                                   Figure No. 15


         Reasonswhy you think a property title brings more                         Reasonswhy you do not think the property title
         home tenure security (O/o of those who think that)                        will bring more home tenure security

          I s a prot&ing document    Can be registeredat                                                     (% of those who not believe)
                                     the property registry                               It doesn't
 Confirms                                                                                miner

  Property
  Rights                                              Serves3% a loan collateral
                                                              as

      32%                                              Does not haveany
                                                       more problems
                                                               3%
                                                       It's usefulfor any
                                                            procedure
                                                              3%

                   Cannot be evicted            Do2% know
                                                   not

                         33O/o
                                                                                                  Source: Household Survey,COFOPRlZOO5
                                      Source:HouseholdSurvey,COFOPRlZW5




                                                                   Figure No. 16

I
        Doyou think a property title offers                                         Do you think you ought to register
              more hometenure security?                                             your propertytitle? (010 of lots)
                       (VOof homes)
                    Don't know

 24%                                                                    No title                     88%                          11%




                                                      Yes
                                                     76%
                                                                        With title                     98%                         4%




                                                                                   0%      20%      40%      60%       80%    100%
I    Source: Household Survey, COFOPRI,2005                                      Source: Household Survey, COFOPRI, 2005




                                                                               35

                                                     Figure No. 17

I     Which do you think are the risksof not registeringthe property title inthe Public Registry?(YOof lots)

                                                14%
                    Do not know
                                               2%                          0 DidNOTregistered

         Cannot build nor expand                                               Registered
                   hislher home


          Not having access to
                  basic services

         Not having a permanent
         domicilewhere helshe
                 can be located

                      Evidion                                                                      64%


                                0%       10%       20%     30%        40%          50%      60%      70%
                                                        Source:Household Survey, COFOPRI,2005


                                                      Figure No. 18

                   I                  Haveyou requesteda loan duringthe past 3 years?




                                                                                               41Yo
                                                        43%



                                                            YES
                                                          0 NO
                                                            Ns
                   I              Holdsa Title                       Does not hold a Title




UPRPstudies on the promotion of investment and credit activity informalized areas concluded that many
activities fell outside COFOPRI's jurisdiction, required the participation of other public and private
entities, and could only be coordinated at the inter-institutional level. Lack of information about the
advantagesof legal security remains a major obstacle for the benefits of formalization to materialize and a
dangerous incentive for reversal into informality. For instance, the provision of credit by the financial
system to low-income socioeconomic levels suffers from three main constraints: (a) the high levels of
informality of the sectors associated with the micro-finance business; (b) the high risk associated with
low-income brackets; and (c) the absence of a credit culture. As revealed by a series of studies
commissioned by the UPRP, the barriers to credit expansion include normative, cognitive and perception
aspects.

Given the excellent response to the registry and credit promotion programs of the UPRP, and the interest
shown by COFOPRI beneficiaries and financial institutions, those programs will be enhanced under the
Project. Initiatives to disseminate information that facilitates investment and credit in formalized areas
such as CIP and a real estate exchange, and campaigns to strengthen credit and registry culture will be
expanded. They will help to buildbridges between formalized owners and the market, particularly in the


                                                            36

areas of urban housing investment, and commercial opportunities in formalized areas. The development
of a credit insurance system under Legislative Decree No. 495 may also be considered, to reduce the
risWcosts of financial transactions among poor dwellers ininformal settlements.

The Real Estate Exchange will stimulate/mobilize real estate in recently formalized areas to attract a
critical mass of properties that are continually bought and sold, thus helping to increase the value of such
properties. Increased transactions should favor the settlements' economic and social development, and
discourage informal ownership. Furthermore, including the information on financial entities interested in
financing this segment of the market helps to achieve one of the Project's main objectives: to enable
formalized owners to convert their properties into liquidassets to generate additional resources in order to
make investments and improve living conditions.

Innovative activities for the promotion of respect towards property rights will involve not only COFOPRI
but also other public and private institutions as strategic allies, after a participatory process to develop a
shared vision, and define the roles and responsibilities of each institution. Close involvement of critical
actors will make the promotion program sustainable, allowing it to undertake consistent and integrated
solutions. This program also requires a diagnostic phase that will identify the barriers/bottlenecks that are
hinderingrespect for property rights or may limit the impact of facilitation activities.

As a first step in the determination of a municipal formalization strategy, the Project will help local
stakeholders to determine the universe of non-registered or mis-registered properties (landand buildings),
including not only informal settlements but also traditional areas where residential and commercial
properties are located. Urban areas will be analyzed to determine where cadastre services can be provided
on full cost-recovery basis and where special tariffs or no-cost principles should apply. In traditional
areas, owners of commercial, industrial or residential buildings will contribute to the full cost of the
cadastre service. This work on traditional areas will assist in private sector development through
enhancedaccess to formal credit, while enlargingthe municipal tax base.




                                                     37

             Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                  PERU: REAL PROPERTYRIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

 IBRD-financed

                                                                               Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
             Sector issue                               Project                (Bank-financed projects only)
                                                                               Implementation       Development
                                                                               Progress (IP)        Objective (DO)
                                         Decentralization and
Gradual decentralization process         Competitiveness Development                    S                  S
                                         Policy Loans Iand I1(DCDPLs)


Unresponsive justice system              Justice Services Improvement                   S                  S
                                         Project



 Other external developmentagencies

   Agency            Project Name                                           Objectives
                 Multi-sector Public      Supports the initial implementation phase of SIAF-GL (equipment for all
    CAF          Investment Program       local governments and utilization of the system by local governments) and in
                 US$9 million             the development of a cadastre module for ProvincialMunicipalities
                 Citizen expectations
   CIDA          and Reform               Encourages civil participation in decision-making processes (including local
                              Ofthe State
                 US$O.OS million          government authorities)

                 Strengthening of the
    GTZ          National Audit System    Adapts selected audit methods to regions and municipalities.
                 EUR2 million
                                          Supports effective processes to modernize and decentralize public
                                          administration inPeru, by redefining key institutional rules and putting new
                 StateModernization       administrative structures and systems in place. Actions proposed include: (i)
                                          strengthening capacity for formulating and implementing national and
   IADB          and Decentralization
                 Program                  sectoral policy; (ii)improving human resource management; (iii)   supporting
                 US$40 million            the installationof electronic government; distributingcompetencies and
                                          functions between different government levels; and (v) strengthening key
                                          institutions responsible for coordination and oversight of decentralization, as
                                          well as setting up suitable information for this purpose.
                 Special Land Titling
                 Project (Loan 906/0C-    Registration of rural properties; Executing agency - MAG in coordination

                 PE)                      with SUNARP

                 Transparency and

   USAID         control of the           Finances audits of regional governments and recommendations regarding
                 decentralization process internal control systems.
                 US$O.90 million

 The Bank has been involved in the sector since the early 1990s as lead donor. GoP, through MEF, has
 ensured donor coordination, by closely supervising the implementation of the UPRP-PETT and sought to
 develop consistent approaches in spite of different funding sources for urban/rural titling. The Bank and
 the IADB have agreedto maintain regular communication to assure that both projects continue operating
 inparallel andusingcompatible methodologies.




                                                         38

A Bank-sponsored initiative for donor coordination on decentralization was launched for the preparation
of DCDPL I1and led to co-financing of that programmatic operation and generated a space for dialogue
on a number of issues. The Project has built on that experience and Project design has benefited from
suggestionsfrom other donors likethe IADB,Canadaand Spain.
Programmatic Social Reform Loans (PSRLs). Three single-tranche loans have provided continued Bank
support to GoP's medium-term social reform program whose medium term objectives are to improve: (i)
the anti-poverty focus of public expenditures; (ii) access of the poor to quality health and education
                                                               the
services; and (iii)    the transparency of social programs and the empowerment of program beneficiaries in
their design and implementation. PSRL Iemphasized transparency and budgetary protection of key
social programs. PSRL I1 supported the design and launch of longer term reforms in anti-poverty
programs and the social sectors. PSRL I11 i s aimed at improving the anti-poverty focus of public
expenditures, access of the poor to health and education programs, and transparency and social oversight
of resource allocation. A fourth PSRL will be added to consolidate the social reform program in a
decentralized context by end-FYOS.
Accountability for Decentralizationin the Social Sectors TAL. This TAL supports the implementationof
a social program monitoring and evaluation systemin the context of decentralization. It also supports the
implementation of management agreementsbetweenthe Ministry of Women and Social Development and
local governments responsible for implementingfood assistanceand infrastructure programs.


                                  Box No. 1 PublicSector Management, Governanceand Growth:
                                            -
                                        The contributionof the RealPropertyRightsProject

  The proposedprojectwill not only be a centerpiecefor the Bank's Public SectorManagement(PSM) work inPeru,but it will also
    makeimportant cross-sectoralcontributions.The Bank's PSM strategyinPeruis basedbothon the institutionality pillar of the
   overallgovernmentstrategy expressedinthe NationalAgreement and on the governancepillar of the CAS; it aims at enhancing
   the quality of public institutions,andat improving the efficiency, effectivenessandtransparency of public sector management in
    order to improve growth, with aparticularfocus oninstitutionalstrengtheningfor decentralization,justice andpropertyrights.

  The Bank's PSM strategy in the areas of decentralizationand institutional strengthening i s supported by two DCDPLs already
  implemented and a current DPL under preparation, as well as a TAL supporting its implementation. Other PSM Bank work in
  Peru includesa Justice Services ImprovementProject.This project will be key in contributing to the implementationof both the
  decentralizationand competitiveness framework supported under the DCDPL loans and the TAL while having a particularly
  strongpovertyimpact.It will helppursuethe objectiveof institutional strengtheningby providing a specific instrumentto support
  this framework and make a focused contributionto enhance the capacity of both central and subnational governments to deliver
  servicesfor the poor.In particular, it complementsthe transparencyinitiatives in supportingthe integratedfinancial management
  system for local governments, the SIAF, which includes a module supporting local government tax efforts. These efforts to
  develop and strengthen a fiscal cadastre will be closely coordinatedwith the property cadastre development under the proposed
  Project.

  The project i s also integratedinto broader efforts to strengthen PSM efficiency by reducing bureaucratic bottlenecks in service-
  delivery andpromotingbroader administrativesimplification, which is also promoted, for example, by the SIMTA initiative under
  the Office of the Prime Minister and supportedby the DCDPL loans, aimed at administrative simplification including, at the local
  level, facilitating business openingandregistration.The proposedproject will also complement the Justice ServicesImprovement
  objectives of improving access to justice by providing access of the poor to property titling and the consolidatingthe rights of the
  poor over their most valuable assets. This in turn will helpnot only bring about greater legal security,but by enablingthem to use
  their property as collateral, it will expand economic opportunities for the poor, help creating opportunities for private sector
  development, andproviding support to local competitiveness.



Decentralization and Competitiveness Develoument Policy Loans (DCDPLs). Three operations will assist
GoP in the decentralization of public functions and resources, and a competitiveness enhancement
program, in tandem with measures to help ensure continued sound public finances and economic growth.
In light of the significant progress achieved under the first loan, the second loan (approved in December
2004) continued supporting the efforts of GoP around three specific objectives: (i)protect fiscal


                                                                39

sustainability during Peru's transition to a more decentralized State; (ii)assist in strengthening
management and fiscal capacity at sub-national levels for their progressive assumption of service
responsibilities; and (iii)support the creation of a better regulatory and investment environment for
upgrading Peru's competitiveness, with a strong regional focus. In particular, the third objective of the
loan will support a set of microeconomic and institutional reforms that will enhance competitiveness and
foster sustainable and equitable growth by favoring capital accumulation and productivity gains inPeru.
One of DCDPL I1triggers was the implementation of the integrated financial management system for
local government (SIAF-GL) that incorporates a cadastre module that will become part of the National
Integrated Cadastre Systemz1.DCDPL I1supported the Government's tax reform objectives in two key
areas: (i)  strengthening the tax bases of regional and local governments or the association between
revenue sharing and tax collections in each regionaljurisdiction; and (ii)            phasing out selected sectoral and
regional tax exemptions.        It strengthened the tax bases of regional and local governments for
decentralization to be fully effective.
Institutional Capacity for SustainableFiscal Decentralization TAL. DCDPL I1was complemented by this
TAL that aims to assist GoP to: (i) fiscal planning and monitoringcapacity of regional and local
                                        improve
governments; (ii)enhance public expenditure efficiency; and (iii)strengthen decentralized public
investment and asset managementcapacity.
Programmatic Growth and Fiscal Decentralization Structural Adiustment Loan. This Loan will focus on
the broader issues of decentralization, including fiscal decentralization. It will provide the framework for
decentralization by promoting the fiscal and institutionalframework for reform. Key components of this
loan are the design of the fiscal responsibility mechanisms for sub-national governments; the design of
the accreditation system and performance contracts that will help maintain minimum sectoral standards
for decentralized service delivery; civil service reform; and participatory budgeting.

                         FigureNo. 1The Project's contribution to the Bank'sPSM


                                          National                             CAS
                                         Agreement
                                     I                                              I




                                     I          Public Sector Management Saategy     I




                                                         .FinancialManagemem

                                                         .Tax admnisvauon




 *'The development of the SIAF-GL has been completed. The budget execution module has been installed in 823
 Provincial and District Municipalities that drew up their 2004 budgets using the module. Moreover, half of the
 municipalities with more than 40,000 inhabitants usedthe participatory process in drawing their 2005 budgets.
 Extensive user training has been provided.

                                                                 40

                              Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring
                  PERU: REAL PROPERTYRIGHTSCONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

                                            ResultsFramework

                                            Outcome Indicators


I The main objective of the      Appropriate legal, regulatory and institutional   Improvepolicy and institutional
  Project is to consolidate a    framework for real property rights protection     framework for real property
  decentralized and              and promotion adopted and operational.            rights access by users of the
  sustainable quality property   Low transaction cost of formalization and         registry and cadastre services.
  rights system that             cadastre for users in terms of out-of-pocket      Monitor performance of
  facilitates access to          expenditures and time.                            COFOPRI, SUNARP and IGN.
  property rights for the        Low formalization and cadastre costs for          Monitor evolution of
  Peruvian population.           GoP.                                              geographical access by users.
                                 Increased number of SUNARP users and              Monitor quality of real property
                                 internet services.                                records.
                                 Increased number of integrated real property
                                 cadastre and registry records.
                                 Average property value increase about
                                 US550

    Intermediate Results                                                            Use of Results Monitoring

Component One: Comprehen re Real Property RightsPolicies


3.  Real Property Rights         Multi-sectoral commission established and          Monitor the inter-institutional
    Knowledge Management.        operational.                                       coordination process.
                                 Diagnostic studies finalized (including            Ensuretimely executionof
                                 subjects like cost-benefit, credit practices and   required studies.
                                 land allocation).                                  Monitor participation and
                                 Workshops heldwith key stakeholders on             consultation activities.
                                 real property rights issues.

b. Legal and Regulatory          Legal and regulatory reform proposals              Monitor the legal and
    Reforms                      identified, prepared and agreedupon for real       institutional reformprocess.
                                 property rights, land administration and
                                 allocation, investment and credit promotion
                                 and inter-institutional coordination.

Component Two: Decentraliz 1Formalizationand Cadastre ServicesProvisio

a.  Planning of training         National capacity-building strategy                Align resources to strategy
    activities                   developed, including new formalization
                                 processes and partnerships.

b.  Capacity-building and         144 Provincial Municipalities provided            Gradual expansion into new
    technical assistancefor       formalization services with the technical         Provincial Municipalities
    local governments on          assistanceof COFOPRIunder Participation
    formalization services        Agreements.
                                  Approximately 471,000 titles issued by
                                  Provincial Municipalities with the technical
                                  assistanceof COFOPRI.
                                  COFOPRI's Average titling unit costs not
                                  higher than $100 per title.


                                                        41

;. Capacity-building and
   technical assistance for       services with the technical assistanceof        District Municipalities.
   local governments on           COFOPRI, under Participation Agreements.
   cadastre services              Approximately 536,000 properties cadastered
                                  by District Municipalities with the technical
                                  assistanceof COFOPRI.

iSupervisionofcapacity-
   building activities by
   COFOPRI


Component Three: Registry S    -vicesProvision Component

a. Real Property Registry         Improved services to registry users.             Evaluate quality and
   Information Management              5,670,000 millionproperty registry          timeliness of registration
                                       records under a new registry model.         services.
                                       New publicity services provided
                                       (summary sheets).
                                       SUNARP-RP publicity services on-line
                                       no less than 67% of total publicity
                                       services.
                                   0   SUNARP-RP average duration of
                                       registration of property transactions no
                                       longer than 5 days.

b. Real Property                  14 permanent continuous monitoring GPS                     performanceOf
    Demarcation                   stations installed.                               geodesic services.
                                  4,955 control points added to geodetic            Evaluate performance of
                                  network.                                          national cadastre system.


Component Four: Formalizal nBenefits Dissemination.

a.  Registry Culture Benefits.    Evidence of socio-economic impact:                 Periodic evaluation of the
                                         124,000 property owners and 102,000         effects of communication and
                                        high school students reached by              public education programs.
                                        registry culture campaign.                   External and internal
                                         Satisfactory evaluation of cultural         evaluations and user surveys
                                         appropriateness of formalization and        show improved access to
                                         cadastre services for indigenous            registry services.
                                        peoples and women.


b. Credit Culture Benefits.              8,000 micro-entrepreneurs and 99,000
                                         high school students obtain access to
                                         credit information.
                                         Increased access to credit evidenced by
                                         number and amounts of credit obtained
                                         by formalized users, with or without
                                         mortgages.


 c. Development of a Formal              129,000recently formalized owners
    Real Property Rights                 use real property exchange.

                                                         42

  Market

d. Information about Real           855 community leaders and 60,000
   Property Rights Respect          high school students reached by
   Benefits                         property respect campaign.

Component Five: Project Mar gement, Monitoringand Evaluation.
                              Annual operating plans, progress reports,   I  PCUperformance in financial
                              and ICR contribution started 3 months          management and procurement
                              before due date.                               continuously monitored and
                              Annual operating plans, progress reports,      evaluated.
                               and ICR delivered on time. Annual reviews     Prompt remedial actions taken
                               and mid-term review carried out on time.      incase of deviation from
                              TORSfor independent impact evaluation          agreed schedules.
                              prepared and consultant contracted by          Advisory Committee carries
                               December 2009.                                out private sector and civil
                               Periodic evaluations conducted on time.       society vetting of monitoring
                               Disaggregated socio-economic information      and evaluation results.
                               generated by the Project and user feedback
                               utilizedin decision-making.




                                                   43


d    N   d




m    N    m




N    N    N




0    0 ,  0

Tt
2         -8     c;
                  Tt



      8
      8
      &i    0
            2     x
                  0




                  m
v3                m
00          5     N




P           0     P
In          z     .-



      0
      0
      9
00
N     3
      00




            N
0     0     0'    0

           . .
                    a


             0
             0         0
             0    0    0
                  0
             :    2.   2
                       0
                   m   9
                    CJ d        m




             8
             c.l
             0      8  8e
             0
             2      8   d
                    m    00,
                        c.l     m

                         8
                         s
                         W
                    0    00,
                         3      m




             0      0    0      m    0 01




                          .
I    I  .            a            .

 a
   m
  C




             8 0
               0        E
            2  2        0;
                 Q\     2




             8   0
                 10     %
             %   ",
                 d      x
                 (u     m




     0 0     0   0      0




     0 0     0   C      0




3  . .  .    .     .      .


                                  Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
                 PERU: REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

The Project will expand the benefits of the UPRP under a decentralized management structure. It will
adopt new approaches aimed at reaching new users in new areas. The consolidation of the UPRP
achievements in terms of legal security, asset mobilization, property appreciation and access to credit will
require an adjustment in the tools and targets of formalization taking into account the new institutional
realities determined by decentralization: the Provincial and District Municipalities have moved to the
"driver's seat" of the formalization and cadastre processes. The Project will address several issues in
order to discourage the return to informality or the creation of new informality: (a) a comprehensive
property rights policy-making mechanism to formulate a road map for a long-term vision; (b) the
completion of the formalization and cadastre programs, in selected remnant areas that require new cost-
effective methodologies; (c) the full-fledged integration of spatial and legal property information records,
to facilitate low-cost, easy access for the users; and (d) the effective economic utilization of property
rightsand enhancedeconomic activity informalized areas.

1.        Comprehensive RealPropertyRightsPoliciesComponent

The objective of this component i s to: (a) strengthenthe policy-making process on property rights inPeru
to preserve the achievements of the legal, regulatory and institutional reforms pursued under the UPRP;
and (b) and to ensure that further policy reforms will lead to equitable and sustainable socio-economic
outcomes. It will finance the technical assistance required to facilitate real property rights knowledge
management, and to prepare sound legal and regulatory reform proposals. Topical areas include inter-
institutional coordination in a decentralized governance framework, access to affordable land, land use
planning for municipalities, and the linkages between real property rights institutions, and the financial
and housing sectors.

a.        Real Property Rights Knowledge Management

The Project will finance the establishment and operation of a multi-sectoral commission to analyze            `

priority issues for real property rights like: (i) simplification of the legal, regulatory and institutional
framework, to avoid possible function overlap between different Government levels as well as promoting
social control of Government agencies, including: (A) simplified procedures to improve low-cost access;
and (B) capacity-building to implement such simplified procedures and proactive mechanisms; and (ii)
new institutional framework for the generation and administration of land information.

The Project will also finance socio-economic studies, like cost-benefit analysis o f (i) to formality
                                                                                           access
under various scenarios (land adjudication, construction permits and building formalization); (ii)
remaininginformality (lack of access to formal credit); (iii) formal (includingthe costs of registry
                                                               staying
requirements for subsequenttransactions); (iv) credit practices; and (v) case studies on land allocation.

Through the multi-sectoral commission the research agenda will be set in conjunction with academic
institutions, private sector groups, NGOs involved in urban development, access to land, housing and
credit issues, gender and front-line workers of COFOPRI and SUNARP. A broad participation and
consultation process among these key stakeholders for real property rights issues will take place for the
development of real property rights policies at the national level (including rural and urban areas) and the
definition of the roles and responsibilities of the institutions involved. This process will help: (i) clarify
related functions at different levels of Government; and (ii)     identify and prioritize issues, options, and
possible solutions, in order to develop a shared vision, and preparejoint action plans.




                                                     50

b.       Legal and Regulatory Reforms

On the basis of the inter-institutionalcoordination, studies, consultation and participation advancedunder
the previous subcomponent, this subcomponent will support the preparation of policy reform proposals
for the Borrower's new legal and regulatory framework for: (i)     real property rights: to operationalize the
provisions of Laws No. 28294 and 28391, the Project will finance the drafting of the required
implementing regulations and instructives. Similarly, the Project may finance the development of
regulations that facilitate access to property rights through a land administration system, the preservation
of the efficiency gains of the UPRPin terms of user-friendly rules and procedures, and the introduction of
mandatory registration; (ii)  land administration and allocation: the processesto acquire State and private-
owned land should be simplified. Project-financed proposals will standardize criteria and processesto be
applied by different competent agencies; (iii)   investment and credit promotion: As a part of the overall
strategy of the GoP for access to land and housing by the Peruvian poor, the Project will support the
development of equitable and sustainable land and housing markets through the legislation that would
also help prevent invasions and facilitate access to credit; and (iv) inter-institutional coordination.

2.       DecentralizedFormalizationand Cadastre ServicesProvision Component

The objective of this component is to provideformalization and cadastre services inurban and peri-urban
areas in the territory of Participating Municipalities, with the technical assistance of COFOPRI, through
activities: (a) adapted to the diverse needs of informal owners; (b) justified in cost-benefit terms; and (c)
involving capacity-building for Provincial and District Municipalities. The Project will continue
promoting administrative simplification to recognize and protect property rights; only to the extent that
formal rules interact with social reality and reduce transaction costs, will GoP be able to avoid reversion
to informality.    It will comprise the following subcomponents: planning of training activities by
COFOPRI, capacity-building and technical assistance for local governments on formalization services,
capacity-building and technical assistance for local governments on cadastre services, supervision of
capacity-building activities by COFOPRI.

Municipalities will gradually take over formalization and cadastre responsibilities because: (a) the
municipal government level i s the most appropriate for these activities under national standards
established and supervised by COFOPRI; (b) formalization and cadastre activities generate experience in
the use of land information tools and facilitate technology transfer which will be useful for urban
development, land management and buildingregulation functions; (d) municipalities' capacity to update
cadastre records i s crucial for project sustainability; (e) municipalities help generate solutions to housing
demand by supporting housing markets; and (f)usingland information municipalities can increase their
tax revenuesand contribute to the cost of information maintenance.

This component will finance technical assistance for the Participating Municipalities and COFOPRI in
order to design suitable strategies. It will provide the tools for the development of standard control
mechanisms for the decentralized application of formalization and cadastre processesand the nation-wide
supervision of these processeswhen conducted by Participating Municipalities.

a.       Planning of training activities by COFOPRI

b.       Capacity-building and technical assistancefor local governments on formalization services

Provision of technical assistance and training to the Participating Municipalities and COFOPRI in order
to design and implement a formalization strategy adapted to the particularities of each Municipality,
including: (i)activity planning, comprising municipal capacity diagnostic, informal possessions
diagnostic, and municipal strategy development; (ii)      municipal capacity-building, including workshops,
internships, in-service training, distance training, ex-post evaluation, and follow-up groups; and (iii)  area

                                                       51

and lot formalization, including dissemination, inter-institutional coordination, census-taking and
publication, field work categorization, mapping, legal analysis, titling and registration.

Specific formalization activities by the ParticipatingMunicipalities, in partnership with COFOPRI, may
comprise: (i)establishment of formalization units in Provincial Municipalities in coordination with the
cadastre units of District Municipalities; (ii)      completion of areas where COFOPRI and the Provincial
Municipalities worked under the UPRP; (iii)        re-engineering of traditional formalization processes to adapt
them to the particulars of each Provincial Municipality; and (iv) establishment of specific cost-
effectiveness and timeliness standards. Area and lot formalization will also comprise development of
reliable base and specific cartography, including check points, field data, cartography editing, graphic
analysis, validation and processing.

                                        Estimated Cadastre Services Demand




                         ANCASH                             16               12,087
                         APURIMAC                          21                23,042
                         AREQUIPA                           1                    841
                         AYACUCHO                           1                    569
                         CAJAMARCA                          64               81,927
                         CALLA0                             1                    526
                         cusco                              52                69,426
                         HUANCAVELICA                       14                14,525
                         HUANUCO                            43                50,006
                         JUNIN                              26                33,642
                         LA LiBERTAD                        7                  4,686
                         LAMBAYEQUE                         1                  2,164
                         LIMA                               7                 18,556
                         LORETO                             20                20,272
                         MADRE DE DlOS                      6                  6,388
                         PASCO                              9                  8,992
                         PlURA                              30                40,444
                         PUN0                               55                76,440
                         SAN MARTIN                         30                44,236
                         TUMBES                             4                  2,825
                         UCAYALI                            3                  2,022
                         Estimated Demand                                    535.639



c.       Capacity-building and technical assistance for localgovernments on cadastre services

The Project will provide technical assistance and training to the Participating Municipalities and
COFOPRI in order to design and implement a cadastre strategy adapted to the particularities of each
Municipality, by: (i) activity planning, through the development of a municipal strengthening program
tailored to the requirements of the Participating Municipalities, including a training needs diagnostic
(based on the previous assessment of the capacity of the Participating Municipalities) and training
proposals; (ii) Municipal capacity-building, including workshops, in-services training, distance training
and ex-post evaluation.       The provision of traditional training will comprise specialized modules
preparation, validation and production of training materials, while the provision of distance training will
comprise preparation and validation of appropriate materials, interactive modules and tutoring. The
training programs will involve technology transfer of cadastre capabilities from COFOPRI to the
Participating Municipalities; (iii)  graphic and alphanumeric data collection, including geodesic control
and cadastre cartography, coding and numbering, demarcation and census taking, and data processing;
and (iv) unified cadastre code allocation, including publication of cadastre information and registry-
cadastre linkage.

Implementing municipal cadastres will also require: (i)development of geo-referenced cartographic
databases on the basis of satellite images and field surveys that will categorize and codify areas into
blocks and lots through alphanumeric information collected in standard forms; (ii)development of

                                                              52

software applications to process and analyze municipal cadastral data by cross-referencing graphic and
alphanumeric information; (iii)complementing the property information collected during the
formalization process with additional information required by the Municipalities for land administration
and tax collection purposes; (iv) establishment of appropriate quality control mechanisms; and (v) design
and implementation of a strategy for the regular updating of the municipal cadastral information
collected.

Specific cadastre activities will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of the National Cadastre
System, so that they may be used to improve land conditioning and zoning, and building control,
including: (i)training of municipal employees so as to maximize readiness prior to the assumption of
specific responsibilities; (ii)developing the operating procedures for the implementation of the Single
Cadastre Code which can be usednot only for registration purposes but also for land planning and zoning
at the local level; (iii)
                        identification of appropriate operational arrangements; (iv) definition of the scope
of the municipal cadastres, on the basis of a demand analysis that determines potential users, users' needs
and willingness to pay, data suppliers, mechanisms to capture and maintain data sets, and cost-benefit
ratios; and (v) design and implementation of flexible cadastre information software applications that will
process and analyze information generatedduring the titling processes that can be adapted to incorporate
additional information requiredby municipal authorities.

Preference may be given to operations covering several Municipalities and using municipal facilities to
reduce costs and to facilitate technology transfer.       COFOPRI will provide continuous support to
municipalities for them to maximize the benefits of appropriate practices in the administration and
analysis of cadastre information. Municipalities will have full access to the new cadastre information
underthe SIAF-GLmodulethat allows a property and owners' information to beusedfor tax purposes.

d.       Supervision of capacity-building activities by COFOPRI

3.       Registry Services Provision Component

The objective of this component is to support the integration of real property data and the establishment
of the national cadastre system in SUNARP-RP to improve: (a) the quality of real property registry
services; and (b) access for the Peruvian population. This component supports SUNARP's Real Property
Registry Information System and real property demarcation activities.

a.       RealProperty Registry InformationManagement

This subcomponent will support the provision of technical services and training to support SUNARP-
RP's national coverage under an efficient registration model, including: (i)   revision of data models for
SUNARP-RP, comprising analysis and definition of the mechanisms for the consolidation,
standardization and migration of SUNAFW-RP databases through: (A) review of existing data models
(SARP and SIR), and design and implementation of a new SUNARP-RP data model (Unified
Registration System-SUR); (B) integration of SUNAFW-FW databases, including individual checks of
physical and legal records for their subsequent incorporation into the new data model; and (ii)
development and implementation of a web-based service platform for the new SUNARP-RP data model,
as a modem tool of registry publicity complementary to traditional services, comprising specific web-
basedapplications.

b.       Real Property Demarcation

         (i)Modernization and densification of the Borrower's geodesic network as a proper framework
of spatial reference for data validation of cadastral surveys, through the operation and maintenance of a


                                                      53

network of permanent monitoring stations, comprising the adoption and dissemination of appropriate
technical standards, nomenclature and processes, through: (A) establishment and operation of 14
permanent monitoring stations with geo-positioning system (GPS) equipment for data transfer among
member agencies of the National Cadastre System; and (B) densification of GPS stations in Participating
Municipalities, to assist in the development and maintenance of up-to-date urban cartography. Through
this technical tool SUNARP-RP will start developing the unified cadastral model provided by the
National IntegratedCadastre System Law that will make possible to inputhetrieve data intolfrom a single
common cadastre database through modem systems for the functions o f (A) planning and management;
(B) data gathering and processing; and (C) generation, administration, maintenance and update of real
property cadastre information (alpha-numeric and graphic); and (ii)       capacity-building of the national
cadastre system through the provision of training to the professional and technical staff of the member
institutions of the system on the principles and modalities for the implementation of the National
Integrated Cadastre System Law, includingtraining in the generation, administration, maintenance and
update of cadastre data.

4.       FormalizationBenefitsDisseminationComponent

The objective of this component is to support the economic utilization of property rights and foster real
property-related economic activity inProject areas. Specific goals are: (a) providing practical information
on the linkage between registration and credit as a tool for individual empowerment; (b) reducing
information gaps between formalized owners, and credit providers; (c) understanding real estate markets
in marginal areas in order to identify measures to encourage and facilitate real property transactions; and
(d) developing strategic alliances among the public and private sectors to promote business development
and property respect inProject areas.

This component will finance technical assistance to develop and implement innovative communications
and public education strategies in the fields of registry benefits, credit benefits, and property rights
markets and culture in the same geographical areas where Component 2 will be implemented. These
strategies will aim at promoting individual and community empowerment and equitable participation. To
that end, the Project will develop cost-effective strategies that are gender-aware, sensitive to ethnicity and
multiculturalism, and grounded in an understanding of local and regional differences in language and
communicationcodes.

These communications strategies will also aim at sensitizing local and regional governments and the
private sector through messages that respond to regional and local culture; a national and homogenous
strategy would not be appropriate for a multicultural country that i s undergoing a decentralization
process. The Project will also develop alliances with local institutions that can support the implementation
of these strategies.

a.       Registry Benefits

Technical assistance will be provided under the project to develop and implement innovative public
education campaigns in the area of registry culture, by revising and expanding current COFOPRI and
SUNARP-RPprograms to informthe Borrower's population about registry issueslike: (i) significance
                                                                                              the
of the property registry for legal security. Failure to keep up-to-date information in the registry, either
because of not-registered subsequent transactions or changes in properties' features would generate new
issues of property informality within a few years; and (ii) establishment of the National Cadastre
                                                                 the
System that makes mandatory a Single Cadastre Code issued by the District Municipalities, to avoid this
legal mandate to be seen as a barrier to registry services or a tax requirement but rather as a further
safeguard of legal security. These public education campaigns targeted at recently formalized groups will
help minimize the risk of reversion into informality by addressing cultural barriers (attitudes and
behaviors) for registry access.

                                                     54

b.      Credit Benefits

         (i)     Credit culture: The project will provide technical assistance to continue COFOPRI's
public education campaign to promote credit culture with an innovative approach that brings together
financial institutions and micro-enterprises. This activity will revise and expand COFOPRI related
programs so as to develop a second phase not only in Metropolitan Lima but also in other major cities
(such as Piura, Chiclayo, Trujillo, Chimbote, Huancayo, Ica and Arequipa) with the assistance of adult
education specialists. The credit culture program will: (1) place special emphasis on family-run home-
based businessesand small enterprises as the segment with the best chances to access credit; (2) promote
the active participation of financial institutions; and (3) develop tools to transfer know-how to micro-
finance institutions so that they may gradually take over implementation.

         (ii)    Positive Information Bureau (Central de Znformacidn Positiva - CIP): The project will
enhance this instrument for the promotion of small investment and credit programs, and commercial and
productive opportunity links, centered on specific financial products and services informalized areas. CIP
will allow financial institutions to access information on credit history and repayment capacity. The
Project will support: (1) consolidation of CIP to expand coverage and impact in terms of widespread
dissemination of market-relevant information, including business opportunities; and (2) connection with
other databases. Emphasis will be placed on improving CIP in close consultation with potential clients to
ensure that CIP i s user-focused, demand driven and-appropriately priced and delivered.

c.       Development of a formal real property rights market

The project will provide technical assistance to develop and implement a real estate exchange. This
database will contain information on supply and demand of properties in recently formalized areas to be
accessed massively through the internet. The project will provide the technical assistance required for the
design and implementation of the database; information will be classified by towns, districts, human
settlements, popular urbanizations, housing programs andor populated centers. It will include: (1)
software applications linking supply and demand data on formalized properties which can be easily
accessed for free by interested parties, through internet kiosks; and (2) information on financial entities
willing to grant financing for property transactions in formalized areas. The exchange will be designed to
stimulate the real estate market within the low-income segment of the population through easy access to
reliable information on potentialformal sales and purchases.

d.       Information about real property respect benefits

The Project will also provide technical assistance to develop and implement public education campaigns
in the area of real property rights respect. This activity will support the design and implementation of
promotion campaigns to: (1) develop a shared vision among the social and institutional actors involved:
workshops will be carried out to identify and characterize the issues, propose and prioritize possible
 solutions, and undertake joint actions; and (2) promote campaigns on the rights and responsibilities of
 owners: communication campaigns will be designed in order to generate a participatory process within
community organizations aimed at promoting new attitudes and behaviors.

 5.      Project Management, Monitoring andEvaluation

 The objective of this component is to achieve successful Project implementation. It supports: (a) standard
 Project coordination; and (b) specific monitoring and evaluation activities, like (i)  assessments of the
 transparency and accountability framework of COFOPRI and SUNARP-RP, including reviews of
 outreach and disclosure procedures, beneficiary selection mechanisms, and appropriateness of
 communications and educational tools; and (ii)evaluation of socio-economic outcomes, through: (A)

                                                     55

continuous follow-up of poverty indicators in formalized areas; (B) assessment of market mobilization of
real property rights in terms of transaction numbers and prices, credit and investment directed to
formalized properties; and (C) review of the impact of Project communications and educational activities
interms of knowledge gains andbehaviors changes inindividuals and communities.

PCU will be responsible for the administration of procurement, disbursements and financial management
matters. PCU will also be in charge of Project monitoring and evaluation activities, in liaison with
COFOPRI, SUNARP, the ParticipatingMunicipalities and strategic partners.

Qualitative and quantitative studies, including surveys and participatory beneficiary assessments will be
financed to provide information for decision-making and improve Project management, obtain beneficiary
feedback on Project interventions, and better understand the socio-economic benefits and the long-term
impact of property formalization on community empowerment (base-line and follow-up surveys will be
conducted to compare results with the ones carried out under the UPRP). The project operational
framework will be specifically reviewed through: (a) a qualitative element providedby external watchdog
activities involving stakeholders' representatives like formalization beneficiaries, users of integrated
cadastre-registry in the private sector (real state investors, financial sector institutions, notaries, private
utilities) and in the public sector (mayors, public utilities) to ensure the Project achieves its objectives;
and (b) a quantitative element based on the 2000-2004 baseline to construct a panel and follow it up by
2007 and 2009 for monitoring the impact of formalization among beneficiaries. The result of these
surveys would be presentedto the Advisory Committee for review andcomments.




                                                      56

                                         Annex 5: Project Costs
                PERU:REAL PROPERTYRIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT




   Project Cost By Component and/or Activity                     Local           Foreign            Total
                                                             US $million      US$million        US $million
   1.Comprehensive Real Property RightsPolicies                    0.4             0.0               0.36
   2. DecentralizedFormalizationand Cadastre                     17.5              2.5              21.21
   Services Provision
   3. Registry Services Provision                                12.7              2.3              15
   4. Formalization Benefits Dissemination                         4.1             0.0               2.05
   5. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation                2.1             0.0               3.03
   Total Baseline Cost                                           36.8              4.8              41.66
                                    TotalProjectCosts'           38.8              5.1              41.66
                             Interest during construction          0               0                 0
                                           Front-endFee                            0.065
                             TotalFinancingRequired              38.8              5.1              41.66



'Identifiable taxes and duties are 15% of total cost, and the total Project cost, net of taxes, i s US$35.44
million. Therefore, the share of Project cost net of taxes is about 85 %.




                                                      57

                               Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                PERU:REAL PROPERTYRIGHTSCONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

a. Imulementation Period. The Loan i s expected to become effective by June 2006 and the Project will be
implemented over a five year period (through June 30,201 1).

b. Implementing.Arrencv. This Project will be carried out by COFOPRI under a Subsidiary Agreement
with MEF. Components 1 and 4 will be the sole responsibility of COFOPRI, while responsibility for
Component 2 will be shared with participating Municipalities under Participation Agreements, and the
responsibility for Component 3 will be shared with SUNARP and IGN under Cooperation Agreements.
COFOPRI will be responsible for overall Project management, monitoring and evaluation (Component
5).

c. Implementation Arrangements. The close link between the mandate of COFOPRI and SUNARP (both
under the jurisdiction of MINJUS), and the experience of the UPRP suggest that the substance of the
implementation arrangements established under the UPRP should be maintained. Cooperation
Agreements will be entered into between COFOPRI, SUNARP and IGN to determine the functions and
responsibilities of each agency and their relationship with PCU. ParticipationAgreements will be entered
into between COFOPRI, and Provincial and District Municipalities in selected areas in connection with
the execution of Component 2. These agreements will specify the role and responsibilities of COFOPRI
and each municipality (according to their different levels of institutional capacity) and the resources each
will contribute to the common endeavor, including the periodic maintenance of the registry-cadastre
system, and the strengthening of the municipality technical capacity.

Under the Loan Agreement, a Project Steering Committee with representatives from MEF, MINJUS,
COFOPRI, IGN, SUNARP, MEF and civil society will be responsible for overall Project supervision
including: (a) a approval of each Annual Operating Plan and any modification thereof; (b) review of
Project implementation audits and reports; and (c) responsibility for the preparation of the short list for
the selection of key staff for PCU under competitive and transparent procedures. The Bank will review
the qualifications and experience of the individuals in the short list and the procedures followed for their
selection. A Project Management Committee will be responsible for supervision of the PCU and overall
management of the Project, including representatives of COFOPRI, SUNARP and IGN. An Advisory
Committee, comprising representatives of the private sector, civil society, and academic institutions, will
provide regular feedback on the performance indicators. Under the Participation Agreements, a local task
force comprising representatives of COFOPRI and Participating Municipalities will have field-level
implementation responsibilities for formalization, and the establishment and operation of real property
cadastres.

                                       Project Steering Committee



                                       Project
                                     Management
                                      Committee




d. Project Management: PCU will be in charge of the operational aspects. PCU will have primary
responsibility for: (a) preparing the Annual Operation Plans; (b) overall Project monitoring and

                                                     58

evaluation; (c) processing of documentation required for disbursement of Loan proceeds and for
procurement of goods, works and services under the Project; (d) updating the Procurement Plan and
preparing standard bidding documents, technical specifications for goods, as well as requests of
proposals, terms of reference and short lists for consultants' services; and (e) preparing financial
statements and FMRs, and maintaining the records and accounts. PCU will be staffed with a Project
Manager, an administrative coordinator, a monitoring and evaluation coordinator (the three subject to the
Bank's no-objection irrespective of source of financing) and specialists in information technology,
financial managementand procurement, and socio-economic monitoring.

For the implementation of the decentralized formalization and cadastre services subcomponent,
COFOPRI will establish decentralized task forces to work with Provincial and District Municipalities.
These temporary task forces will assure timely and efficient implementation. Once capacity-building on
formalization and cadastre has finished in one municipality, the unit personnel will be reassignedto other
municipalities to start a new task. The task forces will be responsible of the technical quality of
formalization and cadastre services, including quality control of goods and services financed by the
Project, and the effectiveness of the participatory/consultative mechanisms designed to involve different
actors of civil society and the private sector.

e.      Accounting. Financial ReDorting and AuditingArrangements: PCUwill handle the flow of funds
and to that end it will establish and maintain separate Project records and accounts, and provide periodic
reports on the use of those resources. Such records and accounts will be maintained in order to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, expenditures and results of each
Project activity.

Financial management and procurement assessments have been carried out during Project preparation to
identify areas for further strengthening of PCU. For purposes of Project implementation, PCU will be
staffed at all times with qualified financial management and procurement professionals. Adequate
financial managementarrangementsfor the Project will be includedinthe Operational Manual which will
be a condition of effectiveness.

PCU will prepare Project financial statements. The Project accounts and records will be audited
periodically by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with Bank guidelines. A
certified copy of the audit report will be furnished to the Bank no later than six months after the end of
each GoP fiscal year.

f.      Bank supervision. Annual reviews by November each year will be required in the legal
documents. They will include a thorough evaluation of the key aspects of Project implementation: (i)
quality control of formalization activities, (ii)technological flexibility; (iii)establishment and
enforcement of single national standards;           and (iv)   technical compatibility and operational
complementarities with other projects, like IRCNand PETT.




                                                     59

                  Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                PERU: REALPROPERTY RIGHTSCONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

FinancialManagement Assessment

A Joint Financial Management and DisbursementAssessment was performed by the regional Senior FMS
and LOA Senior Finance Officer, in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Guidelines for Assessment of
Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank Financed Projects. The evaluation was performed
on site from December 14 to 16, 2004, and followed up until to negotiations through regular on site
meetings with the project preparation team.

The main conclusions reachedwere as follows:

1. OverallConclusion:This project is a "repeaterproject". The originalproject was implemented using
transaction-based disbursements and the assessment focused on evaluating PCU capacity and systems
readiness for scaling-up this Project by using country systems (Sisternu Zntegrudo de Adrninistrucion
Finuncieru - SIAF) and support report-baseddisbursements.

Overall, during implementation of the UPRP, the PCU maintained financial management arrangements,
systems and practices that were satisfactory to the Bank and adequate to provide the Bank with accurate
and timely information regardingproject resources, expenditures and activities with the exception of the
systems' inability to produce adequate Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). COFOPRI has taken steps
to improve capacity to transition into report-based disbursements. The Financial Management Action Plan
set forth below (which includes scaling-up the integrated financial management system) i s being
satisfactorily implementedand should be achieved by effectiveness of the Loan.

Summary Risk Assessment:- Both inherent and control risks are rated moderate. Budget reports are
prepared quarterly and issued within 15 days of the period end and there are no material concerns about
data accuracy; the legal and institutional framework at country and entity level are adequate and
performance in core aspects of accounting, internal control and financial reporting have been satisfactory;
there i s a sound framework for external oversight and adequate institutional arrangements to ensure that
independent external auditors are appointed on time. Audit reports have been satisfactory and on time and
management letters have revealed no major accountability issues. Funds flow arrangements are simple
and have functioned well inthe first phase.

2. Organization and Staffing: The definition of roles and responsibilities of COFOPRI and SUNARP,
through the Cooperation Agreement is critical. The two institutions have agreed that COFOPRI will
conduct all procurement processes, including those in connection with activities to be executed by
SUNARP; COFOPRI will also carry out administrative functions like payment and reporting of
expenditures on behalf of SUNARP for which the later will provide COFOPRI the required supporting
documentation. As long as there is timely and adequate flow of funds and supporting documentation to
cover expenditures made, this arrangementwould be acceptable to the Bank

The proposed organizational chart for the project was reviewed and suggestions were made which
COFOPRItook into account inthe final proposal. COFOPRI maintainedadequate minimumstaffing after
the closing of the UPRP to finalize the preparation of this Project, and to ensure that systems
modifications were adequately implemented as per the agreedAction Plan set forth below.

3. Accounting Policies and Procedures: The project will be implemented in accordance with: (a) the
National Control System, regulated by the Supreme Audit Institution; and (b) the National Accounting
System, regulated by the Accountant General. The chart of accounts used in the first loan (based on the


                                                     60

Plan Contable Gubernamental del SistemaNacional de Contabilidad) would be adaptedto reflect Project
design, i.e. components, disbursement categories, and financing sources and accounts will continue to be
prepared on a cash basis. The Operational Manual will be revised and updated by the PCU and submitted
to the Bank for review and comments before negotiations and to be approved before effectiveness of the
loan.

4. Budgeting procedures and impact on flow of funds: Planning and budgeting will be in line with
general Government procedures regulated by the Annual Budget Law and operated under SIAF. The
procedures in effect under the UPRP will continue to apply and budgetary control will consist o f (a)
timely preparation and approval of annual programs and budgets; and (b) verification that budget
information is entered and available in the accounting system to allow timely recording of commitments,
payments and accruals. Since the ability to make projections of cash flow requirements will be important
for the successful implementation of report-based disbursements, COFOPRI will need to synchronize
Project planning, and execution of payments and authorization by MEF of withdrawal application
requests to be submitted to the Bank. To that end, COFOPRI will need to prepare and analyze on a
quarterly basis budget execution variances.

5. FinancialMonitoringReports: The UPRP was approved under LAC1and was required to provide
Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs). During UPRP implementation, COFOPRI produced very limited
PMRs and was not able to produce reports which would allow for reconciliation of physical andfinancial
progress. COFOPRI has arranged for the installation of the project execution module (MEP) of SIAF in
order to be able to effect the necessary adjustments to produce adequate FMRs, including the necessary
documentation to support a Report-based disbursement mechanism.

The core FMRs will include

    0   A financial section specifying sources and applications of project resources and a statement of
        investment by project component reporting the current quarter and the accumulated operations
         against ongoing plans.

     0  An output monitoring section that: (i)    describes physical progress in the implementation of the
         Project, both cumulative and for the period covered by the report; and (ii)     explains variances
         between the actual and previously forecast implementationtargets.

     0   A procurement section setting forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures
        under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as of the end of the period covered by
         the report.

6. Externalaudit: UPRP auditors issued unqualified opinions on project financial statements over the
last period audited January 1, 2003 - June 30, 2004 and no reportable material weaknesses in the Internal
Control Memorandum for such period were identified in such report. Prior year (2002) had been audited
by another firm which also issued unqualified opinion on financial statements. Overall, during UPRP
implementation COFOPRI consistently took timely and complete corrective actions to address
weaknesses identifiedby the auditors or the Bank.

This Project will continue to provide the Bank annually with financial statements audited by an
independent auditing firm acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
which will include an opinion on Project financial statements and a management letter on the internal
control structure. Annual audit reports with the related statements will be submitted to the Bank within six
(6) months of the end of the Borrower's fiscal year. All supporting records would be maintained at the
Project site for at least one (1) year after the completion of the Project. The Bank's audit guidelines will


                                                     61

be used by the Borrower in determining the format and content of the annual financial statements and in
preparingthe audit TORs. Project audits will be financed by the Loan.

7. Financialmanagement supervisionduring implementation: Given project scope and risk profile,
supervision activities will include at least two visits per year in addition to review of FMRs, and annual
review of the external audit.

8. Readinessfor implementation: During Project preparation an Action Plan was discussed and agreed
with COFOPRI, implementation of which was followed up in the period leading to appraisal and
negotiations.

                                                  Table 1.Action Plan


                                            Action                                        Status at Negotiations
   Sistema Nacional de Inversidn Publica (SNIP)
   Preparecalendar for projectpresentationandapproval in SNIP                                   Completed


   Finalizeproject organizationstructure (includingroles and responsibilities)                  Completed
  1Finalizeinter-institutionalarrangements with SUNARP andprepare and submit draft
                                                              - -                       1       Completed          I
   Cooperationagreementbetween-COFOPRI and SUNARP
   Renewkey staffingworking inpreparationof project                                             Completed

   Internal Control
   Review andstrengtheningof the generalfiling system                                           Completed

    Operational Manual
    Submitdraft OperationalManualfor Bankreview                                                 Completed
   External Audit
    Submitdraft TORs for Bank's review                                                          Completed
    Hireexternal auditors                                                                   Within 6 monthsof

    Financial Reporting
    Submitformats and contentof core FMRs for Bank review                                       Completed
    Revise formats andcontent of FMRsto includedisbursementsreports and cash forecast    During Implementation,if
    for Bank review                                                                        andwhen theproject
                                                                                         decidesto implement report
                                                                                           baseddisbursements
    Management Information System(Siam)

    Install new version of SIAF (including SIAF Projectmodule)                                  Completed
    Training of project staff inthe new SIAF version                                            Completed
    Finalizescheme for SIAF of FMRsreports                                                      Completed
    Implementationof adjustmentsinSIAF for producingFMRs which includesthe                DuringImplementation
    disbursementinformationto support report-baseddisbursements

DisbursementArrangements

During negotiations, it was determined that additional work was still needed by COFOPRI to transition
into report-based disbursements which would require the completion of the preparatory work (see Action
Plan above), including making adjustments to its information system and preparation of documentation
(i.e. reports) which could support report-based disbursements. Thus, COFOPRI informed the Bank that it
has chosen to begin with transaction-based disbursements. During implementation, in conjunction with
the Bank's disbursement and financial management team, COFOPRI will evaluate its capacity and
readiness to transition into report-based Disbursements.


                                                             62

Irrespective of the disbursement mechanism, and to facilitate Project implementation, COFOPRI will
have access to funds advanced by the Bank to a Special Account in US dollars for processing
disbursements for eligible expenditures under Project activities. The Special Account (SA) will be
opened in Banco de la Nacio'n (Government commercial bank) and will be managed by COFOPRI
(including expenditures financed under components implemented by SUNARP). Funds deposited into the
Special Account as advances (depending on the disbursement mechanism) will follow the Bank's
disbursement operating policies and procedures established for each mechanism as described in the Loan
Agreement and inthe Disbursement Letter, as the case may be.

Transaction-based disbursements: In this case, an Authorized Allocation (AA) for advances made into
the Special Account will be established. This AA would be set to a maximum of $2,000,000 and
COFOPRI could request such advance as neededonce the Loan is declared effective.

Once the initial deposit has been provided, the PCU will submit subsequent withdrawal applications
requests for replenishments to the Special Account on a monthly basis. All withdrawal applications will
be fully supported by appropriate supporting documentation (i.e. invoices, receipts, or other evidence of
payment) except for those expenditures for contracts not subject to prior review and for which the Bank
has approved the use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), as referred to in the Loan Agreement and the
Disbursement Letter. COFOPRI will be responsible for preparing and submittingwithdrawal applications
to the Bank. All supporting documentation of withdrawal applications (including those for which SOEs
are used) should be retained by the PCU and be available for review by Bank supervision missions and
independent auditors.

Withdrawal from the loan account could be made on the basis of SOEs for the following expenditures:
(a) contracts for goods costing less than US$250,000 equivalent, (b) contracts for consulting firms costing
less than US$200,000; (c) contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$lOO,OOO, and (d) all ,
training andoperating costs.

Report-based disbursements: Inthe case that withdrawals of loan proceeds are made using report-based
Disbursements, the Bank will deposit into the Special Account an amount which the Bank has
determined, basedon FMRs submitted, that i s requiredinorder to finance eligible expenditures duringthe
period (no more than 6 months) followingthe reporting period of suchFMRs.

In addition to the core FMRs (previously mentioned) for the purposes of report-based disbursements, the
following additional reports have been discussed, and format and content will be agreed upon before
implementationof Report-baseddisbursements if COFOPRIrequests to transition into this mechanism:


     0   Special Account Activity Statement
     0   Summary Statement of Special Account Expenditures (for those expenditures subject to prior
         review)
     0   Summary Statement of Special Account Expenditures (for those expenditures which are not
         subject to Bank prior review)
     0  Forecast of expenditures for next two reportingperiod (i.e. 6 months)

Inthe casereport-baseddisbursements,COFOPRIshouldsubmitwithdrawalapplications asfollows:

     (a) Initial Withdrawal Application: A request for withdrawal of loan funds using the appropriate
         form (1903) provided by the Bank, along with the Project's expenditures forecast for the next two
        reporting periods.

     (b) Subsequent Withdrawal Applications: A request for withdrawal of Loan proceeds using the
         appropriate form (1903) provided by the Bank, along with the FMRs for the period ended, the

                                                   63

         Special Account Activity Statement (including Bank statement), and any other applicable
         Summary Statement of Special Account Expenditures, and forecast for next two reporting
         periods.

Under this mechanism, only the reports listed above are submitted to the Bank with the withdrawal
applications. All documents supporting the reported expenditures should be maintained by COFOPRI
and made available for review by Bank supervision missions and external auditors.

Other disbursement methods will be available for COFOPRI to withdraw the proceeds the Loan such as
direct payments to consultants and service providers, and reimbursement to COFOPRI for pre-financing
the Bank's share of Project expenditures. These have been discussedand agreed duringnegotiations and
will be set out inthe Disbursement Letter.




                                     Table 2. Allocation of LoanProceeds

       ExpenditureCategory               Amount inUS$(millions)         FinancingPercentage
1. Goods                                          4.58                         65%
2. Consultants' services(including                14.05                        65%
audits)
3. Training                                       3.65                         65%
4. OperatingCosts                                 2.65                         65%

          Interestduringconstruction               0
                       Front-endFee               0.06
                                Total              25




                                                       64

                                 Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
                PERU: REALPROPERTYRIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in
the Loan Agreement. The general description of the procurement of various items under different
expenditure categories are described below. For each contract to be financed by the Loan, the different
procurement methods or consultant selection methods, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and
time-frame will be agreed between COFOPRI-SUNARP and the Bank Project team in the Procurement
Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual Project
implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.

Procurement of Works. No major civil works will be financed during project implementation. Minor
works to be procuredunder this Project will consist of the refurbishment of existent COFOPRI-SUNARP
building infrastructure to improve the functionality of formalization, registrykadastre layouts and to make
operational the filing systems for document reception and handling at the central and local offices.
However, as these civil works will be financed out of counterpart resources no procurement provisions
have been included inthe Loan Agreement.

Procurement of Goods. Goods and services (other than consultants' services) to be procured under this
Project will include office equipment, furniture, and ICT equipment (computers, printers, servers,
software). To the extent possible, procurement of goods will be grouped in packages with estimated
values of US$250,000 equivalent or more and contracted under International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures and Bank standard bidding documents. Contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000
equivalent but more than US$50,000 equivalent per contract shall be procuredunder NCB and standard
biddingdocuments agreedupon with the Bank. Contracts estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or less
per contract may be procured using National Shopping (NS) procedures based on the attainment of at
least three quotations from qualified domestic suppliers and the use of a model request for quotations
agreedupon with the Bank.

Procurement of non-consulting services. Under this category of contracts, software support and
maintenance services; network manager support and maintenance; software antivirus, printing, internet
service provision, and broadcasting services will be financed by the project. Non-consulting services will
be procured followingNCB procedures when contract values are above US$50,000; for contracts equal to
$50,000 or less per contract the use of Shopping procedures through price comparison of at least three
responsive quotations obtained from local qualified suppliers will be allowed. For each of those methods,
the PCU will use standardbiddingdocuments acceptable to the Bank.

Selection of Consultants. Consulting services for the employment of firms and individuals under this
Project will be procuredinthe following areas of expertise: studies on planning, management, monitoring
and evaluation, formalization and registrykadastre administration and operation, selection and evaluation
of staff, software development and training. These services would be procured using Bank's Standard
Request for Proposals for selection of consulting firms, and standard documents agreed upon with the
Bank for selection of individual consultants.

Firms. All contracts for hiring of consultant firms estimated at US$lOO,OOO equivalent or more will be
procured using Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS); small and simple contracts estimated to cost


                                                     65

less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent may be procured with use of the QCBS, QBS, Consultant Qualifications
(CQ), Fixed-Budget Selection (FBS), or Least Cost (LCS) methods.

Individuals.Specialized advisory services, such as legal, regulatory and institutional reform proposals;
communication plans, policy advisory; specialized training to municipality staff; design of M&Esystems;
design of information, communications and dissemination campaigns; design and production of
educational modules on urban property formalization; training in cadastral technologies to technical staff;
design of training workshops to micro-enterprises and citizens on urban property formalization;
diagnostics for the identification of financial institutions and existing market areas of intervention for
property formalization and management model designs; baseline studies on municipal cadastres and
impact evaluation; design of technical standards on cadastral and formalization processes; design of
baseline surveys; and consulting services of a continuous nature to the PCU in project management,
coordination, monitoring and evaluation, technical, and administrative support areas, inter alia, will be
provided by individual consultants selected by comparison of qualifications of at least three candidates
and hiredin accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.

OperatingCosts and Training. Incremental operating costs will be those related to the PCU operation;
training services will entail the conducting of seminars and workshops, including instructional materials,
per diem and transportation. Whenever goods and services of a training and operational nature are
available in sufficient numberto allow for competition, they will be procured following national shopping
(NS) procedures.

B. Summary of the assessment ofthe agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by COFOPRI. The PCU i s staffed by 16 members and the
procurement unit will be staffed by 2 procurement officers. PCU will gradually incorporate the following
staff 1 M&E Coordinator; 1 Social & Economic Analysis Specialist; 1 Treasury Officer; 1 Assets
Management & Control Assistant; 1Administrative Assistant. The Operational Manual will include, in
addition to the project procurement and administrative procedures, the Bank Standard Bidding
Documents for procurement of goods under ICB procedures and project standard documents for
procurement of works and goods under NCB, and shopping procedures, acceptable to the Bank. Also, the
Bank Standard Request for Proposals for selection of consultant firms under QCBS method as well as
sample form of contract for employment of individual consultants will be included inthe manual.

An assessmentof COFOPRI's capacity to implement procurement actions for the project has beencarried
out by Keisgner D. Alfaro on 06/22/2005. The assessment reviewed the PCU's organizational structure
for implementing the project and the interaction between the Project's staff responsible for procurement
and other Project administrative areas supporting PCU along the project cycle.

Most of the issues/risks concerning the procurement component for implementation of the Project have
been identified and include the lack o f i)an experienced procurement staff assigned to PCU and; ii)an
integrated project information system requiredto enable timely project monitoring, control and reporting
which may hinder efficient decision-making processes.

The corrective measures which have been agreed are: i)COFOPRI will hire an experienced procurement
officer, not later than end of December 2005, to ensure adequate Project procurement coordination,
 supervision and technical assistanceto COFOPRI's executing units and staff, and SUNARP; ii)the Bank
will provide basic procurement training to project staff from both COFOPRI and SUNARP not later than
project launching mission; and iii)COFOPRI will implement in full an integrated project management
information system (PMIS) on the .basis of country systems already developed by GoP which shall have
the capacity to register all procurement and related financial management not later than six (6) months
 after the project has been declared effective.

                                                      66

The overall project risk for procurement is AVERAGE

C.ProcurementPlan

PCU developed an 18-month procurement plan which provided the basis for contract grouping, Project
costing and identification of procurement and selection methods to be used (per Table A8.1). The plan
was.reviewed and cleared by the RPM Office and it is available at COFOPRI's and the Bank's web
pages.

Duringproject implementation, the implementing agencies and the Bank team will meet periodically to
review and assess progress achieved in executing the procurement plan. The Borrower shall update the
procurement plan on an annual basis, or as needed, and always cover the next 18-month period of project
implementation. The Bank will disclose the initial procurement plan and COFOPRI shall advertise
subsequent updated versions in Development Business, newspapers and other available publishing
sources. The PCU shall not take any procurement action before the Bank no objection is provided.
                 Table A.8.1: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPrior Review*

                             Contract Value
Expenditure Category            Threshold          Procurement Method           Contracts Subject to Prior Review
                             (US$ thousands)                                                (US$ thousands)
1. Goods andNon-          Contract =>250          ICB                       All
ConsultingServices
                          250 >Contract >50       NCB                       First 2 contracts; andannualreviewof
                                                                            procurementplan

                          Contract <= 50          NationalShopping          First 2 contracts; and annual review of
                                                                            procurementplan.

                                                                            Post-review:Randomsample of contracts

2. Consulting Services
andTraining
2.1 Firms                 Contract= > 100          QCBS                     Contracts= > $200, including TOR, RFP,
                                                                            shortlist of firms, fullreviewof technicaland
                                                                            finalevaluationreports, andfinal negotiated
                                                                            contract.

                          Contract< 100            QCBS, LCS, CQ, FBS       TOR andestimatedvalue of contract; and
                                                   or SSS                    annualreview of selectionplan.
                                                                             Post-review:Randomsample of contracts

                                                                             Contracts = > 100, including TOR, CVs, and
2.2 Individuals           Contract = > 100         IC                        Formof Contract

                                                                             TOR andestimatedvalue of contract;
                                                                             selectionprocessas requiredby the Bank,
                          Contract< 100            IC, andSSS                and annual review of selectionplan
                                                                             Postreview: Randomsample of contracts
*Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult Operational Directive (OD) 11.04, "Review of
Procurement Documentation," and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.

                             Total value of contracts subject to prior review: [$5.7 mill]


D. FrequencyofProcurementSupervision




                                                          67

Consistent with the findings of the agency capacity assessment, it is recommended that the Bank carry out
procurement supervision once a year in order to ensure that Project implementation reflects satisfactory
performance, especially during the first year; the supervision plan should also include a special mission
for procurement supervision at any critical point of Project implementation. Before implementation gets
started, the Bank will assist the PCU in the upstart activities by identifying and providing training
opportunities to key staff in procurement under Bank guidelines and procedures.

E.Post Review Ratio

In addition to prior-review and supervision tasks to be carried out by field-assigned Bank staff, the
capacity assessment of the PCU has recommended one supervision mission every twelve (12) months,
including one post review mission of procurement actions a year. Based on the overall risk assessment,
the post-review ratio should cover a field sample of no less than 1in 10signed contracts.

This ratio could be adjusted during Project implementation depending on the performance of the agency
and the results of the reviews.




                                                     68

      Attachment 1

      Details of the Procurement Arrangement involving internationalcompetition.


      1.        Goods, Works and non-consulting services.

      (a) List of contract Packages which will be procured following ICBand Direct Contracting:

 1                    2                     3            4          5       6            7            8        9

Ref.              Contract              Estimated    Procurement   P-Q Domestic        Review     Expected   Comments
No.             (Description)           Cost (US$)     Method          Preferenc      by Bank        Bid-
                                                                            e       (Prior/ Post)  Opening
                                                                        (yeslno)                    Date
LPIl Hardware: Computer equipment      1,571,726    ICB                Yes          Prior         0511012006
     & accessories
LPI2 GPS Equipment Acquisition         462,059      ICB                Yes          Prior         0911912006
     (GPS: Work station, receptors,
     Antennas, central-level
     administrationequipment,
     equipment andfield stations
     installation,distance
     measurement equipment,prisms
     andsupporting devices)

LPI3 SOFTWARE                           1,005,571   ICB                Yes          Prior         09/19/2006

LPI4 Satelliteimagery                   603,187     ICB                Yes          Prior         10110/2006

D1   Installationandsetup of GPS        990,000     DC                 No           Prior         10126/2006
     measuringequipment. Specialized
     work that can only be done by
     IGN. Eachnetwork access point
     costs $400 and includes:
     installation,setup, personal
     expense and measurement
     equipment use for 4,955 stations


      (b) ICB Contracts estimatedto cost above $250,000 for procurement of goods (and services other
      than consultant services) per contract andeachcontract awardedthrough Direct Contracting will be
      subject to prior review by the Bank.

      2.         Consulting Services.

      (a) List of Consulting Assignments with short-list of international firms.

         1 1                 2                   3             4           5              6              7

      Ref.      Descriptionof Assignment   Estimated       Selection  Review         Expected      Comments
      No.                                  Cost            Method     by Bank        Proposals
                                                                      (Prior / Post) Submission
                                                                                     Date
      F1        Development of an urban    $450,169.00     QCBS       Prior          0712412006
                propertyregistry system
      F2        Trainingto managerial      $300,000        QCBS       Prior          0712412006
                level staff



                                                            69

F3    Web-basedapplications      $3 15,000      Wss         Prior         09/02/2007
       development for registry
       disseminationand
       advertisement ( to be
       executedduringthe 2ndand
       3rdyear of project
       implementation)



(b) Consultancy services for employment of firms estimatedto cost above $200,000 per contract;
$100,000 per contract for employment of individual consultants; and contracts awarded with the use
of Single Source Selection of consultants (firms or individuals) will be subject to prior review by
the Bank.

(c) Short lists composedentirely of nationalconsultants: Short lists of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national
consultants inaccordancewith the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.




                                                 70

                            Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis

             PERU: REALPROPERTY RIGHTSCONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

SUMMARY

This annex presents the net economic benefits to be derived from the Project. The Project involves
total costs of US$41.7 million and generates a diverse set of benefits. However, in the economic
analysis that follows, the calculation of the net present value of the Project only considers the direct
costs and benefits:

    (a)    the costs usedinthis analysis are those that bear directly on property formalization and on
           the functioning of the property registration system (Components 2 and 3). These are
           estimated at US$35.2 million (84.5% of total Project costs). The items considered in the
           estimate of direct costs, and their respective weight, are the following: accessible quality
           registration services (3 1.2%), national integrated system of land cadastre information
           (11.4%) and, decentralized formalization and cadastre services (57.4%). The following
           cost items were not included: (i)  integrated property right policies (US$0.7 million); (ii)
           communications and public education (US$2.8 million); (iii)     market-relevant information
           (US$0.9 million), and (iv) Project Management (US$2.1 million); and

     (b)   only direct economic benefits were considered. These are expected to arise from the
           increased value of immovable properties attributable to tenure formalization (US$206.3
           million). The Project also results in a series of indirect benefits; however, due to the fact
           that they are not easily quantifiable, they are described but not included in the calculation
           of the economic rate of return of the Project. These indirect benefits have been classified
           under the following categories: reduction in titling costs, fiscal impact and other indirect
           benefits.

Table 1 shows a summary of the benefits and costs (in net present value) related to the Project
activities.

                                Table 1.Summaryof Benefitsand Costs

                   Flow                                   NetPresentValue of Flows
                   ExpectedProjectBenefits                     US$122.2million

                   ExpectedProjectCosts                        US$29.89 million

                   Net Benefits                                US$72.6million



 This annex is organized in three sections. Section 1 presents the Project economic analysis
 includingthe calculation of net direct benefits, its economic rate of return and sensitivity analysis;
 Section 2 discusses the indirect benefits of the Project and Section 3 covers the financial impact of
 the Project on SUNARP.

 1. EconomicAnalysis
 The net present value of the Project (NPV) and its internal rate of return (IRR) are calculated on the
 basis of an estimate of the direct costs and benefits of the Project. The sensitivity analysis
 considered usingalternative scenarios of reductions ineconomic benefits.


                                                    71

      1.1.Direct Costs

      The costs used inthe economic analysis are those that bear directly on land formalization and onthe
      functioning of the land registration system. In order to be able to compare the results with those
      from other countries, the analysis only considers costs that are directly associated with
      formalization. Total Project Costs amount to US$41.9 million, but these include costs directly
      related to formalization, as well as other costs. The following direct costs are included: area-based
      systematic land formalization, titling, registration and cadastre activities, and development of the
      technological platforms associated to each activity. These direct Project costs, as estimated by
      COFOPRI, total US$35.2 million, of which US$11.O million relate to accessiblequality registration
      services, US$20.2 million refer to decentralized formalization and cadastre, and the remaining
      US$4.0 million are for the development of a national integrated system of land cadastre
      information. The details of these cost components are shown in Table 2. Treated as a flow over five
      years, these costs have a net present value (NPV) of US$29.89 million.

                                            Table 2. Direct Project Costs
                                                  (inUS$dollars)


                       Items                             Initial
                                                       Investment     2o05      2006       2007      2008       TOTAL




I  3.1   Real Property RegistrySystemInformation     I    1'216,52212'802,8061 2'802,8061 2'962,8061 1'214,2691 10'999,2091

   3.2   RealProperty DemarcationSystems                    806,667   853,334  1'339,999    733,333    266,667  4'000,000

                         Total                           9'472,340 8'703,138   8'395,456  5'972,128 2'684,646 35'227,708


      Source: COFOPRI

      1.2. Direct Benefits

      Direct economic benefits are expected from the increased value of immovable properties
      attributable to formalization of tenure. Increased property value due to formalization i s a summary
      indicator of the capitalized value of three major types of benefits associated with formalization:
      improved investment incentives, marketability, and ability to use the land as collateral for loans.
      Estimating the magnitudes of these expected increases i s a complex issue for a national program
      involving a heterogeneous set of properties. A wide range of factors influences property values -
      location, access to public services, size, value of construction, alternative use of the property-   each
      of which interact with tenure status. Controlling for these factors, the difference in value between
      similar formalized and informal properties i s a good indicator of the economic benefit of
      formalization.

      The preferred methodology to estimate this difference in value would be to compare values based
      on data of actual transaction prices, controlling for variation of the characteristics of the negotiated
      properties. Nonetheless, this approach has some difficulties, including a selection bias because it



                                                         72

would only consider the properties that were actually transacted, and it i s impossible to compile
reliable and complete transaction data (many transactions still occur outside of the registry system).

An alternative way of measuring the impact of titling on property prices, employed inthis analysis,
i s the methodology known as hedonic prices. This methodology was developed in the 1970s and i s
based on calculating the implicit prices of the attributes of a certain good that are revealed by the
agents (in this case property owners in areas subject to formalization) from observed prices.
Accordingly, the methodology assumes that goods are valued becauseof their attributes as statedby
the beneficiaries2*.Followingthis methodology, the price of a property i s explained as a function of
a set of features. One of these features i s the availability of a valid and duly registered property title
(such as the one issued by COFOPRI as part of the formalization process).

The estimates arebasedon a survey and a study commissionedby COFOPR123.The data, collected
inJune2003, includes a set of owner-defined property values andfeaturesthat canbeusedto
measurethe expected economic impact of titling. The survey was applied to 3,337 householders in
Lima, Arequipa, Cusco, Trujillo and Huaraz.

Direct economic benefits are estimated in a two-step process. First, the number of properties to be
titled by the Project is identified. Second, an estimate of the additional property value increment
associated with formalization of tenure is generated, based on an empirical examination of
formalized properties. This stream of direct benefits can then be discounted to calculate the net
present value and an internal rate of return.

1.2.1. Number of Properties to be Titled

According to COFOPRI estimates, the Project will formalize an estimated 769,805 properties of
which 513,911 will result in individual property titles. The annual projection of the number of
properties to be titled under the Project i s shown inTable 3.



                                2005         2006        2007         2008        2009       Total
       Propertiesto be titled
       underthe Project        100,000      100,000     100,000      100,000     113,911     513,911



These properties are classified as shown in Table 4 according to the legal status of their tenure prior
to formalization. In other words, by the type of proof of ownership heldby the possessor or owner.
Because, as shown in the study commissioned by COFOPRI, beneficiaries do not distinguish
between a valid and duly registered COFOPRI title and other proofs of ownership (a contract, a title
provided by the Municipality or by the association of homeowners of a particular township). Thus,
the proper application of the methodology assumes that the direct economic benefits of
formalization only affect those properties that did not have any type of proof of ownership prior to
the formalization by COFOPRI. During Project preparation it was assumed that the tenure




22  Rosen, Sherwin, "Hedonic Prices and Implicit Markets:Product Differentiation in PureCompetition" in
 TheJournal of Political Economy, Vol. 82, No. 1, 1974,pp. 34-55.
23  Apoyo Consultoria, "Estudio parael diseiiode un sistemade informacicinde precios del mercado
 inmobiliariourbanomarginale implementacicindel mismo", PDPU/ COFOPRI, Lima, 2003.


                                                    73

characteristics of the properties to be formalized under this Project follow the same pattern as the
properties formalized under the UPRP.      24


                 Table 4. Number of properties to be titled classified by tenure status'

              Tenure Status                              Properties to be     % of total
                                                           formalized
              Without registeredtitle or any other
               proof of ownership                            223,037            43.4%
              With titles or proofs of ownership
               grantedby public entities other than          87,879             17.1%
               COFOPRI
               With prior registeredtitle andrevised
               and validated by COFOPRI                      200,425            39.0%
               Others                                         2,570              0.5%
               Total                                         513,911             100%



As shown inTable 4, about 43.4% of the properties to be formalized under the Project are expected
to have no title or proof of ownership. It is estimated that the remaining 56.6% will already have
another title or proof of property prior to formalization. However, they are still considered in the
Project becausein some cases these titles are not registered, and in others further work i s neededby
COFOPRI to incorporate it into the geo-referenced cadastre.

1.2.2. Estimateof the IncrementalPropertyValue dueto Formalization

This section is based on the methodological approach of the 2003 study commissioned by
COFOPRI and uses its results as well as data on property prices collected in a 2003 survey. Owner-
defined prices of residential properties were included in the Project sample. The premium for land
formalization can be deducted from a model of residentialproperty prices that partially controls the
factors that make property prices differ. In the model, the following categories of regressors are
included:

    a   Value of the parcel without construction or title
    b Value of the construction andfinishings
    c   Value of the location features
    d Value of the property title
    e   Value of the alternative use of the property
    f Value of thefamily socio-economic characteristics
    g Location of the property

The value of the property title i s the most relevant variable in this analysis because it allows
measuring the additional predicted value of a COFOPRI title as opposed to other titles or proofs of
ownership. Thus, it could be used as a proxy to determine the direct economic benefit of
COFOPRI's formalization efforts. Several variables were available in the database to be used as
proxies for other categories. On the basis of bi-variable regressions, it was possible to select the
final independent variables of the model. Table 5 shows the variables used in the model and their
main descriptive statistics.


24COFOPRIcarried out pilot projects inthree of the cities to be coveredunder the Projectto confirm that the
patternobserved in the first projectis likely to remainunchanged.


                                                      74

                                 Table 5. Descriptive Variables of the Model


              Category                       Proxy variables                       Standard
                                                                      Mean        Deviation      N
 1. Value of the parcel without          1.1.Implicit price with
 construction or title                  no construction or title     1,801.73        2,268     3,251

 2. Value of the construction and       2.1. Construction              10.32          3.37     3,297
 finishing                               materials index

                                         2.2. Numberof rooms           3.89           2.22      3,336
 3. Value of the location features       3.1. Quality of
                                         pavement                      3.02           1.08      3,336
 4. Value of property title              4.1 Holding a property
                                         title                         0.70           0.46      3,337
 5. Value of the alternative use of the
 property                                5.1. Garage availability      0.11           0.32      3,337

 6. Value of the family socio
 economic characteristics                6.1. Socioeconomic
                                         level                          1.20          0.82      3,228

                                         7.1. Lima- North              0.16           0.36      3,337
                                         7.2. Lima- South              0.15           0.36      3,337

 7. Property location                    7.3. Lima- East               0.15           0.36      3,337
                                         7.4. Arequipa                 0.18            0.38     3,337
                                         7.5. Trujillo                  0.18           0.39     3,337
                                         7.6. Cusco                     0.09           0.29     3,337
                                         7.7. Huaraz                    0.09           0.29     3,337

Fromthe available data, a sub sample of 1,419 observations was considered in the final model since
it was necessary to ignore missing values, rented properties and households that did not report
tenure status andor answers related to property price. More details on the variables used are
presentedin Appendix 1.
                   1                  I     Table 6. Model Summary
                                                          I                   I
                      RSquared           AdjustedR          Std.Errorof
                                           Squared          the Estimate
                         0.5451       I Nonavailable      I Non available     I      1,419
                     a Predictors: (Constant) Implicit price of the property without title or
                     construction, construction materials index, number of rooms, pavement
                       quality, holding of property title, garage availability, family socio-
                                             economic level, location.

Estimate results are presented in Tables 6 and 7. The model presents a high R squared statistic
(0.55). This result i s unusually high considering typical results found in econometric models that
employ, as in this case, cross-sectional data. Additionally, Table 6 shows that coefficients
associatedwith the explanatory variables presentthe expected behavior and are highly relevant.




                                                        75

                              Table 7. Estimation results from the model I'



                          Model                 Unstandardized
                                                   Coefficients                1
                                          I                               t       c:*
                                                B       I             I        I
                                                        I

                                                           Std.Error




              IIILima-North                   4,410.85         878.07     5.02     0.000 1
                 Lima- South                  5,319.28         712.61     7.46     0.000 I
              I Lima-    East             I1I 3,625.81  I1I    747.80 I1I  4.85I1I 0.000 I
                 Arequipa                 I   2,259.70   1     616.59 I    3.66 I  0.000 ]
                 Trujillo                      1,23 1.19       670.87      1.84    0.067
                 cusco                        4,065.89         857.57      4.74    0.000
                 (Constant)                   4371.13         1,301.79     3.51    0.000


This modelprovides an estimate of an additional value of US$925 for property title. This represents
an incrementalvalue of 25% interms of the average value of the properties without title considered
inthe regression sample (US$3,680).

Further estimates were made in order to determine whether the possessionof more than one type of
title or proof of property has any additional effect on the incremental value previously calculated.
Likewise, it was also tested whether the holding of a COFOPRI title offers a distinct marginal value
with respect to other titles or proofs of ownership. In all cases, the proposed hypotheses were
disproved. Thus, it appears that the formalized population cannot distinguish the benefits of a
COFOPRItitle from those of other titles or proofs of property.

According to the results of the econometric analysis, only the properties in which there was no other
title or proof of ownership prior to formalization gain value immediately after being titled. The
owner-defined property values of parcels which already had other title or proof of property, do not
change the value perception. This does not imply that a COFOPRI title does not add value to a
property, only that it i s not perceived as such by the beneficiaries because they do not understand
the difference between a valid and duly registered COFOPRI title and other proofs of ownership.
With a stronger registry culture it i s very likely that the model results would vary as the population
would distinguish between different types of titles/proofs and grant a higher value to COFOPRI
titles.

The following table shows the estimate of direct economic benefits using the number of urban
properties with non-registered title to be formalized under the Project. Inthe analysis it i s assumed




                                                     76

    that the number of properties with non-registered title represents the same percentage of the total
    along the Project (43.4%).



                                     Estimated property                           Estimated Maximum
    Tenure Status                    value premium of       NO. OFPROPERTIES       Potential Benefit of




    1.3. Net Present Value of Benefits and Costs, and Sensitivity Analysis

    The empirical analysis suggests that the gain in property value is produced immediately after
    formalization, but in reality the benefit to the economy from the investment accrues over time as the
    increased value of formalized properties is realized through sales turnover. Accordingly, benefits
    can be assumedto be realized over a 20 year time period. The total maximumpotential increment in
    property values is US$206,309,225. If we assume that three percent of properties are sold annually
    the resulting annual financial benefit is approximately US$6.81 million. The projection assumes
    that the total benefit i s distributed evenly over a 20-year period, beginning the second year of the
    project. Given the increment in property values after titling, the Project yields an estimated total
    economic benefit of approximately US$122.6 million. Considering the costs indicated in the first
    section of this Annex, the total net economic benefit is US$93.9. million (see Table 9 to review the
    distribution of the net benefits throughout the Project life). Usinga discount rate of 12percent, this
    yields a net present value of economic benefits of US$72.6 million. It representsan internal rate of
    return (IRR) of 20 percent on the investment.




              Initial
           Investment         2005         2006         2007         2008        2009        2010-
                                                                                             2025       Total
Benefits        0               0           6.8          6.8         6.8          6.8        102.2      122.6
costs          -9.7            -8.7         -8.4        -6.0         -2.7          0           0        -35.2
Net
Benefits       -9.7            -8.7         -1.6     0.8             4.1          6.8        102.2      93.9



    2. IndirectEconomic Benefits

    This section presents a description of a series of indirect economic benefits related to the Project:
    reduction in titling costs, fiscal impact and other indirect benefits (access to credit and use of real
    property as collateral, impact of improved registration culture, effects of formalization on the labor
    markets and increased work hours, impact on gender, and other social benefits). These indirect
    benefits are difficult to quantify and therefore have not been included in the stream of economic
    benefits of the Project.



                                                        77

2.1 ReductioninTitlingCosts

The second main area of benefits expectedfrom the Project i s the reduction of transaction costs and
the consequent savings from increased efficiency of titling. Because they are intangible, these
benefits were not includedinthe benefit-cost analysis.

In "The Other Path"2s, the Institute for Liberty and Democracy (ILD) estimated in US$2,156 the
formalization costs in the mid-1980s. No further information on transaction costs without the
Projects is available. The UPRP showed that it i s possible to issue titles for less than traditional
methods, resulting in average costs of US$62 per property in urban areas26.This estimate results
from the total costs of the UPRPProject divided by the number of titles issued (inthe period 1996 -
2003). This saving was possible due to the processes designed under the UPW.Thus, formalization
duration was reduced from 6 years and 11 months (which implied 207 steps at 52 governmental
offices) to only 45 days, 30 steps and 4 organizations involved.27

During the preparation of the UPRP, standards to measure the cost of issuing and recording
property titles were adopted (US$35 for COFOPR12* and US$15 for RPU2'), based on the
experience of the pilot project carried out in Lima between 1996-1997. Performance measurement
has shown that costs generally increased as formalization entered more complex areas and the
economies of scale of massive procedures were reduced. As indicated in the Implementation
Completion Report of the UPRP, the titling costs increasedfrom US$43.3 in year 2000, to US$49.8
in2001, US$55.4 in2002 andUS$62.00 in2003, while the registrationcosts initially dropped from
US$14.60 in 2000 to US$5.6 in 2001, and then increased in 2002 to US$7.1, and in 2003 to
US$32.730.

According to the costs estimated for this Project, average title cost would be US$75.7 and this
estimate can reasonably be used to calculate the reduction in formalization costs versus a scenario
of formalization based on conventional methods. The result i s presented in the following table,
indicating a reduction in costs of US$1,069.1 million versus a counter-factual scenario of
formalization using traditional methods (this calculation considers that this Project will regularize
approximately 513,911 properties, as indicated above). This cannot be regarded as a direct savings
because absent the Project many of these properties would never be formalized at the cost of


25De Soto, Hernando, "El otro sendero". EditorialElBarranco, Lima, 1986.
26 Morris, Felipe, et al., "La Formalizacidn de la Propiedad en el Perb: Develando el Misterio", COFOPRI /
World Bank, Lima, 2004.
27Apoyo Consultoria (2002) "Estudio de estrategia de largo plazo de COFOPRI", PDPU/ COFOPRI, Lima.
28 These included COFOPRI costs directly related to formalization, like public servant salaries, individual
contractors' fees, outsourcing costs and operational costs of mapping, office establishment and other direct
operational costs; and exclude capital costs such as office refurbishment, furniture, equipment and
information technology.
29 RPUcosts included public servant salaries, individual contractors' fees, outsourcing costs and operational
costs of mapping, office establishment and other direct operational costs; and excluded capital costs such as
office refurbishment, furniture, equipment and information technology.
30 Titling cost increases under the UPRP had several explanations:    (i) costestimateswerebasedonthe
                                                                         initial
experience of one city (Lima) which accounted for more than 40% of the real estate properties to be
formalized and that prioritized huge areas with high lot concentration and relatively low complexity; (ii)
extension of the project area to six new urban centers did not allow to continue massive processes; (iii) more
complex areas neededlonger and more expensive processes; and (iv) decentralized operations involvedhigher
costs. The evolution of registration costs suggests that during the first years of the UPRP a special effort was
made to transfer and close the entries contained in RPI, and building a geo-referenced base, while during 2001
to 2002 RPUwas focused in the review and recording of property titles submitted by COFOPRI. The increase
in2003 could be explained as a result of the merger of RPU and RPI.


                                                       78

conventional methods. Therefore the benefit has to be viewed as additional saving to the Project
beneficiaries arising from more efficient formalization processes. Since no recent information on
the formalization costs without the Project i s available (i.e. the US$2,156 figure obtained from the
De Soto study i s of 1986) it was decided not to include these benefits inthe calculation of the direct
impact of the Project.




                                          Cost savings per unit
               Number of properties       versus conventional        Total cost savings
                                             methods (US$)              (US$ million)
                      513,911                   2,080.30                  1,069.09

2.2. FiscalImpactof the Project

Municipalities are expected to obtain incremental revenues due to the increase in the number of
formalized properties in each municipal jurisdiction subject to municipal fees and taxes. The
magnitude of these revenues will vary among municipalities. These revenue streams will also be
monitored as part of the Project to understand their financial impact and the differences among
municipalities.

Revenue increases perceived by local governments will be collected from two sources: transfer tax
and property tax. In the first case, not enough data i s available to make appropriate calculations.
With respectto property tax, Table 11shows the relevant tax rates. Payment frequency is annual.

                                      Table 11.Property Tax Rates"

                                                                Tax Rate
                         Property value > 15 Tax Unit             0.60%
                         Property value < 15 Tax Unit             0.20%




Table 12 shows the distribution and average property values of the properties formalized by
COFOPRIunder the UPRP,according to the database developed under the 2003 study.

              Table 12. Classification of properties of the database with COFOPRI'stitle
                                             (inUS$ dollars)




                         Unit                      13.80%                   25,416


                         Unit

The information on Table 13 was extrapolated to the Project, obtaining an estimate of the
distribution of the properties to be formalized disaggregated by property value using criteria related
to the differential property tax rate.




                                                   79

                          Table 13. Properties to be titled under the Project
                                        (number of properties)




Based on these numbers, Table 14 estimated the revenues under the Project attributable to the
property tax. An evasion rate equal to 50% has been assumed. It is estimated that the Project would
generate incremental revenues of about US$18 million between 2005 and 2009 to the
municipalities. From 2010 onwards, the municipalities would generate additional revenues of
US$6.8 million per year due to the Project. These estimated benefits have not been included in the
streamof Project benefits.

                             Table 14. Revenues associatedto property tax
                                            (inUS$ million)

                                    2005         2006          2007          2008     2009
       Propertyvalue > 15 Tax
       Unit                          1.05        2.11          3.16          4.21      5.41
       Propertyvalue < 15 Tax
       Unit                         0.27         0.54          0.80          1.07      1.38

       Total                        1.32         2.64          3.96          5.28      6.79

2.3. Other IndirectBenefits

Access to credit and use of real estateproperty as collateral

The Project i s also expected to strengthen the positive impact of registration on the beneficiaries'
access to credit and use of real estate property as collateral. The experience of the UPRP in this
respect has been very positive. In the case of mortgages in formalized areas, Graph 1 shows that
there i s a steady and significant increase in the number of mortgages registered in RPU/SUNARP.
The number of mortgages registered increased 106% between 2000 and 2003, with yearly increases
of lo%, 45% and 28% respectively. In the first half of 2004 almost 8,000 new mortgages were
registered.




                                                   80

                             DeCmbw 2030   December 2W1  December PO02  Dec~mberM03    June 2034

                          Source: SUNARP

Mortgage values informalized areas have also increasedin the past few years as shown in Graph 2.
Mortgage volumes in dollar terms increased from US$66 million in 2000 to US$136 million in
2003. Duringthe first half of 2004 about US$SS million dollars in new mortgages in formalized
areas were registered in SUNARP. This information on number of mortgages and mortgage
volumes in formalized areas registered in the public registry i s clearly a benefit that can be
associatedto the formalization effort. Had these properties not been formalized it would have been
impossible to mortgage them.




                          December 2000   December2001    December2002    December2003       June 2004

                     Source: SUNARP

In addition to mortgage numbers and volumes in dollar terms, the Project is also expected to
increase the access of credit in general to the formalized population. Comparable information
showing trends in this respect under the UPRP i s shown in Graphs 3 and 4. Before 1999-2000 no
information was available about the number and amount of credits granted to the recently
formalized population because the Central de Znformacidn Positiva (CIP) became operational only
in 2000. CIP is a database system that provides financial institutions and the market at large
information regarding the creditworthiness potential of the formalized sector. CIP shows that from a
universe of 1,421,113 titleholders identified, 522,646 receive a formal income. Thus, there are a



                                                           81

significant number of prospective clients that makes attractive the low-income segment to the
financial system.

While it is not possible to prove causality between the UPW and these increasesin number of loans
and loan amounts to formalized owners, the data shows a steady increase, explained at least
partially by the formalization effort. It is expected that a similar positive trend will result from the
Project.The Project will also include a study of the impact of credit on the formalized population to
try to determine causality and other effects more precisely.

                    Graph3. Number of credits grantedto formalized beneficiaries
                                                   (inthousands)



                     250



                     2w



                      150



                      i w


                       50



                        0
                           December2000  DecemberxK1i  December2w2  December xK13   June 2004

                          Source: COFOPRI/ SBS

Graph 3 shows the evolution in the number of credits to formalized beneficiaries between
December 2000 and June 2004. Figures refer to beneficiaries with loans outstanding as of each date
not new borrowings during the same period (they are stock rather than flow figures as opposed to
the data in Graphs 1 and 2 that referred to information on flows of mortgages). As of June 2004
almost 250,000 formalized beneficiaries had credit from the financial system, compared to 150,000
in December 2000. It is worth indicating that there is no breakdown available of the loans by type
(working capital, housing loans, project financing, and consumer credit) that would give as a better
indication of the extent to which this increased access to credit i s linkedto economic activity in the
formalized areas or increasedconsumption.




                                                         82

                                Graph 4. Total loans to COFOPRIbeneficiaries
                                                      (inUS$million)




                        2 5 0 4 -




                          O     C
                                December 2000  Oecembi 2.301  December2W2  DecemberMo3   June 2W4

                                Source: COFOPRI/ SBS

The volume of loans to formalized beneficiaries has also shown a significant increase between
December 2000 and June 2004, growing from US$ 250 million to US$388 million. Since it i s not
possible to quantify precisely to what extent the Project would improve access to credit and the
resulting economic value, reference is made only to indirect benefits arising from the Project but
they are not includedinthe calculation of the economic analysis of the Project.

Impact of implementing a registration culturepromotion project

Several studies conducted under the UPRP (including the 2003 study mentioned earlier) have
concluded that there i s a lack of registration culture in Peru. Eventually, if this situation were
reverted, the positive impact of the Project would be even greater as was previously discussed.
Thus, in the extreme, the economic benefit calculation should consider not only the number of
properties with no other title or proof of property prior to COFOPRI, but also those with other
forms of proof of ownership and with other titles that require some additional work from
COFOPRI.

Increase in the number of hours available to work

An additional indirect benefit of the Project is the increaseinthe number of work hours available as
a result of the Project, evidenced underthe UPRP. Although this was not originally included among
the benefits expected from the UPRP, an independent survey on the impact of titling labor supply31
found that: (i) formalization, contrary to other State assistanceprograms, allows an easier access of
the beneficiary population to the formal labor market; (ii)                       UPRP reduced the need to generate
income at home because it allowed the beneficiaries to look for a formal job or one with a higher
productivity out of home (because people do not have to stay at home to protect their property); and
(iii)
    formalization i s associated with a 17% increase in the labor hours of beneficiary families and
with a 47% decrease inthe probability of working at home.

Other Social Benefits


31Field, Erica, "Entitled to Work: Urban Property Rights and Labor Supply in Peru", Industrial Relations
SectiodFirestoneLibrary, PrincetonUniversity, 2002.


                                                                83

Another positive effect is the incidence of titling in reducing child work demand3*.Also, from the
total beneficiaries of the formalization program (whether individual titleholders or co-owners)
women represent slightly more than 50%. Nevertheless, when focusing on individual owners, more
than 66% are women.   '  33



3. FinancialImpact on SUNARP

This section attempts to estimate the financial impact of the Project on SUNARP. Property
formalization has a significant potential impact on the finances of SUNARP becauseit affects both
its streams of future costs and revenues. The idea is to quantify the incremental costs to SUNARP
related to the registration of formalized property and related subsequent transactions as well as the
incremental revenues to the institutions due to registration fees in order to determine whether the
formalization Project has a positive or negative financial impact on SUNARP. It i s clear that as a
result of the Project more transactions will be registered in SUNARP than without the Project, thus
overall revenues will increase. Not as clear i s the net impact of the Project on SUNARP's finances.
This depends on whether incremental revenues are higher or lower than incremental costs.
SUNARP is estimating the specific costs of the various types of transactions to determine whether
fee income will be sufficient to cover them. The expectation i s that the Project should result in a net
financial benefit to SUNARP.

As Table 15 shows, SUNARP-RPUcurrently generates a considerable income from fees collected.
Nonetheless at this point the operating costs of SUNARP for processing each type of transaction are
not available, thus they are not includedinthe analysis.




                   I ODeratine Costs                   I          Non available             I

The ongoing analysis would allow a clearer understanding of the gap, if any, between revenues and
costs related to transactions on properties formalized by COFOPRI to determine the need for cross-
subsidies from other clients and for specific measures to improve the productivity and efficiency of
the institutionto reduce its operating costs. It would also provide input to the discussion on whether
it would make sense to implement small adjustments in registration fees to the formalized
population to try to cover the incremental costs of registering various transactions in SUNARP.
This adjustment would only make sense if it is not significant enough as to avoid discouraging the
formalized population from registeringfollow-up transactions.

Preliminary information would indicate that the costs to SUNARP to register typical transactions
 (such as mortgages, sales, and subdivisions) are higher than the fees charged to its low-income


 32 The National Formalization Program was associated with a 28% reduction in the likelihood of child work
 (since children were allowed by their parents to study more time once security o f tenure was assured). See
Field, op.cit.
 33 Although the granting of property titles has not generated major changes in the domestic dynamics
regarding responsibility for children and housekeeping, women perceive that the formal recognition of their
right to a property has forced their husbands to take them into account in property transactions. INFORMET,
 "Estudio sobre 10s efectos de la titulacidn en el desarrollo de la mujer" (Research study of the effects of
 titling on gender development), PDPUKOFOPRI, 2002.


                                                       84

clients. If the incremental revenues from higher volume of transactions exceed the incremental
costs, this would strengthen the financial position of SUNARP and enable it to provide further
improvements in services.

Table 16 shows an estimate of the revenuesto be generated under the Project. This calculation was
madebased on the average percentagesof the number of subsequent transactions and of mortgages,
inboth cases with respect to the stock number of registeredproperties, which were roughly 15.43%
and 2.23% respectively, in the period included between 1999 and 2004; and assuming an average
fee of US$10 per transaction. SUNARP i s reviewing the data to determine average fees by type of
transaction. This information will allow the estimate of the net financial impact of the Project on
SUNARP.

                                             Table 16
                             Incomeof SUNARP-RPUunder the Project




                                                 85

                                          Appendix 1

                       Variables includedinthe econometricmodel

1. Implicit price of the property without title nor construction

Theoretical price of the parcel, calculated usingas a reference the median of the implicit value
of a squared meter inthe property's district as reported by polled district residents.

2. Constructionmaterials index

Considers three different criteria: floor, walls and roof materials used in the construction of the
property. The index takes values between 3 and 25, where lower numbers indicate a worse
quality of the materials.

3. Number of rooms

4. Pavement quality

Values of this variable fluctuate between 1and 4, where proximity to the unit reflects a better
quality.

5. Holding of property title (dummy variable)

Dummy variable which activates (i.e., takes the value of 1) if the householder possesses a
property title. Inthe baseline model (Table 7), holding any property title -not only COFOPRI's-
i s included because, as explained in the Annex, further analyses concluded that for the
owner/occupant it does not make any difference to have one or more titles, or to have the title
given by COFOPRI.

6. Garage availability (dummy variable)

7. Socioeconomic level

Ittakes values between 0 and 4, where lower numbers indicate an inferior socioeconomic level.

8. Location (dummy variable)

One of them had to be left out of the estimate to avoid a problem of perfect co-linearity with the
model constant ("Huaraz" was excluded).

         a. Lima-North
         b. Lima-South
         c. Lima-East
         d. Arequipa
         e. Trujillo
         f. cusco
         g. Huaraz




                                               86

                                Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
             PERU:REALPROPERTYRIGHTSCONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

This Project is a follow-up of the Urban Property Rights Project (Loan No. SCL-43840 - UPRP).
Section E.6 of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the UPRP mentioned that the project did not
deal with environmental issues as described and identified by Banks policy, and explained that no
involuntary resettlement would take place. Section 4 of the ICR for the UPRP explained that in the
case of possible risk areas or archeological sites, COFOPRI worked with the agencies in charge
(National Culture Institute [INC] and National Civil Defense Institute [INDECI]) to ascertain
whether formalization could move forward. In these specific cases, the decision to clear the sites
for formalization was taken by INC or INDECI, as appropriate. Experience with safeguards policies
under the UPRP was therefore satisfactory; the Operational Manual proved adequateto prevent any
potential environmental or resettlement impact.

As in the case of the UPRP, the proposed Project will not deal with any environmental issue.

before December 31, 2001, in urban and peri-urban areas (Property Formalization Law - Law No.
Property targeted for formalization will only be small lots in State-owned land that was invaded

28391- Art. 1). The Project will not include the titling of environmentally significant lands (i.e.,
lands for productive use or in rural areas) that are governed by separate legislation and titled under
the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) -financed Special Program for Rural Land Titling
(PETT).

Following the UPRP precedent, the design of the decentralized formalization component will
incorporate appropriate guidelines to prevent formalization from happening in risk areas (as
mandated by Art. 21 and 22 of Supreme Decree No. 009-99-MTC and Art.18, Supreme Decree No.
013-99-MTC) or in or near archeological sites (as required by Art. 2.2.2 of Law No. 28391, Art. 1
of Supreme Decree No. 017-98-PCM and Art. 3 of Supreme Decree No. 046-98-PCM).
Furthermore, the law specifically excludes from formalization land that constitutes a natural habitat
(Law No. 28391, Art. 2.2) The Project Operational Manual will include sections to screenthe above
excluded areas out from titling under the project at the earliest stage of Project area surveying; no
major change i s anticipated to the provisions of that Manual for the UPRP, that were satisfactorily
applied.

However, the Project i s expected to generate favorable impacts from an environmental standpoint
under Components 3 and 4 because it will support activities that may induce positive behavioral
changes among urban dwellers that may have positive environmental impact while no negative
impacts are envisaged (for instance, provision of reliable information on risk areas and cultural
property issues).

The Project will not trigger OP 4.10 as COFOPRI'S legal framework (Law No. 28391) only allows
formalization of individual informal possessions on State-owned land pursuant to Article 4 of Law
No. 26845; demarcation and titling ancestral indigenous lands or natural habitats i s not envisaged
under this Project but under the GEF-financed Indigenous Management of Protected Areas in the
Peruvian Amazon Project. Furthermore, OP 4.10 does not apply because project beneficiaries have
lost collective attachment to their original distinct habitats and ancestral territories and moved into
urban and peri-urban areas. However, the Operational Manual will include provisions to ensure
informed consultation and participation of beneficiaries of indigenous descent in their own language
during the whole formalization process. Furthermore, formalization and titling of community and
indigenous lands is the mandateof PETTand falls outside the jurisdiction of COFOPRI.



                                                   87

The Project will not trigger OP/BP 4.12 or OPN 11.03 as no involuntary resettlement or impacts on
cultural property will result from Project activities. Involuntary resettlement will not occur because
the Project will only formalize State-ownedland as provided by Law No. 28391 (Art. 2.1); the same
law mandates that no privately held or disputed property can be formalized (Law No. 28391, Art.
10). The Project i s designed to ensure that squatters remain in the lands they already occupy and
mobilize that "dead capital" through market transactions (credit, sales, and mortgages). Therefore,
no physical displacement will be encouragedor supportedunderthe Project.

However, because State-owned lands in the Project area may contain culturally valuable resources
(in particular around the city of Cusco) in order to prevent the titling of lands supporting these
materials, the Operational Manual will provide that any historic or archeological site within the
Project area be surveyed, and their administration and conservation will be placed under INC
jurisdiction as provided by Law No. 28391. To ensure that Project activities do not result in
unintentional titling of areas of cultural value, as in the case of the WRP, information on any such
lands will be forwarded to INC, and titling will only be allowed following an official authorization
by INC.

Finally, due diligence procedures for addressingsocial issues inthe Project area will be included in
the revised Operational Manual.

Insummary, the Projectwill not trigger any safeguardpolicy. Potentialfavorable impact onurban
dwellers of indigenous ascent will be properly addressedby the Project's communications strategies
(see Annex 17) that will ensure dissemination of relevant information in indigenous languages.




                                                    88

                            Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision
                PERU: REALPROPERTYRIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT


                                                      Planned                      Actual
PAD review                                         June 15,2005               Seutember 22,2005
Initial PID to PIC                                 June 30,2005               September 22,2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                                June 30,2005               September 30,2005
Appraisal                                         October 15, 2005            November 15,2005
Negotiations                                      October 30, 2005            January 30,2006
BoardRVP approval                                 January 30,2005              March 16,2006
Planned date of effectiveness                     March 31,2006
Planned date of mid-term review                 December 15,2008
Planned closing date                            December 31.2011

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the Project: COFOPRIand SUNARP

Bank staff andconsultants who worked onthe Project included:

                Name                               Title                            Unit
           David F. Varela                    Task Manager                         LCCVE
      Jorge Luis Archimbaud                 Co-Task Manager                        LCCPE
         Kathrin Plangemann           Senior Public Sector Specialist              LCSPS
         MalcolmChildress          Senior Land Administration Specialist           ESSD
             Cora Shaw                 Senior Cofinancing Officer                   TFS
          Andrea Silverman           Senior Institutional Development               ESSD
                                                 Specialist
         EdgardoMosqueira                     Peer Reviewer                        LCSPS
        Frederic de Dine chin                 Peer Reviewer                        LCSER
             John Bruce                       Lead Counsel                         LEGEN
         Juan Carlos Alvarez                      Counsel                          LEGLA
      IsabellaMicali Drossos                  Senior Counsel                       LEGLA
          Mariana Montiel                     Senior Counsel                       LEGLA
          Fabiola Altimari                        Counsel                          LEGLA
           Alonso Zarzar                  Senior Social Scientist                  LCSEO
           Alvaro Larrea                  Procurement Specialist                   LCOSU
           Keisgner Alfaro            Senior Procurement Specialist                LCOPR
          Patricia McKenzie          Financial Management Specialist               LCOSU
           Xiomara Morel                  Disbursements Officer                    LOA3G
            Felipe Morris                  Financial Specialist                   Consultant
             Victor Endo                     Legal Specialist                     Consultant
     Guillermo Garcia Montlifar              Legal Specialist                     Consultant
          Maria ElenaRuiz                    Social Specialist                    Consultant
           Veena Mayani                      Social Specialist                    Consultant
         Javier Madalengoitia              Operations Specialist                  Consultant
          Juan Pablo Molina                Operations Suecialist                  Consultant
           Ricardo Mago                      Project Assistant                    Consultant

Bank funds expendedto date on Project preparation:
0    Bank resources:                                        US$300,000
0    Trust funds:                                           ---------------

0    Total:                                                 US$300,000



                                                   89

Estimated Approval and Supervision costs:
0   Remaining costs to approval:              US$ 50,000
0   Estimated annual supervision cost:        US$ 10,000




                                          90

                           Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile

            PERU: REALPROPERTYRIGHTSCONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

A. UPRP-relatedStudies

1. "Estudio de la oferta y demanda del crkdito informal" (Study on the Demand and Supply of
   Informal Credit), Grade, Lima, 1999.

2. "Estrategia para la Sostenibilidad de Largo Plazo del Sistema de Registro Predial Urbano"
   (Strategy for a long-term sustainability of the Urban Property Registry System), Arthur
   Andersen, Lima, November2000.

3.  "Encuesta de Linea de Base" (Baseline Survey), Instituto CuAnto, Lima, 2000.

4. "Encuesta de Linea de Base: Reporte Final" (Final report: Baseline survey), Apoyo
   Consultoria, Lima, November2000.

5.  "Diseiio del Programa de Difusidn y Estrategia de Comunicacidn de COFOPRI y RPU"
   (Design of the Information DisseminationProgramandCommunication Strategy for COFOPRI
   andRPU),Apoyo Comunicaciones,2000.

6. "Promocidn del Crkdito y las Inuersiones: Informe Final" (Final report: Credit and investment
   promotion), Group for Home & InfrastructureFinance, Lima, June 2001.

7. "Estudio Cualitativo del Mercado Inmobiliario Urbano Marginal" (Qualitative study of the
   peri-urbanreal estate market), Instituto Cuanto, Lima, August 2001

8. "Estudio de Cultura Registral" (Study on registry culture), DESCO, Lima, December2001.

9. "Estrategia de Largo Plazo de COFOPRT' (COFOPRI's Long-term Strategy), Apoyo
   Consultoria, Lima, March 2002.

10. "Estudio Ad Hoc sobre Efectos de la Titulacidn en el Desarrollo de la Mujer" (Ad-hoc study on
   the Effects of Titling on the Development of Women), Consorcio INFORMET-INPET, Lima,
   April 2002.

11. "Estudio sobre la Dindmica de 10s Asentamientos Humanos" (Study on the dynamics of Human
    Settlements),SASE, Lima, July 2002.

12. "Evaluacidn Integral para la Campaiia Educativa Comunicacional de Sewicios de la Cultura
   Registral Predial; Informe Integral" (Evaluation of the Registry Culture Campaign), ICOM,
   Lima, 2002.

13. "Entitled to work: Urban Property Rights and Labor Supply in Per&', Erica Fields, Industrial
   Relations Section, PrincetonUniversity, October 2002.

14. "Formalizacidn de la Propiedad Urbana en el Perk Cuatro Historias de Exito" (Urban
   Property Formalization in Peru: Four Success Stories), Ursula Paredes and others, Lima,
   COFOPRI, 2002.




                                               91

15. "Estudio para el ana`lisis de Cartera de Crkdito dirigido a1 segment0 de la poblacidn de menos
   ingresos de las zonas urbano marginales" (Study for the analisis of the loan portfolio aimed at
    low-income population of marginalurban areas), Alejandro Velasco, Lima, January 2003.

16. "Estimacidn del efecto de la titulacidn de Cofopri sobre la inversidn e infraestructura y el nivel
    de consolidacidn en a`reas urbano-marginales" (Assessment of the effects of COFOPRI titling
    process on investments and infrastructure, and the consolidation level in marginal urban areas),
    Roddy Rivas Llosa, Lima, April 2004.

17. "Peru-Urban Property Rights Project", Case study presented at Shanghai Conference,
    Fernando Cantuarias and Miguel Delgado, May 2004.

18. "Ana`lisis y determinacidn de la estructura de costos de COFOPRI" (Analysis and definition of
    the costs structure of COFOPRI), Universidaddel Pacifico, June 2004.

19. "La Formalizacidn en el Peru': Develando el Misterio" (Formalization in Peru: Unveiling the
    Mystery), FelipeMorris, Victor Endo and RafaelUgaz, Lima, June 2004.

20. "Segunda Encuesta de Hogares para la Medicidn del Impacto del Proyecto de Propiedad
    Urbana en el Bienestur de la Poblacidn       " (Final Report: Comparative Baseline Survey),
    Consorcio ESAN-IMASEN, Lima, October 2004.

21. "Estudio para el diseAo de un sistema de informacidn de precios del mercado inmobiliario
    urbano marginal e implementacidn del mismo" (Study for the design and implementation of an
    urban-marginal real estate price market information system), Apoyo Consultoria, Lima,
    September2003.

B.ProjectPreparationDocuments

22. BTOR's

23. Aide-Memoirs

24. PIP

25. Procurement Plan

26. Draft Operational Manual

27. "Politica de Estado sobre la Seguridad Juridica de 10s Derechos de Propiedad en Perk
    Resultados del Taller. Lima, Marzo 4 y 5 del 2004" (Public policy on legal security of property
    rights in Peni, summary of workshop results, Lima, March 4 and 5 2004), Foros TCcnicos Ltda,
    March 2004.

28. "Strategy Paper on Increasing the Security of Property Rights in the Republic of Peru",
    Terradigm, June 2004.

29. "Consolidacidn de 10s Derechos de Propiedad en Perk Resultados del Taller. Lima, Dic. 9 del
    2004" (Real Property Rights Consolidation, summary of workshop results, Lima, Dec. 9,2004),
    Foros TCcnicos Ltda, December 2004.




                                                 92

I  u l


                                   PERU
                           STATEMENTOFIFC's
                          HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                              As of 12131/2005
                           (InUS Dollars Millions)

                                     Held                      Disbursed

FY Approval Company        Loan    Equity Quasi Partic Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
       1999 Alicorp              0      0   20       0      0      0    20      0
       2005 Corp. Drokasa     6.96      0    0       0   6.96      0     0      0
       2004 EDYFICAR           2.3      0     1      0    2.3      0     0      0
       2002 FTSA              6.43      0   1.5      0   6.43      0   1.5      0
       2002 Gloria              25      0    0       0     19      0     0      0
       2002 ISA Peru,SA      15.72      0    0   5.98   15.72      0     0 5.98
       2003 ISA Peru, SA       0.2      0    0       0   0.12      0     0      0
       2001 InkaTerra            5      0    0       0      5      0     0      0
       2004 Interbank-Peru      40      0    0       0      0      0     0      0
       2002 Interseguro          0      4    0       0      0      4     0      0
       2003 Interseguro          0  0.59      0      0      0   0.59     0      0
       2005 Interseguro          0   0.6      0      0      0      0     0      0
       2000 Laredo               5      0     5      0      5      0     5      0
       2004 Laredo             0.3      0     0      0   0.08      0     0      0
       1998 LatinoLeasing     1.78      0     0      0   1.78      0     0      0
       2002 MIBANCO           0.67      0     0      0   0.67      0     0      0
       1999 Milkito            5.5      0   3.5      0    3.5      0    3.5     0
       2005 Miraflores          10      0     0      0     10      0      0     0
       2003 NorvialS.A.         18      0     0      0    5.9      0      0     0
       1998 Paramonga         11.5      0     0 9.71     11.5      0      0 9.71
       2001 PeruOEH            5.7      0   3.4      0     1.7     0    3.4     0
       1994 PeruPrvtzn Fund      0   3.81     0      0      0   3.81      0     0
       1993 Quellaveco           0   4.67     0      0      0   4.67      0     0
       1996 Quellaveco           0   3.98     0      0       0  3.98      0     0
       2000 Quellaveco           0   0.45     0      0       0  0.45      0     0
       2001 Quellaveco           0   0.57     0      0       0  0.54      0     0
       1999 RANSA                5      0     0      0       5     0      0     0
       2005 RANSA               10      0     0      0     10      0      0     0
       2001 TecnofilS.A.       3.6      2     0      0     3.6      2     0     0
       2005 USMP                 9      0     0      0     4.5     0      0      0
       1993 Yanacocha            0   0.33     0      0       0  0.33      0      0

       Total Portfolio:      187.66    21  34.4 15.69 118.76 20.37     33.4 15.69



         Approvals PendingCommitment
                            Loan   Equity Quasi Partic
       2004 UPC I1               1      0      0      0
       2005 DrokasaPCG           1      0      0      0
       2004 CMAC Arequipa      7.5      0      0      0

 Total PendingCommitment:      9.5      0      0      0


                                     95

                                           Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                                          PERU: PeruRuralElectrification
                                                               Latin  Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL

2004
Popuiation,mid-year(millions)                           275
GNIpercapita (Atlas method, US$)                       2,360   3,600    1580                Lifeexpectancy
GNI(Atlas method, US$ brllions)                         650     1,946   3,847

Average annual growth, 1998-04
Population ('A)                                           1.5     14       1.0
Laborforce (%)                                           2.7      0.9     0.7    GNI                                 Gross
                                                                                 per                                primary
M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1998-04)                         capita                         nrollment
Poverty ("Aof populationbelownafionalpoverty/me)
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulatron)                     74      77       49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                           70       71      70
Infant mortality (per 10001ivebilths)                    26       28       33
Childmalnutntion (770 f childrenunder5)                    7               11         Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedwater source (                       61      89       81
Literacy(%ofpopulation age is+                            88      89       90
Gross primaryenrollment (%ofschoo                        118      e 3     HQ
                                                         It3      e6       115
                                                         118              tu




                                              1984     lgg4
(%of GDP)                                                                        Growth of capital and GDP    ( O h )


Agriculture                                              9.2      D.1     m.l
industry                                          ....   312     30.1    29.9
 Manufacturing                                           v.7     15.4     16.0
Sewices                                           ...   596     598      600     -io
Householdfinalconsumption expenditure           657     72.3    70.8     68.7
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure      97       68      n 4      m 1
Imports of goods and services                   154      16.2    7.7      18.3            -GCF          -GDP




                                                               96

                                                                                                                        Peru

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                            1984   1994   2003    2004
Domestic prices                                                             1Inflation (x)                                  I
(% change)
Consumer prices                             110.3  23.7      2.3    3.7
Implicit GDP deflator                       109.9  26.2      2.3    5.7

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                    14.7    14.9    15.1
Current budgetbalance                                0.9     0.0     0.5
Overall surplusldeficit                             -3.2    -1.8   -1.2

TRADE
                                            1984   1994    2003    2004
(US$millions)                                                                Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                               4,598   9,091  12,617      15,000
 Copper                                             824   1,261   2,446            1
 Fishmeal                                           710     742     955
 Manufactures                                     1,199   2,620   3,476      10,oMI

Total imports (cif)                               5,596   8,255   9,824
 Food                                               523     560     722       5.000
 Fuel and energy                                    325   1,376   1,754                                                   "I
 Capital goods                                    1,698   1,984   2,365           n
                                                                                     98    99   00    01      02    03
Export price index (2000=100)                        102     108    130
import price index (2000=100)                        89      105    116                     Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (2000=100)                            114     103    112

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                            1984   1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                Current account balance to GDP (%)

Exportsof goods and sewices                 3,817 5,662   10,786 14,531
imports of goods and sewices                3,031 7,161   10,804 12,581
Resource balance                              786 -1,499     -18   1,950

Net income                                 -1,177 -1,804  -2,144  -3,421
Net current transfers                           0    748   1,227   1,461

Current accountbalance                       -391 -2,555   -935      -10

Financing items (net)                         641  5,614   1,412  2,362
Changes in net reserves                      -250 -3,059   -477   -2,352

Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          0  7,355  10,240 12,665
Conversion rate ( E C , local/US$)        3.47E-6    2.2     3.5     3.4

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                            1984   1994    2003    2004
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2004 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstandingand disbursed       12,157  26,510  29,822 29,991
  IBRD                                        508  1,554   2,789   2,834
  IDA                                           0      0       0       0                   G:2,525    A 2'834P.
                                                                                                              "  4""
                                                                                                                 I"-



Total debt service                          1,184  1,144   2,553   4,023
  iBRD                                         84    189     279     281
  IDA                                           0      0       0       0

Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                             100    226     182                F 10,966
  Official creditors                          409    160     -12     130
  Privatecreditors                            489    460   1,182     -42
  Foreigndirect investment(net inflows)       -89  3,289   1,377   1,802
  Portfolio equity (net inflows)                0    465       1     -74

World Bank program
  Commitments                                  40    334     373     294      A IBRD
                                                                                 -                              E -Bilateral
   Disbursements                              130    171     344     234      B -IDA      D Other multilateral
                                                                                           -                    F Private
                                                                                                                   -
   Principal repayments                        40     80     163     189      C IMF
                                                                                 -                              G -Short-term
  Net flows                                    90     91     180      45
   interest payments                           44    109     115      92
  Net transfers                                46    -18      65     -47


 DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                                   9/9/05




                                                         97

                                Annex 15: InstitutionalAssessment
             PERU: REAL PROPERTYRIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

1.      Background

An institutional diagnostic was carried out duringProject preparation to determine: (a)
current institutional framework; (b) proper roles of relevant institutions to assure a coherent
and effective execution o f the Project; (c) Project implementation arrangements; (d)
alternatives to build institutional capacity at different levels o f Government; and (e) long-
term requirements for the provision of highquality property-related services and regular
dialogue with a variety of stakeholders (Figure 1)
Figure1                     I
                            I              Stakeholders

                                  Municipal        Owners

                                  Governments                Occupants

                               National                      Financial
                               Agencies                      institutions


                                   Utility         Industrial/ Commercial
                                   Companies       Companies



2.      InstitutionalSetup: NationalAgenciesand MunicipalGovernments

COFOPRZ. COFOPRI is a decentralized public agency under MINJUS. It was established as the
agency responsible for the PNF, whose objectives were the social and economic integration of the
poor, the enhancement of savings and investments, and asset appreciation through titling. COFOPRI
developed the legal and institutional framework that facilitated the registration of valid property
rights and the incorporation of the properties of the marginal informal sectors into the formal
economy.34COFOPRI i s widely recognized by the design of a secure, agile and effective property
formalization system.

SUNARP. SUNARP is an autonomous agency under MINJUS. It i s responsible for all the public
registries (not only the real property registry) in Peru and will lead the real property registry
unification process. It has established effective cost-control systems and adopted an objective basis
for determining fee-for-service rates as well as decentralized services provision. SUNARP's Board
comprises representatives of PCM, MEF and COFOPRI. Advisory Boards are established in each
office with representatives of notaries and lawyers associations, private sector and civil society.
These Boards can make proposals for practical directives for day-to-day operation of registry
offices.

SUNARP has initiated a modernization program which will improve services by computerizing all
existing registry data and capturing all incoming data in digital format. This modernization program
will address a number of crucial issues for the development of an effective property rights system in


34Ley de Formalizacidn de la Propiedad Informal de Terrenos Ocupados por Posesiones Informales, Centros
Urbanos Informales y Urbanizaciones Populares (Law No. 28391). Supreme Decrees No. 05 - 2005 - JUS;
011-2005 -JUS; 015 - 2005 -JUS.


                                                  98

Peru, including the integration of cadastral data with registry records, incorporating a geo-
referenced data base, and increasing the capacity to validate and update registry data for rural and
urban parcels.

Full-fledged unification of the property registries requires the integration of data system, to allow
information flow between different legacy databases. Organization of such databases i s required in
order to achieve a standard that serves as a single database for SUNARP-RP, providing registry
information of equal quality to all users and with equal efficiency in any RP office. Information
maintenance will be automatic whenever a transaction i s made over a registered property, through
the coordinatiodintegrationof the competent agenciedauthorities' systems.

SUNARP-RP collects data on rural, urban and peri-urban properties, generated and used by
different stakeholders. Under the law, the registry system must be financially sustainable,
autonomous and capable of supporting its operation, maintenance and upgrading.
SUNARP-RP will provide tools for the utilization o f registrykadastre information by: (a)
the national and municipal governments inthe exercise o f their respectivejurisdictions (for
instance, for taxation purposes); (b) other public agencies like regional governments; public
sector enterprises (infrastructure, public utilities, social services); and (c) private
institutionslike owners and tenants, heirs, grantees (parties to private transactions),
investors (including constructors and financial institutions), and intermediaries (notaries,35
lawyers, realtors) that pay for information or services provided. Therefore, SUNARP-RP
policies shouldresult from consensus-building between users and generators o f this
information.

           Chart No.1 Nationaland LocalAgencies involved inProperty Rights




         SUNARP         COFOPRI




                           Municipalities



MEF SIAF Unit. The SIAF (SistemaIntegrado de Administracidn Financiera) Unit under MEF is
responsible for providing technical assistance to Municipalities for the development of a cadastral
module for Local Governments (SIAF-GL). CAF has granted financial assistance for a pilot that
will test the cadastremodule of SIAF; Project activities will be coordinated with MEF-SIAFUnit to



35The notaries Commission operates directly under the Minister of Justice.


                                                   99

ensure that the proposed cadastre-relatedactivities with municipalities are fully compatible with the
SIAF-GL.

E N . SBN is responsible for issues related to State-owned land and has advanced formalization
campaigns. Currently, SBN has undertaken a program to determine which land belongs to various
government agencies.

Municipalities. The role and responsibilities of municipal governments have been recently modified
by a Municipalities Organic Law that significantly increases their powers and provides them with
enhanced ability to collect and spend revenues at the local level. Municipalities will also assume a
key role in determining land use towards the development of a coherent urban planningsystem. The
Project is expected to constitute a vehicle to support the Peruvian decentralization process and to
strengthen the municipalities through the formalization and cadastre subcomponents, by supplying
integrated cadastral data that will be a key tool not only in tax collection but also in the preparation
of land-use zoning and planning method~logies.~~

Znstituto Catastral de Lima (ICIL). This agency is responsible for the development and maintenance
of the Lima City's Cadastre. The ICIL has advanced 10% of the Lima Cercado Cadastre and has
sufficient funding to complete this task. It has also prepared a plan to secure international funding
for the Lima Province Cadastre based on a trust-fund scheme to be agreed with the District
Municipalities. In the Province of Lima there are 43 districts and only 5 have their own cadastres
built on different technical specifications.

PETT. PETT i s under MAG and issues titles in rural areas. PEP'Scomplementary mandates are to
conduct cadastral surveys, collect and organize information from farmers and register their
properties. PETT has developed inter-institutional arrangements with other institutions involved in
property rights issues (SUNAW, COFOPRI, and MEF).

E N . All topographic mapping in Peru has to be done in accordance with IGN standards. IGN
regularly validates mapping work done by private sector companies. It also provides practical
training on geography and mapping.

ZNC. The administration and conservation of any historic or archeological site is under the
jurisdiction of the National Culture Institute (INC). INC will issue an official finding, after which
titling will be allowed, to ensure that Project activities do not result in unintentional titling of areas
of high cultural value.

3.       Overall DecentralizationProcess: Devolution of roles and responsibilities from
NationalAgencies to Municipal Governments.

Principles. GoP examined the decentralization experiences of other countries and reflected these
lessons in its own program to avoid the risks of disruption of services, fragmentation of public
interventions, uneven distribution of public resources, disparities in access to public services and
deepening of regionaleconomic inequalities.

Buildingon that experience, GoP adopted a program based on three principles: (i)        decentralization
should be fiscally neutral, meaning that the decentralization process should not create an additional
fiscal burden, thanks to a pari passu reduction in national government expenditures as


36Ley que crea el SistemaNacional Integrado de Catastroy su vinculacio'ncon el Registro de Predios (Law
No.28294)


                                                  100

responsibilities and resources are transferred to sub-national entities; (ii)
                                                                           decentralization should be
gradual, with transfers of resources and responsibilities taking place by phases and restricted to
those entities that have demonstrated effective capabilities; and (iii)decentralization should
complement economic competitiveness efforts by enabling local and regional governments to
facilitate and undertake growth-enhancing investments, target potential growth sectors and mobilize
private sector resources 37.

General Legal and Regulatory Framework. GoP has achieved significant progress since 2001 in
passing legislation that establishes the principles for decentralization and the institutional
framework of regional and municipal governments. This framework currently includes the
following legal instruments: (a) a Constitutional Amendment and a Decentralization Framework
Law3*which sets out the guiding principlesof the decentralization process for: (i) the assignment of
services and competencies (shared, exclusive and delegated) to different levels of government; (ii)
the development of fiscal rules and transfer mechanisms; and (iii)the sequencing of
decentralization, starting with anti-poverty programs, to be followed by other sectoral transfers; (b)
Organic Laws for Regional Governments and Municipalities which broadly define the roles and
responsibilities of sub-national government^;^' (c) Law of Territorial Demarcation; (d) Law on
Participatory Budgeting, supplemented by regulations which provide a framework for civil society
participation in the budgetary decision-making process at the local and regional levels, including a
framework for consultation in the design of new projects; (e) Fiscal Decentralization Law which
specifies mechanisms to be used for transfers to regions and identifies the tax-sharing and tax
administration arrangements between the central government and the regions at a later stage of the
decentralization process (when the current regions are merged in line with the Macro-region
Incentives Law). It also reinforces the constraints on the sub-national governments to engage in
borrowing and expanding expenditures; (f) Law on Promotion of Decentralized Investment which
establishes a framework for fostering private investment to the regions; (g) Accreditation System
Law for Regional and Local Governments which provides a system for the certification of
minimumcapacity standards for sub-national governments to qualify for the transfer of functions
and the corresponding resources; (h) Macro-regions Incentives Law designed to create conditions,
incentives and instruments for the voluntary merger of regional governments (via referendum) in
order to obtain an optimum number of economically viable regions; and (i)        Framework Law for
PublicEmployment which sets the overall framework for civil service reforms and payroll census.
The implementation of the institutional framework for decentralization has also substantially
advanced, with the creation of the National Decentralization Council that coordinates the overall
process and the setting-up of regional and local government institutions, including consultative
bodies with civil society representation.

 1.1     Challenges. GoP still has significant challenges ahead in relationto establishing the rules
that will govern the social sectors and the anti-poverty programs in a decentralized context. Starting
inmid-2002, legislation was passedgiving regionaland municipal governments significant
responsibilities and funding for social programs; regional authorities were elected for the first time.
A group of social programs were transferred to municipal andregional governments in2003, and
more programs and funds were transferred in2004.




37 Program Document for a proposed Second Programmatic Decentralization and Competitiveness Structural
Adjustment Loan, November 2,2004,Report No. 30249-PE, pg.10
38 Ley de Bases de la Decentralizacidn (Law No. 27783)
39 Le; Organica de GobiernosRegionales(Law No. 27867) and Ley Orgdnica de Municipalidades (Law No.
27972)


                                                  101

1.2     The decentralization agenda for the next two years seeks to ensurefiscal and institutional
sustainability, and enhance the accountability and delivery capacity of sub-national governments.
Peru is currently advancing inthe areas of common accounting, budgeting, monitoring and
evaluation and fiscal reporting standardsfor all levels of government. The challenge at this stage i s
to harmonize incentives for fiscal discipline and respond to demandsfor additional resources at sub-
national levels.


4.      Real Property Rights and Decentralization.

a.      Inter-institutional coordinationmechanisms

Supreme Decree No020-2002-AG created a Commission to prepare a draft law organizing a
National Integrated Cadastral System linkedto RP. The Commission was headedby SUNARP and
comprised representatives of the fourteen agencies that manage cadastres in Peru, at the national
and sub-national level (including the ones mentioned in Section 1above). After a long consensus-
building exercise, the Commission approved a draft Law that: (a) declared of national interest the
creation of the National System and regulates the participation of the fourteen agencies in such
System; (b) defines the System as a set of processes aimed at integratingand standardizing cadastral
information, and linking the cadastre with RP; (c) identifies as one of the System's main objectives
the establishment of mandatory standards for the production, processing, storage, updating and
retrieval of cadastral data; (d) establishes an autonomous Technical Secretariat within SUNARP to
organize, regulate, coordinate and direct the production of cadastral information, as well as to
manage the infrastructure in which the information produced by the different agencies will be
processed and aggregated. This bill became Law No. 28294 in June 2004. Figure 2 describes the
systemdevelopment envisaged inthe law.

                           Figure 2                                    Figure 3   _         _         ~
           Developmentof the National CadastreSystem    NationalCadastreSystemManagementModel

                                        Public          Understanding            Designing
                                        Policy          Requirements             Responses
                                                        /I
                          Information



                                                          Immediate&               Technical
                                                          FutureIssues




This law governs the integration and merger of the standards, nomenclature and technical processes
of different cadastre-generating entities at the national, regional and municipal levels of
Government. The main bodies of the System are: (i)         the National Cadastre Board; and (ii)    the
Technical Secretariat, located in SUNARP.            The System comprises: (A) SUNARP, whose
Superintendent represents the National Cadastre Board; (B) Regional Governments, through a
designated representative; (C) Provincial and District Municipalities, represented by the President
of the Municipalities Association; (D) the Metropolitan Municipality of Lima, represented by the
Executive Director of ICL; (E) IGN, represented by its Executive Director; and (F) INACC also
represented by its Executive Director. The heads of COFOPRI and PETT are also members of the
Board.

The most important functions of the Board are: (i)        to determine the System's policies; (ii)to
approve mandatory directives for property cadastre activities; (iii)to approve agreements or


                                                    102

contracts to be entered into with national and foreign entities for the collection, update and
maintenance of cadastral information; (iv) to establish standards and technical norms; and (v) to
establish the IT system that will integrate the cadastral information generated by the system
members. The entities in charge of generating the Single Cadastre Code are the District
Municipalities, which can commission cadastral mapping to other public entities like COFOPRI.
Figure 3 shows how the systemis expectedto operate.

b.      Institutionalchallenges identified duringProject preparation

Main institutional issues identified during Project preparation were: (a) overall weakness; (b)
complexity of the institutional set-up; and (c) lack of long-term vision (5 to 10 years). To address
these issues it was proposed early during Project identification: (a) to utilize the Project preparation
as a tool to develop a long-term vision as part of a previously defined State policy; (b) to carry out
strategic planning seminars; and (c) to establish inter-institutional coordination mechanisms. The
Bank was acceptedby the institutions involved as a facilitator of the process.




                                                 103

                   Figure 4                                                                 Figure 5


      Does your Municipality have an office                                  Isthereany propertyformalization project?
        responsible for formalization?                                          (%provincialmunicipalities)
Yo of Municipalities that carried out formalizations)




                                                                             Source: Municipalities survey, COFOPRl2005




        Source:Municipalities survey, COFOPRl2005




                                                          Figure 6


                                How do you planto carry out the formalization project?
                                        (Yoof municipalitieswith formalization project)


                                                                                                                       1
                       With municipality personnel                                                         42.11       '
                       Will hire a specialized institution
                       COFOPRI                                                                              5;:::

                       Total                                                                                      100




                                                          Figure 7

                                                 Main barriersfor effectiveformalization
                                                     (% of provincial municipalities)



                           Qualified personnel
                           Budget
                           Lack of equipment
                           ComplexAreas
                           Legalproblems
                           Technical assistance
                           Beneficiaries' support
                           Do not know-did not respond                                                            '
                           Privateareas invasion

                           Total                                                      I
                                            Source:Municipalitiessurvey, COFOPRI2005                     loo         I
                                                                 104

                                               Figure8


      Municipalities that currently carry out
           formalization procedures

             (%of provincialmunicipalities)                Didyou receivetechnical assistancefrom any institutionto
                                                                  to carry out formalization procedures?




  No

 44%




                                                            Source: Municipalitiessurvey, COFOPRI2005


Source:Municipalitiessurvey, COFOPRI2005




                                               Figure9

                   What is your opinion on the technical assistanceprovided?
                 (% of provincialmunicipalitiesthat received technical assistance)


                       excellent                                            17.65
                       good                                                 58.82
                       regular                                              17.65
                       bad                                                    5.88

                       Total                                                   100




                                               Figure10




                                                   District             Provincial                   Total

                  Has cadastre                             34.1                           58.0            43.2
                  Does not have cadastre                   65.9                           42.0            56.8

                  Total                                    1oo.c                        100.0            100.0




                                                 105

                                                    Figure 11

                                          Type of cadastre the municipality
                                                      developed
                                     f% of municbalities that have cadastre)
                     I                                                 I            YO
                     I I
                       IProperty cadastre                                                 31.58
                        Municipalcadastre

                       ITotal                                          I                      1001
                                    Source: Municipalitiessurvey, COFOPRI 2005


                                                    Figure 12


    Hasthe cadastre been updated since
         it first was implemented?                               How was the municipal cadastre carried out?

     (%of municipalitiesthat have a cadastre)                   (YOof municipalitiesthat have a municipalcadastre)


                                                                                                                YO
                                                    With municipalitypersonnel                                     45.6
                                                    Hireda specializedinstitution                                  22.0
                                           Updated  Carriedout and delivered by another institution                21.1
                                             44%    By agreement                                                   10.5
Did not
update
 56%                                                Total                                                          100




                                                    Figure 13

Is there a special office in the Municipality for         Cadastreimplementationprogressas a percentage
         carrying out cadastres?                                          of municipalarea
     (%of municipalitiesthat have cadastre)                        (municipalitiesthat have cadastre)
                                                      1% of advance in cadastreimplementation'              1%
                                                       Do not knowlDid not respond                                  12.5
                                                       From 5 to 20                                                 10.7
      No                                               From 21 to 40                                               21.4
     44%                                               From 41 to 60                                                17.9
                                          Yes          From 61 to 80                                                17.9
                                        56%            From 81 to 99                                                 7.1
                                                       100                                                          12.5


                                                      * Only urbancadastre
 Source: Municipalities survey, COFOPRl2005                                  Source: Municipalitiessurvey, COFOPRl2005




                                                          106

                                                    Figure14


Distribution of Personnel in charge of cadastre procedures

             Office                   Do not know             Personnelin charge of cadastreimplementation
                                                                                 ("/. of personnel)


                                                                                                yes           no
                                                        Managers                                     54.8          45.2
                                                        Supervisors/ coordinators                    55.0          45.0
                                                        Fieldpersonnel                               61.9          38.1
                                                        Officepersonnel                              58.3          41.7
                                                        Do not know- Did not respond                  0.0         100.0

                                                       ITotai                            I           54.5 I        45.5I
              18%                                                           Source: Municipalitiessurvey, COFOPRlZOO5

      Source: Municipalitiessurvey, COFOPRl2005




                                                          Figure15


Receivedsome technicalassistancefor cadastre                      Equipmentfor carryingout cadastreprocedures
                   implementation                                                 (% of municipalities)
   ("/.municipalitiesthat have cadastre)                       I         Equipment                 1 YOof Municipalities1
                                                                Pentium II                                       0.8
    Did not                                                     Pentium Ill                                      11.4
    receive                                   Received          Pentium IV                                      20.5
    advice                                      advice
         49%                                    51yo            Printer                                          0.8
                                                                GPS                                              0.8
                                                                Do not know                                      9.1
                                                                Does not have I Did not                          56.8
                                                                respond
                                                                Total                                          100.0     '
Source: Municipalitiessurvey, COFOPRl2005



                                                     Figure16



                                                                     What do you think of the advice given?
                                               Yo                  (% of municipalitiesthat received advice)
  IndividualConsultancy                               31.O
  COFOPRI
   lnstitutode Catastro de Lima -ICL                             Excellent                             13.79
  Municipality                                                                                                        59%
   lnstitutoNacionalde Desarrollo- INADUR                         aT-                           -   --34T48
                                                                                                       44.83

  Universities                                        iilI
  SUNARP
   Ministry of Housing                                       ;
                                                      10.3
                                                       6.9
                                                       6.9
                                                       3.4       Total
   NGOs                                                3.4               Source: Municipalitiessurvey, COFOPRl2005
   Region                                              3.4

Duringthe workshops and seminars conducted as part of Projectpreparationseveral
principles were identified as critical to pursuethe institutional reforms required for
effective property rights recognition and protection: (a) determination of decision-making
levels; (b) reassignment of field functions to decentralized levels; (c) utilization of strengths
(COFOPRURPU's experience in area-based formalization and institutional change
management; SUNARP's experience in information systems and technological
infrastructure); (d) Project support to improve performance (through technical assistance,
training, equipment, etc.); and (e) development of new skills (new technology, new
products and new services) also with Project support. Institutional reforms should be
carried out under ajoint technical/political leadership that generates and balances a
common vision. COFOPRI's proposed strategy on change management i s summarized in
figures 17 and 18.


                    Figure 17                                        Figure 18

                                                    Institutional ChangeManagement Strategy


                                                          AddressingtheReal Needs

                                                          Adaptabilityof theProposeC,
                                                          Solutions

                                                          FindingChampions

                                                          CapacityDevelopment

                                                          Achievingshort termbenefitsbut
                                                           havinga longtermvision




Given the relevance of property information, specific principles on information management and
generation were selected: (a) information is generatedto be used: use determines the value of the
information; (b) information maintenance(andtherefore information value) should optimize its use;
(c) as head of the CadastreBoard, SUNARP should be the agency responsibleof generating a long-
term State on the allocation of resources for the administration of reliable information services.
SUNAFW's proposedprinciplesfor the developmentof technological and spatial data infrastructure
are summarizedin Figures 19 and 20.

                    Figure 19                                        Figure 20




                                               108

                                                                 Spatial Dafa lnfrastroctore
          Technological Infrastructure                     I                Sources

           Invisible and Easy to Use                                        Datasets &


           Reliable                                          Institutional  Policies & Information
           Always Accessible, Almost Everywhere             Arrangements    Standards  Technologies


           Multipurpose                                                     Networks &
                                                                             Access
                                                                           Mechanisms
           Foundation for Other Activities                                      I
           Flexible and Dynamic                                  Data     -Users-Requ/rements.
 I                                                    I 1


For the purposes of inter-sectoral coordination in cadastre matters, the National Cadastre
System Board will operate as a specialized body that counts with the authority to generate
the relevant regulatory framework. This Board will: (i)       include representatives of the users;
(ii)responsivetopublicandprivatesectorinterests;(iii) abletomakedecisionsover
    be                                                                be
public interests; (iv) have authority delegated from upper levels of Government in
accordance with the applicable legal framework; and (v) be able to follow up in order to
rectify and evaluate results.

A key element for sustainability will be the financing structure. SUNARP-RP will generate
revenues but the establishment and maintenance of the national cadastre system is expensive.
Registry-cadastre unification will help to: (i)  improve and maintain the integrity of the information;
and (ii)remain financially autonomous (no contributions from MEF are expected). SUNARP-RP
could market access to information on traditional areas, converting the registry into a "data
warehouse" for analytic purposes such as marketing strategies formulation, real estate investment
plans, public services to be developed, etc. SUNARP's proposal on how to utilize cadastre
information for revenue generation is summarized inFigure21.
                                                Figure 21



                                               revenuegeneration




                                                   Documents


6.      Project Approach to Institutional Reform

a.      Strategic Choices. Strategic choices were limited to issues of Project scope and concept: (a)
as opposed to the UPRP, this Project will develop an overall property rights policy framework (not
constrained to urban areas, it will look into the right long-term policies for issues like unsatisfied



                                                   109

land and housing demands, or stringent and inadequateurban development regulations) and to that
end, it will require close coordination with PETT, central and local government agencies; (b) the
Project will support SUNARP-RP information and technological infrastructure at the national level
(not only for recently formalized areas but also in traditional areas); (c) to maintain the capacity of
COFOPRI and SUNARP, and based on the experience accumulated under the UPRP, a mixture of
output-based short-term contracts (for supply of mapping, computer programming, and process
audits, for instance) and regular long-term contracting (for other functions) will be used; (d) to
maintain a cost-effective formalization process, the Project decentralized formalization component
will only be implementedin areas chosen in accordance with eligibility criteria comprising density
of informal settlements, proximity to major economic activity centers and land value.

b.       Comprehensive framework. The Project will strengthen the ability o f national and
local Government agencies to respond effectively to services demand, and develop a long-
term vision o f property rights to better protect public and private property. Bank
involvement will help to develop an integrated framework that includes real estate markets
development and social development considerations (gender, poverty). A comprehensive
framework has been preferred to the targeted approach of the UPRP in order to achieve
greater focus through the policy-making component, although titling will remain limited to
urban and peri-urban areas. The focus on local governments represents a major strategic
departure from the highly centralized approach of the original design o f the UPRP and
reflects the lessons learned during its implementation interms o f involvement of local
authorities; it i s also fully consistent with the overall decentralization process of the
Peruvian State financed by other Bank operations.

C.       Policy Reforms:        The Project will provide the operational framework to coordinate
initiatives for the formulation and implementation of property rights policies. Key principles will
orient the required reforms: (a) security of property rights i s a public service to be provided by the
State; (b) land i s a basic asset for the poor and should be protected through an integrated approach
that takes into account formal and informal rules, and provides equal protection to the poor; (c)
strengthened institutional capacity at the national and municipal level i s essential to guarantee
quality and timely property rights protection; and (d) stakeholder consultation and participation
should be a continuous process, for transparency and accountability purposes.

d.       Institutional strengthening and inter-institutional coordination. The involvement of various
institutions i s critical to consolidate an effective property rightsframework inPeru. The Project will
 specifically support reform initiatives that will enable inter-institutional coordination to develop a
more effective property rights system (including accessible registry offices and municipal real
property cadastres under Components 2 and 3), by deconcentrating authority, complementing
responsibilities, and empowering community organizations. The Project will support such
institutional strengthening activities at national and local level for the reformed institutions to
 assume new roles and responsibilities.

 e.      Close linkages between national and local government authorities.          Strengthening local
 offices management, outreach to communities, appropriate financing, and inter-institutional
 coordinationare among the main issues facing COFOPRI and SUNARP over the next several years.
 COFOPRI was created as a specific purpose temporary agency, whereas the activities of SUNARP
 will continue indefinitely in the future. However, COFOPRI has gained substantial experience
 about formalization and the generation of cadastres nationwide and could play a major role in the
 development of property rights policies, in collaboration with local governments and the private
 sector.


                                                     110

The institutional strengthening subcomponent (C.2) will deal with the involvement of a number of
municipalities that requires: (a) multi-level partnerships, in which State institutions at the national
and local level work collaboratively to accomplish commonly agreed objectives, including
decentralization of formalization and cadastres; (b) partnerships with local organizations (CSOs and
the private sector) to ensure participation and consultation, as well as cadastre maintenance; and (c)
inter-institutional coordination at the national level to assure broad policy dialogue on a permanent
and sustainable basis. This approach will entail open communication, shared responsibilities, and
effective coordination among the leadership and staff of the institutions involved and will allow
them to play their respective roles in a complementary manner.
f.       Local revenue generation. For municipalities, DCDPL I1will support strengthening local
cadastres for purposes of property taxation. Municipalities have a potentially dynamic yet largely
under-utilized tax bases and need adequate incentives to mobilize their tax revenues.                  The
Government's priority agenda with respect to municipal taxation i s to provide country-wide support
for updating and facilitating access to the real property cadastre. To strengthen the nationwide
cadastre system "Fondos de Apoyo a1 Plan Catastral Distrital" will be introduced in every
provincial municipality between 2005-2006 financed by a share of the property tax collected in the
districts.


The National Integrated Cadastre System will allow the local cadastres to be connected
progressively with the property registry under SUNARP. Further steps will be required to increase
property taxes collection and expand the cadastre systems. A handful of innovative examples of
how municipalities can increase their own revenues already exist, including independent tax
collecting agencies, tax incentives and outsourcing of the establishment, operation and maintenance
of cadastre systems. The introduction of the SIAF-GLcadastre module and the development of the
SIAF collection module are the first steps in that direction. The Executive -based on authority
granted by Congress- has also approved modifications to the legal framework for local government
taxation to facilitate improved tax collection and administration of sub-national entities?' One of
the triggers under DCDPL Ifor DCDPL I1preparation was the full-fledged development of the
SIAF-GL collection module and the set up of the SIAF-GL cadastre module in at least 40% of
Provincial Municipalities.41

g.       Contractual Accreditation.-The      Project will also reflect the best practice in terms of
effective transfer of responsibilities to local levels of government, a major challenge in designing
and implementing an effective decentralization process. In designing the transfer system, the
principles of subsidiarity, economies of scale and institutional capacity will be balanced.
International experience indicates that a strategy i s needed to mitigate key risks such as: (i)
asymmetries between assigned responsibilities, revenues and expenditures that could lead to
potential duplication, inefficiencies and deficits; (ii) deterioration of service delivery; (iii)  limited
accountability due to a mismatch between transferred responsibilities and resources; and (iv)
politicization of the transfer process in which political interests prevail over technical and fiscal
criteria thereby jeopardizing the sustainability of the decentralization process.
Intheareaofproperty rights, theMunicipalOrganic LawandtheFormalizationLawdo notprovide
specific rules for the transfer of responsibilities and resources. However, under the Participation
Agreements to be entered into under the Project, Municipalities will have to qualify for the


40 Legislative Decree No. 952 specifically provides mechanisms to improve the efficiency of municipal tax
administration and a special system to promote compliance of small taxpayers.
41One indicator of performance under DCDPL I1will be a 5% increase in tax collection by provincial
municipalities with SIAF-GLcadastre module.


                                                    111

technical assistance of COFOPRI after having met certain criteria that validate the availability of
minimal management and administrative capacity. This contractual accreditation system will be
fully consistent with the GoP's commitment to a gradual decentralization process-the     first pillar of
GoP's decentralization program. This gradual approach also mitigates potential risks related to
sustainability.


7.       Criteria for selection of components

a.       Component 1 - Comprehensive Real Property Rights Policies. Early during Project
identification it was realized that a policy agenda should be agreed so as to bring some order to the
multiple institutional agendas in the area of property rights. As a result, the Land Tenure Center of
the University of New Brunswick was hired to carry out a series of in-depthinterviews and inter-
institutional meetings/workshops to prepare a Policy Paper that summarized an agenda that
reflected an agreed common minimal denominator to start working on the Project and that
suggestedfurther policy areas to be worked out duringpreparatiodimplementation.

The policy paper was subsequently endorsedby MEF, MINJUS, COFOPRI and SUNARP during a
March 2004 workshop. The reforms the Project will support are expected to go well beyondregistry
unification and national cadastre system to involve a more comprehensive vision of property
rightdurban land issues. This component will strengthen the institutional roles of COFOPRI and
SUNARP, but will also require the leadership of MINJUS and MEF in order to provide a broader
focus than the UPRP.

The policy-making agendabroadly agreedby GoP agencies i s recorded inthe policy paper prepared
by the University of New Brunswick (See Appendix). However, some extra items will be addressed
under Component 1: (a) regulatory framework for simplified buildingformalization; (b) regulations
for the Cadastre Law, including rules on data sharing with public and private entities; (c) notaries
services (including an analysis of users' behavior and willingness to pay); and (d) overall land
administration policies in urban areas to prevent new invasions by making land available. The
participatiodconsultation side of this component will include dialogue with the notaries and
lawyers to look for affordable alternatives to the costly public deed (the need to increasethe number
of Notaries will also be considered).

Project description (see Annex 4) details the policy issues to be tackled and will require strong
GoP's commitment to move ahead, a commitment that may be limited by the frequent changes in
the Peruvian Cabinet and the PresidentiaIKongressional elections of CY06 but that was considered
sufficient for Project launch at the time of appraisal. One option considered during identification
was to limit the Project to policy implementation but since that time the chances that the required
diagnostic studies, consensus-building and legalhegulatory proposals were available before Board
presentation were small; incorporation as a Component in Project design was the preferred option
also to match the political cycle. Component 1 retained flexibility to keep in motion the reform
process and gather the support of "outsiders". Full-fledged implementation of the policies will only
start once a new National Government i s elected (middle of 2006).

b.       Component 2 - Decentralized Formalization and Cadastre Services. The National
Formalization Strategy referred to in Component 2 will specifically link formalization with the
expected economic and social benefits, and redesign COFOPRI to support their achievement, as
well as continuously adapting the formalization processes to face the challenges of new
areaskommunities. The Project will move beyond titling and registration into facilitating realization




                                                  112

of the estimated benefits and will help COFOPRI to transform itself into a "broker" among the
major outside stakeholders (municipalities, micro-financeinstitutions, communities).

The Project endorsed the proposal that formalization work conducted in local jurisdictions be co-
financed by the interested Provincial and District Municipalities. The specific forms of such co-
financing will be determined in the Participation Agreements to be signed by the municipalities.
However, it i s not expected that the contributions in cash by the poorest municipalities will be
significant; as an alternative, in-kind contribution in terms of staff and physical facilities will be
considered.

Regarding direct beneficiaries, the Project will retain the no-charge principle for the issuance and
registration of the first title so as not to impose any barrier to get into the registry system to people
that have always been out of that system and represent a potential for increased registry services
demand.

For the cadastre of the non-formalized areas, the National Cadastre SystemLaw provided a gradual
process. New transactions should be recorded in the registry with a geo-referenced parcel map
certified by the municipal authorities (Cddigo Unico Cutustrul). Therefore, it i s expected that the
District Municipalities will recover their contribution to the cadastre work conducted with the
assistance of COFOPRI through the fees they will charge to the parties to subsequent transactions
that need registration for them to obtain the required parcel maps. The level of the fees should also
be specified in the Participation Agreements and will establish a differential between
formalizednon-formalized users in order not to generate extra incentives to revert into informality,
while keepingoverall transaction costs low.

The registry system in Peru can only be "deconcentrated" in terms of more local presence through
local offices. Only the generation of geo-referenced parcel index will be decentralized since the
Municipalities Organic Law and the National Cadastre System Law entrusts that responsibility to
District Municipalities.

C.       Component 3 - Registry Services Provision. Duringpreparation of Component 3 the issue
of SUNARPoffices' accessibility for recently formalized property-holders and the fee structure of
SUNARP was carefully looked at. Although SUNARP has improved significantly the quality of
services (as recorded intheir monthly reports), it has not set up modern performance standards (they
only look at statistics on transactions processedbut not at their cost or duration) andthe Project will
help them to develop such standards.For the cadastre subcomponent, consultants will determine the
most appropriate technology for the densification of the geodesic network, and explore alternative
technologies to resolve super-positions or gaps. Subsequent transactions will be subject to a
preferential fee; the current simplifiedfee structure will be revised to find a balance between cost-
recovery and access-for-all principles and the Project will study how to develop a more segmented
tariff on the basis of financial projections for the life of the Project and beyond.

d.       Component 4 - Formalization Benefits Dissemination. Component 4 will re-direct
COFOPRI's role from titling to an "advocacy-technical assistance institution" that helps credit
providers, formalized settlers and municipalities to find practical solutions for common problems.
Component 4 was structuredspecifically to that end.




                                                    113

                                              Appendix

                                           Strategy Paper

Diagnostic

Informal real property in Peru has largely been the result of the lack of effective institutional
arrangements to provide cost and time efficient access to land and housing for a growing
population, especially in urban areas. Informal property, which lies outside the formal law and
markets, has been recognized as a `dormant' asset in Peruvian society and there have been several
major, and still ongoing, efforts to tap this asset. These include UPRP, PETT and other projects
funded by NGOs to formalize defacto human settlements and to streamline the official registration
of property rights.

However, as identified at the stakeholder meeting in March 2004 in Lima, sponsored by MEF and
the Bank, there are still significant issues related to property rights in Peru. These include, but are
not limited to: (a) the compartmentalization of land information management within numerous
agencies and at various levels of government which affects the quality and availability of
information; (b) lack of continuity in policies affecting property and of completion of registry
reforms; (c) the remaining informal property in rural and urban areas, which may not be easily
captured in large-scale systematic campaigns; (d) lack of a culture of registration and registration
incentives which endangers even registered land because subsequent transactions are not being
recorded; (e) lack of capacity at the local level to deal with formalization under the new
decentralization policy; (f)the complexity of laws and regulations affecting property and property
transactions; (g) overlapping and unclear mandates within government; and (h) lack of appropriate
landuseregulations andenforcement of existing regulations.

A new strategy was requiredto provide improved security of tenure. The Strategy Paper traced the
history of the property reforms and analyzed the problems inthe context of four key areas related to
security of property: (i)  strategic economic development; (ii)    policies, rules, and mandates; (iii)
completion of the registry reforms; and (iv) completion of the formalization process.The Paper then
outlined issues that should be considered in developing a strategy based on international experience.

Proposed Strategy

International experience in property reforms have shown that there are several key elements in
achieving successfulprograms. These include:

(a) Lessons Learned From Previous Initiatives: Peru has had extensive experience in property
formalization and reforms of the registries of property rights. It i s critical that this experience be
captured in any new initiatives. The UPRP for example demonstrated the importance of information
campaigns, of streamlined formalization processes, and parcel based information management in
the registries. It also demonstrated the benefits of addressing property rights of women and
providing support to small businesses in obtaining credit. These experiences should be included in
any new strategy.

(b) Strong Political Support at All Levels of Government: An overwhelming factor in making
successfulreforms i s strong political support. This involves communicating a clear strategy at every
level of government, gaining political trust by delivering clear short and long-term benefits, and
actively seeking support at the highest levels. Peru needs to gain renewed support at all levels of
government if a successful strategy i s to unfold.


                                                   114

(c) CitizenAwarenessand Participation:Peru has been a leader internationally in demonstrating
how important information campaigns and citizen engagement are to moving property reforms
forward effectively and efficiently. As responsibilities for formalization and maintenance of land
information are decentralized, these lessons needto be incorporated in strategies at the local as well
as national levels. To accomplish this, consideration should be given to buildinggreater capacity at
the local level.

(d) A Strong Coordinated PolicyFramework:Major issues are the complexity of laws and rules
affecting property and the lack of continuity in policy implementation. International experience has
shown that there i s a need to build a coordinated policy framework if the greatest benefits of
reforms are to be realized. There are four key policy areas that need to be distinguished but
coordinated because each affects the others: (i) socio-economic policies; (ii) (including
                                                   broad                               land
land use and management) policies; (iii)     property policies; and (iv) land information policies. As
new initiatives, such as building spatial data infrastructures develop, there will be a need to clarify
how these relate to these four policy areas.

(e) Coordinated Institutional Framework: The institutional framework affecting land and
property in Peru, as in all countries, is a function of history, economics, geography, and socio-
cultural issues. Institutional mandates are often segmented for historical reasons. Countries have
tried various means of better organizingthese mandates, including: (i)    development of new agencies
to oversee land and property; (ii)     consolidating mandates within an existing agency; (iii)   using
coordinating committees; (iv) striking an interim task force, etc. Peru needs to examine these
possible solutions to better coordinate efforts in formalization and management of property
information. Without coordination, the full benefits of these efforts may not be realized and the
costs cannot be minimized. To develop this new institutional framework there will be a need for
leadership and political support.

f) NationalSpatialInformationManagement Scheme: Property security directly depends on the
quality of property information management. If property information i s unreliable, out-of-date, or
incomplete, then the security of property rights cannot be ensured. Governments, financial
institutions, and property holders depend on sound management of this information as a national
resource. International experience has shown that property information needs to be considered
within the broader context of land or spatial (geographic) information. Peru needs to develop an
appropriate plan for managing property information within a larger land information management
policy if the information that i s collected duringformalization i s to provide secureproperty rights in
the future.

Strategy Implementation

Any strategy implementation should develop coordinated property rights policies that prevent and
minimize invasions. It should provide the necessary technical assistance for the preservation of the
achievements of the legal reforms that allowed COFOPRI to successfully formalize properties
within informal human settlements. It should ensure that the future legal reforms have a positive
economic impact on access to, and permanencein, formal property rights.

Implementation should support the establishment of RP so as to: (a) improve the quality of
registration services; and (b) assure the accessibility of registration services by the poor. It should
also provide for technical assistance to design the new registration model for RP, and to gradually
implement strategies to develop a cadastralbase for RP.




                                                   115

The strategy should develop new formalization services: (a) adapted to the needs of remnant
informal owners; (b) justified in terms of cost-benefit and cost-recovery; and (c) transferable to
decentralized governments. It should provide for refining the current formalization processes,
technical assistance and technology transfer to municipal governments, and validating services
through pilot projects.

The strategy should aim at increasing the economic impact of property rights by: (a) the reduction
of the information gap between formalized owners, and loan and infrastructure services providers;
(b) a greater understandingof the real estate markets inmarginalurban areas inorder to identify the
measures required to encourage, develop and facilitate property exchange and real estate
investment; and (c) the identification of opportunities for alliances between the public and private
sectors to promote the generation of businesses in the formalized areas and to facilitate investment
ininfrastructure and services.

During the March 2004 stakeholder workshop it was agreed that fitting within larger GoP policies
of decentralization, national competitiveness, urbanization and housing, the following actions were
critical for the improvement of property rights security in Peru: (a) a national land policy to provide
overall consistency and improve equitable access to land and property for all citizens; (b) to reduce
the overlapping and conflicting mandates among organizations responsible for implementing the
land policy; (c) a land information policy to assist in property reforms and implementation of the
land policy; (d) to change the pervading culture in Peru to be more registration conscious and
provide the incentives to ensure the benefits of registration are understood and realized; and (e) an
administrative reengineering in order to provide the institutional and organizational basis for
consistent, clear, equitable, and efficient policy implementation.




                                                    116

                                     Annex 16: Social Assessment
              PERU: REAL PROPERTYRIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

1.       Introduction

A social assessment (SA) was carried out duringthe preparation of this Project. The SA reviewed
the outcomes of the UPRP from a social perspective, identified social issues the Project must
consider to increase and consolidate the security of property rights, and recommended actions to
enhance Project outcomes, in particular for poor men and women residing in urban and peri-urban
areas.42 Project design took into account such recommendation and specific aspects will be
    .
includedinthe Operational Manual. Key recommendations included:

         Integrate an empowerment perspective in the property formalization process to facilitate
         grassroots capacity-building so that men and women can serve as advocates for property

    *    rights issues of concern to them, their families, andtheir communities;
    .    Broaden and strengthen behavior change communication, as a means to realize and sustain
         the benefits of secure property rights;
         Develop an action plan that linksthe promotion of a registrationculture to improvements in
         the design and delivery of registry services;
         Develop a coherent, demand-driven, and need-based strategy to facilitate investments in
    .    formalized communities and promote equitable access to credit for low-income
         populations; and
         Strengthen Project monitoring and evaluation to contribute more effectively to operational
         decision-making.

The methodology comprised document reviews, in-depth individual interviews, and focus groups.
As part of the document review, the SA examined the socioeconomic studies carried out by the
UPRP (see Annex 12) to gain a deeper understanding of lessons learned. Likewise, the SA
reviewed the reports for COFOPRI-UPRP baseline surveys, implemented in 2000 and again in
2004.43 Duringa field mission to Peru in September 2004, the SA conducted 30 in-depth individual
interviews and 2 focus groups with institutional stakeholders (COFOPRI and SUNARP) to gain
further insight on lessons learned from the UPRP, identify socio-institutional and gender issues
affecting the proposed Project, and validate the emerging findings of the document review.
Particular attention was given to the people at the front line of service delivery, for example,
community/field promoters, field surveyors, and conciliation specialists. Focus groups were carried
out with SUNARP registrars and communication specialists who had participatedin the registration
promotion campaign carried out under the UPRP, with micro-credit and education specialists who
had participated in a credit promotion initiative, and with COFOPRI promoters. The results of two
stakeholder workshops provided additional inputs to the SA. The first workshop (March 2004)
focused on broader policy issues and brought together key decision-makers to gather inputs for
Project design. The second workshop (December 2004) brought together 77 participants (which
included community leaders, provincial and district mayors, and the private sector) to discuss and


42The SA reviewed Ruiz Abril, Maria Elena, "Operationalizing Gender inWorld Bank-Financed Rural
Development Projects: Three Cases in Central America", F A O N o r l dBank, 2004. The insights gained from
the case studies will provide a framework to operationalize gender inthe Project. The SA also reviewed a
Bank study on indigenous people in Latin America (Hall and Patrinos, 2004) and applied relevant policy
recommendations.
43See Cuhto, "Baseline Survey", 2000, and Apoyo Consultoria, "Baseline Study, Final Report", 2000 for
sample design, replicated in the second survey, see ESAN-IMASEN, "Second Baseline Survey and Study",
2004.


                                                     117

validate the conclusions of the March workshop, identify key themes and priority actions for the
proposed Project, and generateconsensus on stakeholder roles and responsibilities.44

2. Overview of the Target Population and Effects of Property Formalization

The Project will formalize between around 815,000 urban and peri-urban properties of which
approximately 515,000 will result in individual property titles that will benefit nearly 2.5 million
Peruvians or about 10% of the total population. The Project will target informal low-income
settlements but will also expand into more traditional non-poor areas within Participating
Municipalities were non-regularized residential and commercial properties are located.                       The
expanded yet targeted approach to formalization-cadastre services will help:


     1  Increase citizen and local government awareness about the relevance of property rights and
        promote a culture of registration at a wider societal level;
        Strengthen the capacity of local governments to operate more effectively in a climate of
     .  decentralization by supporting the development of a municipal cadastre, an important
        planning tool for urban development and local investment; and
         Generate cross-subsidies for the formalization process, and subsequently for the operation
         and maintenance of a quality municipal cadastre.45

Nevertheless, as was the case under the UPRP,the direct and primarybeneficiaries of formalization
will continue to be low to moderate-income families that are at different phases of settlement and
dwelling consolidation.      This section provides an overview of the target population, drawing
attention to factors that may constrain effective and equitable access to the socioeconomic benefits
of property rights; discusses some of the findings of the Baseline and Follow-up Surveys; and
identifies issues that may require further research.46

Most of the target population is poor or extremely poor. According to the 2004 Survey, 60.5%
of respondents considered themselves poor and nearly 25.0% extremely p0or.4~ Poverty was
perceived as more acute among households outside of Lima, in particular in the northern coast and
highlands of Peru (Costa Norte, Sierra Centro, and Sierra Sur). Overall, a higher portion of the
poor in the target population appear to be concentrated in the Peruvian Sierra. The percentage of
integrated households was the highest in Lima and the urban southern Sierra, 38.6% and 33.1%,
respectively. This highlights the socioeconomic diversity of the target population across and within
geographical domains, which may have implications for the design and implementation of new
decentralized formalization-cadastre services and "post-formalization" programs such as investment
and credit promotion.




44Giventime and resourceconstraints, the SA was not able to conduct interviews with formalization
beneficiaries.However, the SA relied on UPRP studies, which adequatelycapturedbeneficiaryperceptions on
property rights issues, and on the final reports from two stakeholder workshops (March 2004 and December
2004).
45The Project will work with local stakeholders to determine the universe of non-regularized propertiesand
structure the delivery of cadastreservices (full cost-recovery basis, special tariffs, or no-costprinciples).See
Annex 1.
46This sectiondraws on the results of the Baselineand Follow-up Surveys (2000 and 2004). Tables and charts
are the product of Survey Reports."Lima" refers to the LimaMetropolitanarea. To explain or qualify some of
the survey data, extensiveuse is made of other studies, including those financed by the UPRP.
47The Surveyreportedrespondent-definedpoverty (subjectivepoverty) so it may differ from povertydata
reportedinPeru's NationalHousehold Surveys.


                                                       118

           Table 2.1: Percent of households (HH)in poverty by geographical urban domain, 200448
                             Lima      Costa North     Sierra Central  Sierra South    Selva       Mean
 HHinpoverty                 50.0          64.8             64.4           63.1         58.6        60.5
 HHinextremepoverty          18.1          27.9             29.2           23.1         18.6        24.9
 IntegratedHH                38.6          21.4             28.0           33.1         28.6        28.3
     Source: 2004 Survey.

Interms of household structure andfamily composition, 75.4% (2083) of the populationwere male-
headedhouseholds, most likely dual-parent families, in comparison to 24.6% (679) of single-parent
families with female head~hip.~'     The percent of female-headed householdswas on average 4 points
higher than the national average of 20.8%:'          Mean years of schooling for the head of household
was 7.8 years; illiteracy rate was 6.3%. Head of households reported a relatively advanced average
age (54 years of age), and were approaching the thirdphase of their life cycles (tercera ed~d).~'        On
average, founding families had established residency within the respective informal settlement
nearly two decades ago.

             Table 2.2: Household (HH)composition and characteristics of HHhead, 2000-2004
                                                                            2000           2004
              Percent Male headship                                          76.1          75.4
              Percent Female headship                                        23.9          24.6
              Family resides in settlementhouse since                       1982           1982
              Number of HHresidents                                           5.4           5.1
              Age of HHhead                                                  50.0          53.8
              HHheadyears of schooling                                        8.1           7.8
              Percent HHhead illiteracy rate                                  7.6           6.3
                  Source: 2000 and2004 Surveys

Customary marriage practices and its potential effect on the security of property rights. A study of
formalized households in Lima found that most spouses had established families based on common-
law traditions. The results of the study suggest that most co-ownership titles were issued to spouses
incommon-law (informal) marriage with established families; on the other hand, most single-owner
titles were issued to single women with children and separated from or abandoned by their
respective husbands.52The same study revealed that afer formalization, family composition and
household structures had changed: (a) female household heads established new families; and (b)
male spouses moved away from their households, transforming such households into de facto
female-headed ones. Given the longevity gap between men and women, de facto female headship
may also result from widowhood. In the former case, forging new relationships may be part of an


48 Survey sample comprised 2,762 households: 717 in Lima Metropolitan; 1142 in the urban northern coast
(Piura, Chiclayo, Trujillo, and Chimbote); 603 in the central urban highland (Huancayo); 160 in the southern
urban highland (Arequipa); and 140 in northern urban Selva (Iquitos).
49 Headship was identified as the person who other members of the HHrecognized as such, the HHmember
who contributed most to household earnings, or as last resort, the eldest member of the HH. Note that another
study examined data from the 2000 Baseline Survey and showed that in HHs where both spouses were
present, 17.1% of them identified a woman as HHhead. (Informet 2002: p. 14).
50 Peru National HouseholdSurvey (ENAHO) 1997-2001. Since headship often indicates the presence or
absence of the male spouse (Informet 2002 and others), the data may suggest that the proportion of female-
headedHHmay be higher due to family dissolution or that men life expectancy may be lower causing early
widowhood among women.
5' The average life expectancy for Peruvian men and women in 2000 was 67 and 72 years of age, respectively
(GenderStats 2002).
52 See Informet, "Study on the Effects of Titling on the Development of Women" [in Spanish], 2002. Froma
sample of 120 female beneficiaries, 12% were formally married and 40% who were in consensual unions or
concubinato (term used in the study).


                                                      119

economic survival strategy. Inaddition, establishing a relationship with a partner already installed
in another settlement may be a strategy to access secure housing.           In the later case, the property
often remained underjoint ownership in the names of the original spouses. According to the study,
associatedeconomic costs precluded the regularization of changes in household structure, given the
precarious nature of family economies (Informet 2002: p. 13).        Inlightofthe abovediscussion, the
    .
SA identified areas for further research, including:

         Effect of changes in the household structure (abandonment, separation, divorce, and
         widowhood) on the market use of co-ownership title (for women and men);

         Socio-cultural norms and economic constraints to regularizing changes in the ownership of
    .    marital property assets; and establishing secure inheritance rights among siblings; and

         Socio-cultural norms and practices related to the transfer of property through inheritance,
         transactions costs of regularizing inheritance rights of family members (perhaps from
         multiple families), and the socio-economic effect of the informal generational transfer of
         property. This i s particularly relevant since most of the founding members of the
         households, who acquired secure property rights through formalization, were approaching
         the end of their life cycles.

Female-headed households are among poorest.53 While the majority of sampled households
were poor, 2004 survey data revealed dramatic differences between female and male heads of
households.      As shown below, 63.9% of female-headed households were poor, and 29.6% were
extremely poor, in comparison to 59.3% and 23.4% of male-headed households, respectively.
Likewise, 21.8% of female-headed households were moderately poor (integrated households) in
comparison to 30.5% of male-headedhouseholds.

                  Table 2.3: Percent of households inpoverty by male/female headship, 2004
                                                            Male       Female          Mean
                  HHinpoverty                               59.3          63.9          60.5
                  HHinextreme poverty                       23.4          29.6          24.9
                  Integrated HH                             30.5           21.8         28.3
                  Total                                     2083            679         2762
                      Source: 2004 Survey

Literacy and schooling attainment of household head. While poor men and women alike are less
educated and less literate than their non-poor counterparts, survey data revealed significant
differences within the sampled target population, in particular between men and women household
heads. Inthe 2004 survey, 17.1% of female household heads were illiterate, in comparison to 3.2%
of male household heads. 54 Likewise, women had less years of schooling than men. In fact, the
mean years of schooling for women in the sampled population (5.6 years) was much lower than the


53The analysis of the 2004 Survey, by contrast with the 2002 Survey, reported variances between female and
male-headed households. To supplement the results of the 2004 survey, the consulting firm conducted
male/female-only focus groups: 28 men and 20 women (included wives as co-owners) in Human Settlements.
Additional insights on women's views came from a study of 120 female beneficiaries in Lima, co-owners and
single-owners (Informet 2002). The study examined the socioeconomic profile of female beneficiaries and
explored the impact of formalization on women and their households, including gender relations at the
community and household level.
54The illiteracy rate of men inthe sample population was much lower than the national aggregate statistic of
6.1%; the illiteracy rate of women in the sample population was similar to the national aggregate statistic of
17.9% (ENAHO-1997-2001).


                                                     120

national mean of 8.3 years. 55 Over the past 20 years, adult illiteracy rate has declined for men and
women as well as the youth illiteracy rate (GenderStats, World Bank) and the educational gaps
between men and women have been decreasingover time.

Nevertheless, the cumulative effects of education inequalities between the poor and the non-poor,
and between men and women, remains a structural barrier that constrain the poor's ability to access
economic opportunities, including those provided by secure property rights. Lack of education may
also affect their learning capacity and thus their ability to benefit from traditional capacity-building
programs. As the data suggests, the constraints are more acute for poor women, in particular for
female head of households (Informet, 2002: p. 14). This affects the Project in several ways, for
example, differences in schooling attainment and literacy rates may affect the ability of the poor
men and women, in particular the older generation of women, to understand the information
provided by COFOPRI during field visits and to participate in decision-making during property
formalization (cadastre surveys and ownership verification).

                    Table 2.4: Characteristics of household by male/female headship, 2004
                                                               Male     Female        Mean
                  Family resides in house since                1983        1980         1982
                  Number of HHresidents                          5.2        4.6          5.1
                  Age of HHhead                                 53.1       55.9         53.8
                  HHheadyears of schooling                       8.5        5.6          7.8
                  Percent HHhead illiteracy rate                 3.2        17.1         6.3
                    Source: 2004 Survey

Employment and monthly earnings. On average, the percentage of head of households employed in
the formal sector remained the same during 2000-2004, however employment on a short-term
contract basis increased, which implies less benefits. Percentageof households with secondaryjobs
declined dramatically, from 19.0% in 2000 to 7.1%, reflecting the overall lack of employment
opportunities in the formal labor sector.            In turn, household dependence on income from
independent work in the formal sector increased, from 57.0% in 2000 to 61.5% in 2004. The
average monthly earnings of households in the target population was approximately US$305
(S/. 1052).56

Significant disparities were observed between the earnings of male and female heads of household,
US $317 (S/1089) compared to US $271(S/935), respectively. While only 7.0% of male heads of
households reported having a secondary job, the income from such secondary jobs contributed to
nearly 35% of'total household income. A slightly higher percentage of female heads of households
reported having a secondary job (9.0%), which contributed 29.0% to total household income.
Gender differences may be partly explained by the fact that women earn less than men in the
informal sector and on average earn only 60.0% of what men earn in the formal sector?' Among
female heads of household, less education and sole responsibility of childcare may further limit
opportunity and access to higher payingjobs in the formal sector. Inaddition, the average number
of residents in male-headed households was 5.2 compared to 4.6 for female-headed households (see




55Mean years of schooling for men in the sample population was 8.5 years, which was similar to national
mean of 8.9 years (ENAHO 1997-2001).
  Of the total working-age population over 13 years of age, 66.0% were engaged in some form of work. Of
that group, 17.0% were unpaid. (Trivelli, C., Chapter 9 in G.Hall and H. A. Patrinos, "Indigenous People,
Poverty and Human Development in Latin America: 1994-2004")
57Trivelli, C., Chapter 9 in G.Hall and H.A. Patrinos, "Indigenous People, Poverty and Human Development
inLatin America: 1994-2004".


                                                      121

Table 2.4) which gives the former type of household/family structure greater access to income
securedby other household members.




             Table 2.5: Formal sector employment and income by male/female headship, 20045s
                                                                  Male      Female       Mean
          Percent HHhead employed                                  76.0       54.0        70.0

          Status o f employed HHhead (% of those that work)
          HHhead employed on atemporary contract basis             58.0       42.0        56.0
          HHheademployed with indefinite contract                  36.0       23.0        34.0
          HHhead working independently                             60.0       70.0        62.0
          HHhead with asecondaryjob                                 7.0        9.0         7.O

          Monthly salary of HHhead (S/)                             735        491        689
          Monthly income from secondaryjob (S/)                     375        273        350
          Monthly family income (SI)                               1089        935        1052
           Source: 2004 Survey

Economic use of formalized properties. The percentage of households using their property for
economic purposes declined between 2000 and 2004; however, the income generated from such
activity increased significantly for most sampled households. According to the surveys, in 2000 an
average of 24.0% of households reported using their property for economic activity, which
generated an average monthly income of US$81 (S.280).             In contrast, in 2004 only 16.0% of
households reported using their property for economic activity, but the average monthly income
generated from such activity increased to approximately US$120 (S.414). Important differences
were observed between households, according to the type of document. Among households with a
municipal title, many of which have been regularized by COFOPRI, monthly income generated
from home-based activity increased from US$81 (S/.282) in 2000 to US$115 (S.397) in 2004.
Likewise, among households who had purchased their land parcel, again many of which had been
regularized by COFOPRI, monthly income generated from home-based activity increased from
US$97 (S.335) in 2000 to US$233 (W.804) in 2004. Among households with male headship, most
home-basedactivity is undertaken by the respective spouse and other family members.

                   Table 2.6: Home-based economic activity by male/female headship, 2004
                                                           Male      Female         Mean
                 Convenience store (tiendu)                56.3         67.3         58.9
                 Food sale                                  8.3          9.3          8.5
                 Repair shop                               10.1           1.9         8.1
                 Internet cabinet                           5.5          5.6          5.5
                 Garment/textile/seamstress/tailoring       5.2          7.5          5.8
                 Carpentry                                  5.2          0.9          4.2
                 Electronic repair shop                     2.1           3.7         2.5
                 Metal shop                                  1.8          0.0         1.4
                 Shoe production                             1.2         0.9           1.2
                 Arts and craft shop                         1.2          0.0         0.9
                 Beauty salon                               0.9         90.0          0.9
                 Others                                     5.5           1.9         -
                                                                                      4.5
                   Source: Baseline Survey, 2004


58Employment and income data as reported by the Baseline Survey Report made it difficult to distinguish
whether independent work and secondaryjobs were within the formal or informal sectors.


                                                     122

The urban poor value the legal security provided by property formalization. Focus groups
carried out as part of the 2004 survey, showed that, above all, the urban poor valued the ownership
status that formalization had provided. Men and women alike talked about the security and peace
of mindthat came with formalization. The survey found that households that perceived the highest
level of legal security were those with COFOPRI titles (92.6% in 2004). Yet the same households
were not able to distinguish between a "registered" title and a non-registered one. Such households
may lack a broader understanding of what formalization had entailed (legal-physical regularization,
registration of property rights, and issuance of title) and thus may not perceive the full implication
of secure property rights. This lack of awareness may also diminish the perceived benefit of
formalization (e.g. in terms of property values). In addition, nearly half of the households that
lacked documentary evidence of ownership manifested a relatively comfortable level of security
(43.8% in 2004). To understand this finding, it is important to keep in mind that COFOPRI
formalized property rights of families who, on average, had resided in their respective settlements
for approximately two decades. In the case of Human Settlements, these communities had been
through an initial phase of squatting on unimprovedland with no basic services, intermediate stages
of physical and legal consolidation (self-help efforts and political struggles for land rights), and
concluding stages of urban consolidation (although still as mostly poor communities).

Therefore, during the process of self-help consolidation, communities acquired social acceptance
and de facto security; which in turn may explain what the numbers appear to suggest-an
intermediate yet progressive increase in perceived security, where formalization provided the
highest level of security.59 A sense of security was also established for those who acquired their
land through transactions in the informal real estate market (purchase-sale contracts) or through
Government housing programs.            Nevertheless, as the participatory research has confirmed,
formalized property titles have an intrinsic and high symbolic value: access to a property title was
an indisputable confirmation that the personal sacrifice and hardship poor migrant families had
endured over the past decades had finally been recognized. The formalized population perceived
their homes as a place of security and social cohesion, rather thanjust an economic,asset. As such,
property titles were associatedwith recognition of full citizenship, converting formalization policies
into a powerful instrument for social inclusion.

                   Table 2.7: Perception of Legal Security by Document Type, 2000-2004
          Type of Document            Year              Perception of Legal Security (%)
                                              Secure           Insecure          Does not know
          COFOPRI title               2000    94.0             5.0               1.o
                                      2004    92.6              5.5              1.9
          MuniciDal title             2000    87.0              13.0             0.0
                                      2004    89.0              8.4              2.6
          Purchase-salecontract       2000    78.0              22.0             0.0
                                      2004    85.8              12.9             1.3
          Other documents             2000    47.0              27.0             2.0
                                      2004    43.8              23.6             6.9
          No documents                2000    47.0             46.0              7.0
                                      2004    43.8              43.0              13.2
          Total                       2000    81.0              18.0              1.o



59Other UPRP studies suggested the expected benefits of massive formalization might be underestimated
since an important percentage of the formalized population had some proof of ownership (although informal)
upon formalization. The views of households without property documents may have been influenced by the
expectation of formalization. The economic downturn of 1997-2000may have also constrained the potential
economic impact of formalization.


                                                   123

                                        2004    85.1                11.4              3.5
           Source: BaselineSurvey, 2000 and 2004

Interms of property values, surveyed households felt that the market value of their property had
declined since 2000.60 However, the data may reflect underreporting or "misreporting" among
surveyed households. For example, among households that received a COFOPRI title, the response
for "yes a lot" dropped significantly from 40.5% in 2000 to 29.7% in 2004. However, the response
for "yes somewhat" and "yes a little" increased significantly as well. In fact, as suggested in the
2004 survey report, households appeared to hold back their true response because they felt that the
survey was collecting data for tax purposes or that the Government was trying to circuitously
determine whether they had more than one property. The results of the 2004 survey's focus groups
provided some support to these observations: the responses of men and women revealed a deep
distrust of the Government. Participants perceived that the Government was unconcerned about the
lives of the poor and their taxes did not result in improved services for low-income families
(Baseline Report: 2004, p. 38).

Ingeneral, the findings suggest that most surveyed households did not distinguishbetween the
benefits and the legal validity of a duly registered property title (COFOPRI title) from those of other
(potentially non-regularized) property documents (a municipal title, a purchase-sale contract, a
document provided by the Association of Homeowners of a particular settlement, among others).61
In spite of recent investments by the UPRP to promote the benefits of secure property rights, the
findingsof the Baseline Survey clearly suggest that further investments mustbe made.

          Table 2.8: Has access to a property certificate or title increased the value of your property?
                        Cofopri Title    Municipal Title    Purchase-Sale           Other            Mean

                       2000      2004     2000     2004     2000       2004    2000      2004    2000     2004
         Yes,alot       40.5      29.7     29.4    24.2      18.4      23.8      11.4     12.9    24.8    23.6
   Yes, somewhat        26.8      30.1     27.3    24.9      26.8      21.9      17.5     21.1    24.2    25.9
       Yes, alittle      8.6      20.1     17.7    20.0      30.6       15.8     15.3     15.8    17.0     19.3
                No      14.2       7.5     15.4    12.6      14.1       19.1    41.1      19.1    22.6     11.8
       Don't know        9.9      12.6     10.2    18.3      10.1      31.1      14.7     31.1    11.4     19.4
              Total   100.0     100.0     100.0   100.0    100.0       100.0   100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0


Formalization data may facilitate access to public and private services and infrastructure.
Survey data observed that access increasedsomewhat or remainedbasically the same (depending on
the type of service), although households with property documents had better access to public
services than those without any proof of tenure. As depicted in the table below, households
reported that access to potable water, sanitation infrastructure, electricity, and telephone improved
upon issuance of property documents (31.3%, 35.7%, 27.2%, and 73.1%, respectively). Between
2000 and 2004, sanitation services increased significantly for all households regardless of tenure
status from 74.0% in 2000 to 92.3% in 2004, including households without property documents.
Improvements were also observed in access to electricity and telephone services for sampled
households (with or without property documents), although to a greater extent for formalized
households.


6o For a detailed exploration of the increased value o f immovable properties attributed to formalization, see
Annex 9.
61 Several studies commissioned by COFOPRIincluding Apoyo Consultoria (2003) reached a similar
conclusion. While titling increased the market value of property, for the time being, the formalized
population may not fully recognize the economic benefits (see Annex 9). The recent decentralization process
may also partially explain survey results.


                                                       124

Yet the numbers provide only a partial understanding of the effect of formalization on the delivery
of pubic and private services. Service providers (in particular, electricity) reported that they
prioritized areas that had been formalized by COFOPRI. Formalizationmay have contributed to the
design of service provision plans since the information collected and maps produced during
formalization helpedidentify settlements and assess potentialusers of services. This was supported
in focus groups where community residents observed that providers of electricity services
approached the settlement soon after formalization (Focus group, Baseline Survey 2004). Overall
the findings suggest that while access to basic services appears to improve to a greater extent for
households with property documents (regardless of the legal security of such document), the
policies that guide the delivery of services respond to broader social development goals and are
influenced by the investment plans of service providers. However, the data also suggests that
formalization may improve the probability of access if service providers use formalization data to
informinvestment plans.

The results of the Baseline Survey suggest that the social and economic effects of property
formalization may be augmented in several ways. Inparticular, there i s an enormous but largely
untapped potential for the use of the physical-legaland socioeconomic data collected by COFOPRI.
The proposed Project must actively disseminate the potential use of formalization data to promote
and facilitate the delivery and coverage of public and private services, in particular for less
consolidated and perhaps more isolated settlements.               In addition, further research must be
undertaken to determine how the Project can best contribute to increasing the economic impact of
secure property rights. For example, the Project requires a greater understanding of the real estate
markets in marginal urban areas in order to identify the measures required to encourage, develop,
and facilitate property exchange and real estate investment.               To improve credit promotion
strategies, further research must be undertaken to understand the characteristics and the needs of
informal enterprises within the formalized population and the constraints to growth.

Understandingthe multiethnic and multilingualdimension of the target population. Between
2000 and 2004, formalization activities advanced considerably into geographical regions outside of
Lima, including into the regions identified above as the most poor. The increase of formalization
activity in the Costa Norte has been dramatic.             As shown below, formalization activity has
increased there by nearly 53%, followed by a 33% in the Sierra Centro.6' Yet as formalization
advanced into these regions, cultural and language gaps became more apparent and, in some areas,
delayed the achievement of production targets.              To address the language gap and increase
efficiency, COFOPRI implemented bilingual information-dissemination community meetings and
tapped into the resources of local and community-level interpreters. The effectiveness of these
proactive actions, however, may be constrained by the lack of clear organizational guidelines to
ensure the effectiveness of bilingual communication.

               Table 2.9: Type of property document by geographical urban domain, 2000-2004
 Documentheldprior       Year      Lima     CostaNorte    Sierra Centro  Sierra Sur      Selva      Mean
 to formalization(%)
         Cofopri title   2000        38.5          15.2            0.5        70.6          6.4      20.8
                         2004        53.0         68.1            33.3        81.3        27.1       55.3
       Municipal title   2000        22.1         39.6            28.0          6.9       67.9       32.1
                         2004        22.9         24.3            17.9         15.6       65.1       24.1



  Survey data may not capture the magnitude of COFOPRI's formalization activities, as the sample focused
on the eight informal urban areas originally defined by the UPRP. Due to increased demand and
organizational capacity, coverage was expanded to six additional urban areas (Ayacucho, Ica, Junin,
Moquegua, Tacna, and Ucayali).


                                                      125

    Purchasecontract     2000         3.2           4.4               48.5          16.9         3.6    14.4
                         2004         7.8           6.5               24.7          60.0         15.7   10.9
     Otherdocument       2000        32.1          35.4               21.2           5.6         18.6   28.8
                         2004        18.1           9.1               38.6           5.0         9.3    17.7
        No document      2000         4.1           5.5                1.8           0.0         3.6     3.9
                         2004         7.5           0.0                0.0           0.0         0.0     2.0
    Source: 2000 and2004 Surveys
    Note: "Other document" refers to community-issued certijicates of possession or adjudication

In focus groups conducted by the SA, the facilitators and trainers of the registrationcampaign and
credit promotion program recounted their experiences and in that process of dialogue and self-
evaluation, the topic of inter-culturalism surfaced frequently. For example, facilitators recognized
that future campaigns to promote a culture of registration in Ayacucho (highland) must take into
account the cultural vision of its people, language differences, education and poverty levels, and the
general attitude toward the official State system, includingthe effects of previous relationships and
interactions with governmental apparatus. Likewise, the following action proposals emerged from
discussions with facilitators of the credit promotion workshops and will be applied by the Project:
(a) develop bilingual materials based on an understanding of the cultural vision of the communities
and the gender-differentiated daily challenges they face in their entrepreneurial projects; (b)
diversify the codes of communication, simplify technical jargon, and use the vocabulary of the
community; and (c) buildtrainer capacity to use visual and interactive methods to promote learning
among illiterate or semi-literate men and women.

Apply an inter-cultural approach to Project implementation. While the Project does not target
indigenous people per se, the above discussion underscores the importance of applying an inter-
cultural approach to Project implementation, one that recognizes the multiethnic and multilingual
background of households within the target population and the associateddynamics and challenges
of inclusion.    Moreover, as the Project i s expected to work in peri-urban areas such as Cusco and
Puno where a significant population of indigenous descent i s present, further research will be
undertaken to better understand the multiethnic dimension of the target population and improve the
effectiveness of Project a~tivities.6~

3.       CommunityParticipationandPropertyFormalization

The community plays an integral role in the property formalization process. A recent policy
analysis of property reforms in Peru recognized and confirmed the importance of the information
campaigns and citizen engagement strategiesimplementedby COFOPRI-UPRP, especially interms
of moving property reforms forward effectively and effi~iently.~~The proposed Project will
continue to promote the active involvement of the community within the context of a new national
formalization strategy. The SA reviewedthe formalization process, placing emphasis on the role of
communities.      Second, it identified and analyzed problem areas and concluded with specific
recommendations to strengthen community participation and promote gender equity and social
inclusion inthe formalization process.



63Accordingto a Bankstudy, between25 to 48% of Peruvianhouseholdscan be consideredof indigenous
culture: the lower limit correspondsto households in which the householdheadlspouseused an indigenous
language(Quechua, Aymara or a native languageof the Amazonian region) more frequently than Spanish; the
upper limit identifiesall Peruvianhouseholds in which the householdheadlspousehaveparents or
grandfathers that had an indigenous mother tongue. For a full review of the data on povertyand indigenous
people inPeru, see Trivelli, C., Chapter 9 in G. Hall and H.A. Patrinos, "Indigenous People, Povertyand
HumanDevelopment in Latin America: 1994-2004".
64 Terradigm2004:   p. 19


                                                       126

Overview of community involvement during the formalization process. To formalize property on a
massive, rapid, and cost-effective manner, COFOPRI developed an efficient system with three
distinct phases. As COFOPRI responds to the new decentralization context and enters areas with
complex tenure issues and with dispersed communities, large-scale systematic campaigns may no
longer be suitable.65The Project will provide technical assistanceto refine the current formalization
system to respond to remnant formalization demand in a cost-effective manner. The basic elements
of the system, however, will remain including community participation, as discussedbelow.66

Diagnosis and stratepic ulanninp.Process 0 gathered data on informality in targeted areas (through
analysis of existing databases followed by a site visit) and identified key legal and technical
obstacles to property f~rmalization.~'The results helped determine formalization demand, segment
demand by type of informal property, and develop strategies to address the specific problems of
eachjurisdiction, includingpotential land-related conflicts within the settlements. This information
also provided inputs to design a strategy for community involvement and organize the work of
COFOPRI field promoters. Hence, the interaction with the community during Process 0 was
minimal. To the extent possible, COFOPRI promoters set the groundwork for field activity and
established preliminary contact with community governance structures!'             Actions to mobilize and
organize community support for formalization were intensified progressively as the formalization
campaign advanced.

Internal site formalization. Process 1conducted a legal-physical analysis of the area and comprised
two levels of intervention: (a) delineation of the boundaries of settlement; and (b) delineation of
blocks and individual parcels. Indetermining settlement boundaries, a legal analysis was conducted
to identify potential pre-existing rights of the State or a third party and potential limitations to urban
land use. To develop an accurate physical description, the settlement was geo-referenced through
field surveys, and layout and plot mapping!'          Second, neighborhood blocks and individual plots




65 As of November 2004, with the passageof Law No. 28391, the ProvincialCommissionsfor Formalization
were dissolved and the ProvincialMunicipalitieshavethe Sole responsibilityto conduct formalizationin a
decentralized manner. The law requiresthat the Municipalitiesplan, organize, coordinate and executethe
formalizationprocess. However, COFORPI, intheir new role as a technical advisory body will provide
permanentlegaland technical assistance to ProvincialMunicipalitiesthroughinter-institutionalagreements.
For the most part, it is expectedthat COFOPRI will continue to play aprominentrole since most,
municipalitieslackthe necessary capacity to undertakethe formalizationprocess. COFOPRI, with support
from the Project, plansto develop a trainingprogramto transfer technical knowledgeand build municipal
capacity.
66 Project documents for the UPRP (1998), acase study preparedfor the ShanghaiConference(2004) by F.
Cantuarias and M.Delgadodescribe the participationof urbanlandholdersandcommunity leaders. For
further detail, see "Regularization process ut the Saul Cantorul Settlement: A case study" (1999) by Zoila Z.
Yi Yang. Interviewswith COFOPRIstaff (September 2004) providedadditional insights.
67 A particulardistrict may comprise several dozens of informal (squatter) settlements,each of which may
contain, for example,40 blocksof housing and 1000families. An area targeted duringa formalization
campaigncouldcover 50 to 70 settlements or 35,000 landparcels. The average durationof such a campaign
was 45 days and the cost per title rangedfrom US$50 to US$lOO, depending on the physical-legal
complexities (COFOPRI). Beforethe process couldtake between3 to 10years and cost up to US$2,156,
 nearly 5 times the minimumsalary of poor households(Yang 1999).
   Community promotershave extensivepracticalexperienceincommunitydevelopment. Many were former
 community leadersor hadbeenpromotersfor other social programs.
 69Settlementson archeological zones or areas highly prone to natural disasters (e.g. floods) were transferred
 to a specializedteamthat coordinatedthe respectiveinvestigationswith INC and INDECI. These agencies
 determinedwhether COFOPRIcouldproceedwith formalization and what safeguards the community or the
 municipalitymustput in place. Similarly, disputed claims were handledby a specializedteam.


                                                     127

were surveyed and a parcel map was produced. RPU (now RP) verified and registered the
     .
perimeter and parcel map. During settlement and individual plot delineation:

          Neighborhood assemblies/councils were organized and COFOPRI promoters: (a) explained
          and promoted the advantages of formal ownership; (b) described the formalization process
          and how the community should be involved; and (c) reviewed the documents families
          needed to provide to establish eligibility. The community elected representatives to
     .    coordinate formalization activities with COFOPRI.70

          Designated neighborhood representatives and landholders provided information about the
          areas in their possession, the land-related problems they faced, the maps they had, and the
          number of families that resided in the community. In addition, some residents helped
          measure and delineate the settlement and individual parcels, and identified areas set aside
          for communal use, which were marked with physical signals to help prevent invasions.
          Final decisions concerning the site were taken in coordination with community leaders and
          were recordedinpublic minutes that were discussedand approvedin community assemblies.

Individual titlindregistration. Process 2 formalized ownership rights to individual parcels, which
requiredthe active participationof community residents. By contrast with Process 1, the attendance
of community residents during assemblies was much higher.               During Process 2, COFOPRI
promoters revisited the information provided duringProcess 1, but this time with a wider and much
     .
more interested audience:

          Community promoters worked with neighborhood leaders to organize public assemblies to
          discuss and validate the information collected and analyzed thus far and address community
          concerns. COFOPRI also thoroughly reviewed the type of evidence families needed to
     .    verify possessionor ownership?l

          Field brigades, alongside community leaders, conducted a house-to-house census to verify
          occupancy and identify owners, and collected and verified proof of possessionor ownership
          documents. Data on owners and parcels was processedand entered into a database. During
          this activity, community promoters accompanied the technical field brigade, if they were
     .    not conducting informationalsessions in other settlements.

          Maps of the community and a list of eligible property owners were pre-published and
          posted in central locations within the neighborhood. The list was discussed and occupancy
          was verified in community assemblies before title issuance. A short period was allotted so
          that the community could review the list and raise complaints or objection^.^^          Process 2


70LegislativeDecree 803 and Law 27046 regulatethe Asamblea Informativa (InformationalAssembly).
Regulationsalso exist for the empadronamiento (census of landholders) and other similar field activities.
71Two types of evidence were required: a personal identity document (DNI) and possessionor ownership
documents. For ownership and possession, acceptedevidence includedthose usedby the community, for
example: public utility bills, possessiondocuments, loancontractsfor dwelling improvements, andthe
community's census. Decree Laws 495 and 496 providedfor the acceptance of customary proofs of
ownership inthe definitionof propertyrights.
72A legalteam inspectedand verified the documentsprovidedby the landholdersto ensure that such
documentssatisfied all legalrequirements. Ifpossessors/ownersoccupied privateproperty, COFOPRI
explainedthe situation to the respectivecommunity and promotedconciliationbetweenprivate owners and
settlers. A specialized conciliationteam workedproactivelyand creativelyto resolveindividual and
community levelproperty conflictsin atransparent and neutralmanner. Conciliatorsreceived training on
conciliationtechniques includingmethodsto correctpower imbalancesbetweenparties. COFOPRI


                                                    128

         concluded with a valid registered title (in the case of Human Settlements) or a regularized
         contract of sale (inthe case of Popular Urbanizations and Housing Cooperatives), both duly
         registered inRPU(now RP).

As the above discussion illustrated, COFOPRI created a field methodology that combined
participation mechanisms with on-the-ground data collection, thereby structuring community
involvement as an integral element of the formalization process. The formalization system also
created inter-disciplinary teams comprising social promoters, in addition to lawyers, engineers, and
architects. To summarize, community involvement during property formalization was essential
    ....
because it:

         Ensured that the formalization team understood the specific land-related problems the
         community faced;
         Improved the efficiency of document collection by introducing grassroots local knowledge
         into the surveying process and occupancy verification;
         Ensured that the newly registered property rights reflected the social consensus of
         communities;    73and
         Promoted community satisfaction with formalization outcomes.

The SA also recognized the proactive stance taken by COFOPRI. New communication methods
were implemented duringthe formalization processto respond to new demands. For example, since
the national formalization program included a heterogeneous set of properties and communities,
COFOPRI adjusted the content of the messages to reflect the cultural particularities of each region
and district. Consensus-building approaches were adapted to work with communities that lacked a
coherent internal governance structure. In addition, COFOPRI opened information offices to
receive new requests from informal settlements (to incorporate them in subsequent campaigns) and
answer specific questions about the formalization process. Inspite of the strength of this proactive
approach, the SA identified several shortcomings and recommended that the Project broaden the
objective of community participation, improve strategies, anddevelop new methodologies.

Conceptualize community participation in property formalization in broader terms.
Community participation was conceptualized as means to a specific end: the production of clear
and secure property titles. The overriding objective of the information campaigns was to provide
the community the information it needed to participate in the formalization process. The strategy
focused less on creating citizen ownership of the concepts and systems developed. For example, the
campaigns over-emphasized the role of COFOPRI in the formalization process and placed minimal
attention on the role of RPU and the importance of a registered title (Morris et a1 2004). Overall,
the information campaigns underestimated the knowledge needs of the urban poor and their
capacity to absorb and understand complex property rights issues.               Similarly, participation
mechanisms were designed as tools to: (a) implement an on-the-ground approach to ownership
verification and facilitate the collection of property information; (b) support the development of a
normative framework that was grounded in an understanding of informal local practices and
customs; and (c) garner community support and promote public legitimacy. While the objectives
that gu'ided communication strategies were valid and the participatory mechanisms used were
clearly necessary for cost-effective formalization, they proved to be insufficient. Many of the
studies carried out by the UPRP project, including the Baseline Survey, captured the unintended


developed and institutionalized appropriate safeguard procedures, including community meetings to discuss
and ratify conciliation agreements.
73See, McLaughlin, John and Palmer, David in "Integrated Land Administration: Institutional and Technical
Challenges", 1997,p. 12.


                                                    129

effect of the approach, especially in terms of citizen awareness. While COFOPRI promoters used
their extensive knowledgeto mobilize the urban poor, they recognized the limitations placed by the
formalization system, especially interms of citizen awarenessand community education.74

Part of the problem may be explained by the fact that the property formalization process was
originally designed with a limited understanding of the theoretical framework of social
communication and community participation. Moreover, certain factors may have inadvertently
obscured the linkages between citizen awareness and participation and the larger policy goal of
    .
increasing the security of property rights:

         Strong political pressure to rapidly produce tangible results (the registered title) at a low
    .    cost and a policy environment where the legitimacy and competency of COFOPRI was
         measuredprimarily by quantifiable outputs;
         An almost exclusive focus on integrating a critical mass of properties into the formal
         market without sufficient focus on a critical mass of people with new ownership rights,
         empowered to make informeddecisions about their properties;
         Organizational incentives that rewarded managers according to the number of titles
         produced within certain time parametersand at reduced costs (i.e. productiontargets); and
         Communication policies that focused on formalization and property reform "messages" and
         marginalizedor underestimated the information needs of the beneficiary population.

These institutional and organizational factors responded to a specific policy approach. On the
political side, a focus on delivering a significant number of regularized titles helped legitimize the
NFP and COFOPRI, which in turn, maintained the critical commitment of the Government,
facilitated the inter-institutional coordination required for data collection, and promoted the
participation of informal settlements. On the economic side, the Government envisioned that a
formalization programmed implemented in an "integral, comprehensive, and rapid" manner would
integrate a critical mass of formalized properties into the formal economy, which would activate the
real estate market and generate interest from the financial sect0r.7~ The policy approach was
perhaps a successful one; nevertheless, this Project provides a unique opportunity to improve how
COFOPRI and participating Provincial Municipalities conceptualize the involvement of
communitiesinthe formalization process.

Informationstrategies must respond to the diverse needs the urbanpoor. A study conducted to
evaluate the effectiveness of the methods used to inform the community and promote community
participation identified several methodological gaps. For example, some community residents felt
that the presentations delivered by COFOPRI were too brief or delivered in a manner that was too
technical and difficult to understand.76 Another study observed that some families were afraid to
ask questions during the public assemblies organized by COFOPRI, and others did not fully
understand the information distributed through pamphlets or provided by COFOPRI during
community as~emblies.~~Attendance at neighborhood assemblies and the community's
involvement during Process 1 was vaned and irregular. The studies, however, also revealed that
people reached out to their own community and family networks to clarify the information provided
by COFOPRI. This finding i s relevant for the proposed Project because it provides insights into
how poor communities validate external information and develop knowledge.


             ~~    ~




74"The formalization processsometimes i s too fast and does not give us enough time to educate people
properly" (Focus group COFOPRI promoters, September 2004).
75Based on SA interviews. Also see, Morris et a1 2004: p. 108
76Apoyo Communications (1999 and 2000)
77See, Desco, "Study on the Registration Culture", 2001, p. 31.


                                                    130

In some cases, as reported by COFOPRI promoters, the "off-putting" manner of the technical field
team frustrated residents, especially during Process 1 (site and parcel surveying). While the Field
Operation Unit reported that such complaints were infrequent, the potentialcultural-communication
gap highlighted several issues. First, the community clearly establishedand important level of trust
with COFOPRI field promoters, the first point of contact, who communicated with ordinary citizens
in a manner they could easily understand. However, COFOPRI promoters cannot possibly be
present at all times during the fieldwork and hiring more field promoters i s an inefficient solution.
Instead, the Project should work toward developing partnerships at the local and community-level
to reinforce the work of formalization promoters. Second, the technical field team (legal verifiers
and surveyors) may require training to improve their ability to communicate effectively with the
urban poor during the formalization process in a manner that promotes trust and improves
productivity.

Knowledge gaps between men and women. Several studies conducted by the UPRP revealed
significant information and knowledge gaps among the beneficiary population. While informational
gaps were observed among all households in general, women seemed to be even less aware than
men.     Women, and in particular older women, had limited understanding about their newly
formalized property rights. However, women who had received single-owner titles (female heads
of household) were more aware than their married counterparts with joindco-owner titles.
Similarly, women who had held community leadership roles were more aware than women who had
not. While low levels of educational attainment among poor households may affect their ability to
understand the information provided by COFOPRI during field visits, the problem appears more
acute among poor women.

Awareness of the concepts and systems developed. While the legal security and peace of mind
derived from formal property rightswas widely recognized by households, they may not necessarily
understand that formalized property titles may open up other opportunities to improve individual
and family welfare.         Doubts also remained about the long-term validity of titles issued by
COFOPRI and the role of local governments under the new decentralized property formalization
frarne~ork.~~      Will COFOPRI titles be valid once a new government comes into power? In
addition, households who possessed a document prior to formalization (e.g. municipal title) and
received a COFOPRI title wondered whether both documents c0existed.7~Some thought that both
titles were valid but COFOPRI titles were "more valid".              Similarly, formalized households, in
particular the poorest, did not realize that tbeir property titles were registered in the public registry.
Those that were aware were unable to articulate the benefits of property registration, even if they
believedthat registration provided "more security".




78 The concern about the long-term validity of COFOPRI-issued titles may relate to perceptions about the
political-institutional culture in general, where an incoming administrationreverses or invalidates the work of
the outgoing one (Le. policy discontinuity). The population's confusion about the role of local government
coincided with the views of policy makers whom recognized that overlaps and lack of clarity about municipal
governments in formalization and property information management affected the security of property rights
(March 2004 stakeholder workshop). The proposed Project will support the clarification and streamlining of
organizational mandates, which will also provide a better basis to promote a culture of registration.
79 According to the Baseline Survey    (2000), 51% of the sampled population had some type of
ownership/possession proof, prior to formalization (e.g. municipal titles, contract of purchase). However,
many of these documents were technically and legally deficient or were not registered and, therefore, were
regularized as part of the NFP. Insuch cases, the landholder received a certificate of rectification and
registration along with their original document.


                                                        131

Formalization under the proposed Project will evaluatethe effectiveness of communicationmethods
and determine how such methods and strategies need to be modified to take into account different
education and literacy levels within the beneficiary population. Language and cultural barriers will
also be taken into account, especially in areas where the population may be primarily monolingual.
Communication during formalization will aim to reduce the knowledge gaps between men and
women, tap into local and community-level resources, and increase citizen awareness and
ownership of concepts and systems developed.

Gender differentiated access to community-level decision-making structures. COFOPRI
worked primarily through the informal settlement's governance structure or the neighborhood
organization/association and, to some extent, with functional organizations dedicated primarily to
    .
survival issues such as health and nutrition."

        The neighborhood organization (such as the Comite' de Promocidn y Desarollo, Asociacidn
        de Pobladores) is the local structure responsible for settlement consolidation from the legal
        perspective (municipal recognition and titling) as well as the physical perspective
        (provision of basic services and infrastructure).      Prior to formalization, it was the most
        common vehicle for internal land acquisition and distribution and land-related conflict
        resolution. Men usually dominated this form of organization and participation in decision-
    .   makingprocess was usually guided by a one-property-one-vote rule.

        The functional organizations organized primarily as a survival strategy for the provision of
        subsistence for poor families but also included the cultural organization of the community.
        These included Comedores Populares (community kitchens), Comite's de Vasos de Leche,
        Mothers Club, Parent Associations, among others. Organizations relatedto family welfare,
        were led and serviced by women.

From a technical perspective, one could argue that the formalization process should be articulated
through the neighborhood organization.        However, such an approach may reinforce traditional
social norms about property as the male domain and result in inequitable access to the information
provided by COFOPRI.81 More importantly, such an approach does not build on the vital roles
women and men play in understanding and managing the land and housing problems that exist in
informal urban settings. While the participation of women as organizational leaders appears to be
increasing, especially in Lima, women in general may not have a real voice in the decision-making
process and, as a result, .may be excluded from decisions that are made in asambleas vecinales. For
example, a UPRP study observed that although women may have attended neighborhood councils
inhighnumbers,they generally didnot participate indecision-making.'*

Likewise, some COFOPRI promoters observed that while women were physically present at the
informational sessions, they tended to participate less in deci~ion-making.~~Given the traditional
participation of men in these organizations, men probably have more skills and experience than
women do in conveying their concerns to COFOPRI field staff.                     In addition, the internal
organizational dynamics of informal settlements and the legitimacy that local leaders enjoy within
the community vary from settlement to settlement. Hence, those who have less bargaining power




8oThis general overview has been documented innumerous publications external to the Project.
81A study undertaken by the UPRP found that people who assumed leadership roles within the community
were much better informed about the process of formalization than those that did not. See Desco 2001: p. 59
82Informet, 2002: p. 48-49.
83Focus group with COFOPRI community/field promoters, September 2004.


                                                   132

within the community (including disadvantaged men) may not be able to participate in community
decisions or have access to the information providedby COFOPRI.84

Recognizingthat some community members (men and women) did not always voice their concerns,
field promoters learned to anticipate their questions.            For example, during the informational
assemblies, COFOPRI promoters raised issues that were particularly sensitive for the community
and generally not discussed in public forums: property rights in informal marriages, abandonment,
separation and divorce.85 The effectiveness of the informational sessions, however, depended to
some extent on the manner in which the promoters conducted them, which varied from promoter to
promoter.       Some used participatory techniques and engaged the community in an interactive
dialogue while others delivered the information in a more rigid manner. To facilitate the outreach
process, some community promoters developed an informal social map of community organizations
to reach out to community leaders during the different phases of the formalization campaign.
Strategies were also developed to reach community residents when the internal governance
structure of a community was divided or conflict-ridden. Nevertheless, the methods may not take
into account that women often have a small political presence on community councils and some
communities may perceive public meetings as male spaces. These institutional barriers for women
will be considered during the formalization process to better mobilize local and community-level
support, which will also contribute to the sustainability of property rights.86

The principles and procedures for recordingjoint or individual ownership rights for women
need to be strengthened. COFOPRI has established a recording system that promotes gender
equality in property rights. In households were couples are formally married, joint titling is
mandatory and the formalization brigade records both names on the title. Couples in consensual
unions (unidn de hecho or informal marriages) were titled as co-owners, if they successfully
established that they had been together for at least two years.87 Inhouseholds where it i s clear that
one of the spouses (primarily the male spouse) had abandoned the household, a single-owner title is
issued to the de-facto single head of household (primarily women).

The property formalization system implemented by COFOPRI reflected a clear and significant
departure from the traditional practice of titling the male head of household. By putting in place a
system of norms and standardized procedures, COFOPRI helped ensure that the rights of both
women and men were protected in the titling and registration process. As of September 2004,
performance indicators of the UPRP showed that 48% of the titles were issued to men and 52% to
women. The breakdown interms of co-owner and single-owner titles appears below.

                          Table 3.1: Distribution of titles between men and women


84The limited decision making capacity of women in local governance structures was confirmed by the fact
that after the legal rights of women to property have been formally established, opportunities to participate in
local governance increased (Informet 2002). This is indeed a positive impact of property formalization;
however, the issue here i s the capacity of women to participate during the formalization process.
85Community residents (men and women) frequently approached COFOPRI after the town-hall
meetingdassemblies to ask questions about topics they were not comfortable discussing in a public gathering.
Recurrent topics included: abandonment, separatioddivorce, informal marriages, and "second" families (e.g.
men who had left their wiveskhildren and had established a new family). (Focus group with COFOPRI
promoters, September 2004).
86The transformation of gender roles are reflected in UNDPhuman development indices where, among
others, women's access to leadership roles i s understood to be tied to an increase in their opportunities for
"being and doing" (Sen 1993).
"AsprovidedintheCivilCode (Art. 326). Mostcouplesininformalmarriageswereestablishedfamilies
with young or older children.


                                                      133

                         OwnershiD tvDe            Percent of DroDertvtitles issued
                    Co-owner (joint)             61.O"
                    Single owner                 39.0
                                                     fl % Women: 66.79
                                                     fl %Men:      33.21
                       Source: CWCOFOPRI, September2004

Socialized gender norms may influence the interpretation and application of formalization
standards.      A study conducted in 2002, however, revealed potential inconsistencies in the
application of norms and standards related to de-facto female head of hou~eholds.~~The study
identifiedcases where women were "formally married" on paper but were clearly defacto head of
households. Prior to formalization, these women had been living with their children for a number
of years and their former spouses had already established new families and where living elsewhere.
However, the formalization process granted them joint ownership and the only recourse these
women had was to object the joint title in thejudicial system, an option that was most likely beyond
their means. Cases such as this demonstrate that gender training and continuous monitoring and
evaluation i s needed to ensure the effectiveness of operational policies that aim to promote equal
access to property rights. Although the SA could not determine the scope of the problem, the
Project will implement proactive measures to analyze and implement solutions to overcome implicit
or explicit discrimination inproperty formalization.

Thepurpose and benefits of joint property ownership must be actively promoted. Neither men nor
women fully understood the benefits of joint ownership. In fact, some men believed that their
respective spouses had secondary rights rather than equal rights. Given the socialization of gender
roles and the unequal status of women in Peru, the SA was not surprised to discover that some
women expected and accepted "lesser" rights because that was "how it should be"?'           To address
this issue, the Project will explore ways to promote gender equity in ownership rights, especially in
terms of conjugal land, whether resulting from formal marriages or consensual unions.           On the
other hand, the formal reco nition of property rights empowered some women to participate in
decisions related to property.  PI

Service providers also showed a partial understanding of the importance of joint ownership rights
and women's rights to property, which may affect the manner in which they communicate the
benefits of joint ownership to Project beneficiaries.     Interviews with service providers revealed a
range of perspectives. Some felt that property formalization was gender neutral because property
was formalized based on possession and ownership evidence, regardless of the landholder's
personal characteristics. Others stated that ownership rights were important for women because
informal marriages, separation, and abandonment were common social phenomena.92 In general,
service providers did not have the specialized training or the instruments (including organizational
directives) to incorporate social and gender issues into their work, a matter that capacity building
activities financed under the proposed Project should address.

Integrating an EmpowermentPerspectivein the Property Formalization




88 Co-owner titles were issued to married couples (formal or informal), but could also include two adult
siblings.
89 "Estudio sobre la dinrimica de 10s asentamientos humanos",SASE 2002: p. 31.
90Informet 2002: p.35
91Translatedexcerpts from Informet 2002: p. 34-35
92Interviews with serviceproviders, September 2004


                                                     134

Staff at the front-line of service delivery have demonstrated a deep level of commitment for
improving the lives of the poor. Formalization brigades perceived themselves not only as promoters
and technicians, but also as community educators and advocates of the poor.              The Project
subcomponent A.1 will build on this organizational strength; however, the Project's challenge in
term of property formalizatjon is clear: how to reach households and individuals in a timely and
cost-efSective manner but with a greater degree of responsiveness and community empowerment.
The formalization process itself must be viewed as opportunity to build capacity within
communities on issues related to property rights. Cost-effective information and communication
strategies that are gender-aware and culturally sensitive can contribute to such an objective. To this
.
end, the Project will provide technical assistanceto design and implement an improved strategy to:

     Build capacity and promote the participation of both men and women, so that they can better
..   serve as advocates for property rights issues of concern to them, their families, and their
     communities;
     Strengthen the capacity of community promoters and the formalization brigade in general to do
     their job more effectively; and
     Build partnerships with grassroots and community-based organizations and local NGOs to
     increase local ownership of property rights issues and support the work of Participating
     Municipalities and COFOPRI.

Communication strategies that promote community empowerment and equitable
participation. The Project will provide the theoretical framework and the practical tools to
effectively evaluate and respond to the social dynamics of settlements, implement communication
strategies to reach diverse groups, develop educational messages using appropriate language on
topics such as the benefits of formalization and property registration and the advantages of joint
titling. Communication strategies for formalization will go beyond simply disseminating
information and "selling" the benefits of property formalization. Instead, the strategy will promote
community empowerment and social inclusion and will seek to lay the foundation for "post-
formalization" educational campaigns and capacity-building workshops (Le. registrationculture and
credit promotion).

The Project will build on COFOPRI's extensive experience working with informal communities
and the formalized sector. COFOPRI and Participating Municipalities will participate in the
analysis and adaptation of communication and participation strategies. This will ensure that the
Project builds on current strengths, benefits from the tremendous insight and expertise COFOPRI
has developed overtime, taps into local knowledge, and creates organizational ownership for
change. The Project will provide technical assistance to develop appropriate tools such as social
mapping, rapid community appraisals, and diversity and gender analysis, among others. Action-
research methods will be supported to better understand how informal settlements access and
validate information (e.g. social and family networks, the role of gatekeepers) and how knowledge
i s developed. Specific attention will be placed on the different ways that men and women access
information and how socio-cultural and economic factors facilitate or constrain access.           The
Operational Manual will include a chapter on social issues to provide guidance on the use of
interpreters in bilingual assemblies and the design of community outreach and information-
dissemination strategies to promote equitable access to information and participation in decision-
making, among others. The Project will also develop an evaluation strategy that periodically
monitors the effectiveness of the communication approach. The evaluation strategy will include
indicators that capture the views of service providers, grassroots and community organizations, and
community leaders (men and women).




                                                 135

A clear organizational strategy on gender and property formalization. Communication
strategies will be linkedto an organizational gender strategy to promote equitable access to secure
property rights. To start the process, the Project will analyze formalization procedures and
performance indicators from a gender perspective. Service providers will participate actively inthis
process, providing inputs based on their practical experiences to enrich the analysis, but more
importantly, to build awareness and ownership. Organizational factors that may constrain the
implementation of a gender strategy will also be assessed. Based on these inputs, an operational
gender strategy will be developed.

Capacity-buildingprogramfor formalizationbrigades. A training program will be designed to
strengthen the capacity of the formalization brigade to put into practice new communication
methods and strategies. A participatory needs assessment will be carried out to identify key gaps in
the capacity of service providers. Capacity building activities will build on current strengths, re-
enforce current knowledge, breakdown stereotypes, and introduce new skills.          Themes to develop
include, among others: community participation and empowerment, language/cultural sensitivity
training, gender issues in the property formalization process, and conflict resolution.   93  The Project
will also increase awareness among services provides about the benefits of joint titling.94 To
strengthen institutional awareness on the importance of property rights for the poor, periodic
organizational workshops will take place to disseminate and discuss findings on the socioeconomic
impact of property formalization. Training will be provided to COFOPRI as well as municipal staff
that participate in the formalization process. Care will be taken so that training activities are not
implemented in an ad-hoc fashion; but rather, as part of a wider institutional and municipal
capacity-building program.

Improve access to customer service units and implement user surveys. COFOPRI opened
information offices to receive new request from informal settlements (to incorporate them in
subsequent campaigns) and answer specific questions about the formalization process. Ina random
survey of 5,442 users conducted in December 2003, 88.95% of those surveyed reported that
COFOPRI's service was "very good" or "good" and 92.44% said that COFOPRIprovides services
in a timely manner?5However, access to COFOPRI customer service offices can be improved
significantly. As reported during the SA, the Gerenciu de Campo has tried to improve access and
respond to the enormous demand for information by implementing itinerant customer service units
thereby bringing the information closer to the people. However, because of lack of resources and
competing institutional priorities, the concept of itinerant teams was eventually dropped. Under the
proposed Project, the SA recommends that the concept be revisited and incorporated in the delivery
of new formalization services.       Inaddition, customer service offices are uniquely positioned to
collect baseline data on the population's perspective on quality of services and assess knowledge
gaps among the population. COFOPRI developed a system to track user satisfaction at the
customer service offices. The Project will improve the system to make it an effective management
tool to improve service delivery.

Build partnerships with local government, NGOs, and community based organizations.
Partnerships will be developed to support the work of the Provincial and District Municipalities and
COFOPRI where needed.            The Project will tap into community and local resources to raise

93 The politics of local governance had previously affected the work of field promoters and technical
staff. Conflict resolution and training on consensus building at the local and community level will help
work through some of the resistance and power plays encountered at the local level.
94 The Project will have access to gender training materials prepared for other land projects, including the
training program developed by the Panama Land Administration Project (PRONAT) with FA0 and Bank
assistance.
95 Reportedin COFOPRI's organizational publication (Cofopri  ul diu),December2003.


                                                   136

awareness on property rights, and work with local governments to improve community participation
during the formalization process. Since the Project will be implemented in a decentralized policy
context, the Project will periodically scan the environment to identify new opportunities to engage
in dialogue on property rightsissues at the local or community-level.

4.      Citizen Awareness and Community Education: KeepingProperty Rights within the
        FormalEconomy

The sustainability of formalization reforms depends inpart on the extent that formalized households
can realize tangible benefits such as improved access to public services, credit or business
development opportunities. Likewise, keeping formalized properties in the formal market depends
on the willingness and ability of formalized population to record changes in the characteristics of
the formalized properties and register subsequent property transactions such as sales, inheritances,
and mortgages. However, the formalized population may not change their attitudes and practices
unless they are able to perceive and realize clear benefits of conducting property transactions in a
"formal" environment. Therefore, without the support of the community, it will be difficult to
maintain newly formalized properties within the formal economy.

Knowledgegaps constrainthe potentialuse of propertyrightsandfurther disadvantagepoor
households. How do households view their newly formalized property rights? How do families
plan to use their formalized properties? What types of property transactions do they plan to
undertaken in the near or long-term future? What are the most common attitudes and behaviors
about property registration? To gain insights on these issues and develop a deeper understanding of
the constraints to property transaction, as perceived and experienced by the urban poor, the UPRP
carried out several studies.   96  A common theme emerged across all the studies: the formalized
population did not have the sufficient information and knowledge to make future decisions
concerning their property.       The studies revealed incipient or partial understanding about the
significance of a duly registered property title, the purpose and benefits of registering transactions,
how and where to register, the type of transactions that need to be registered, and the potential risks
of non-registration. Some households perceived that property registration protected the interests of
the Government and not theirs.          97   Socioeconomic status had an effect on property-related
knowledge-the      higher the status of study respondents the more knowledge (although still partial)
about property transactions. Differences were observed between men and women's awareness and
knowledge of property rights issues; women, as compared to men, appearedto know less.




96The qualitative analysis by Desco (Study on the Registration Culture, 2001) provided deeper insights onthe
perceptions and experiences o f the urban poor on property issues. Fifteen focus groups were carried out: 7 in
Arequipa and 8 in Lima (72 women and 43 men in total). Inaddition, 31in-depth interviews were conducted
with key informants from the community and the private sector: 17 inArequipa and 14 inLima (9 women and
22 men). See also, ICOM(2002) "Integral Evaluationfor the Communication Campaign to Promote a
Registration Culture: Summary Report and Reportsfor the Cities of Lima, Ayacucho, and Trujillo" [in
Spanish]. The study confirmed the findings of the Baseline Survey (2000) and the Desco study; in addition, it
established baseline conditions for the registration culture campaign and helped develop key communication
"messages" for such campaign.
"Theunificationofpropertyregistries(initiatedundertheUPRP)representedamajorsteptowards
addressing some of the constraints to property registration. Inparticular, the unification of RPI and RPU (to
RP) addressed a major source of confusion among the formalized population: Why two property registries?
Was one for the poor and the other for the rich?Was one for properties with lesser value? Even the financial
sector perceived RPUas a registry for the poor (Desco, 2001). While the unification or property registries
contributed to the promotion of a "culture of registration" significant access issues remain, which will be
addressedby the Project.


                                                       137

In terms of access to credit, studies showed that formalized property owners lack the appropriate
information required to make appropriate decisions regarding credit and, in general, had a limited
understanding of credit options that might be within their reach. Households who wanted to explore
credit options (whether in the near or distant future) were unclear on how to access the information
they needed. Even householdsthat had received credit lacked a full understanding of the conditions
of the loan and their rights and obligations (Desco 2001; Informet 2002). Even more worrisome
was the suggestion that some households had fallen victims to the unfair practices of some lenders.
This underscores the fact that credit may not be enough to break out poverty. Knowledge about
credit management and self-empowerment may be key elements as well. To address information
and knowledge gaps within the formalized population, the UPRP designed and implemented two
communication initiatives that will continue under the proposed Project; however, several critical
changes will be made to improve their effectiveness. An overview of each of the initiatives i s
provided prior to specifyingthe proposed changes.

Registration culture campaign:             Changing attitudes and practices related to property
registration. COFOPRI and SUNARPworked together to implement a communication campaign
to promote a culture of registration among the formalized population. The objective of the
campaign was to inform and educate the formalized population on the benefits of formality and the
importance of registering changes or modifications in property rights. The campaign was carried
out in 14 cities and implemented in two phases: December 2002 to May 2003 and then again in
December 2003 to about May 2004. To implement the campaign, the UPRP trained 535 staff from
SUNARP and COFOPRI, at central and local-level offices.                       The campaign's approach to
communication, underpinned by key design principles, largely explained its relative success: an
explicit behavior change approach to communication; communication messages grounded in
research; a strategy that combined the traditional mass media approach with advocacy and
community-based interventions; and the integrationof a monitoring and evaluation component.

The registration culture campaign represented a completely different way of interacting with the
formalized population, for both COFOPRI and SUNARP. The attitudinal and behavioral change
approach was radically different from the information dissemination approach of COFOPRI and
SUNARP. The information and educational messages of the campaign were designed with an
understanding of the knowledgebarriers that constrained the "formalization" of subsequentproperty
transactions and were structured around the following themes: (a) the benefits and relevance of a
regularized and duly registered property rights; (b) why property changes that occur after
formalization should be registered and the risks associated with non-registration; (c) what
subsequent transactions (segundos actos) should be registered; and (d) where such transactions
should be registered." The campaign comprised three strategic and mutually reinforcing
     ..
components:

         Advocacy to build alliances between COFOPRI-SUNARP and institutional actors at the
          local and national level who could be effective and legitimate "message carriers"99;
         Mass media communication to disseminate educational messages at the national and local
          level usingradio and print media that,targeted socioeconomic levels C, D and E;1oo           and


98This was muchmore complicated than expected for the following reasons: incipient knowledge of RPU;
limitedor non-existent knowledge about the integration of RPUand RPI and the establishment of RP within
SUNARP; limited knowledge of SUNARP; confusion between SUNARP and SUNAT (National
Superintendency of Tax Administration); misunderstandingof COFOPRI's functions (perceived by some as a
registration entity); and general confusion about entities in charge of property valuation, property taxation,
and property registration (in addition to confusion about such concepts).
99For example, congressional representatives, the media (national and local level), local government, and
various interests groups concerned with property rights and related urban development issues.


                                                       138

          Community-based communication to engage the formalized population in their own
         communities and at the inter-personal level.

To gauge the effectiveness of communication methods and to monitor changes in knowledge,
attitudes, and behavior, the design of the campaign included an evaluation element at the outset. An
external firm established baseline conditions for Lima, Arequipa, and Trujillo (June 2002), prior to
start of the campaign. The same firm reapplied the survey in the same cities in August 2003 to
measure changes in the population sample. In addition, the UPRP carried out smaller surveys to
monitor community-based interventions and heldperiodic self-assessment workshops.

Baseline indicators showed promising results that confirmed the validity of a behavior change
approach. More importantly, the results demonstratedthat people's perceptions and attitudes about
property registration could change, which in turn, contributes to sustainability of property reforms.
The comparative survey of 1,315 people in 2003 showed significant improvements in people's
knowledge about property registration and the type of transactions that neededto be registered. In
2002, 35.0% of survey respondents stated that they did not recognize any benefits to property
registration; however, in 2003, this figure dropped to 23.0%. Likewise, in 2002, 50.9% of survey
respondents were unaware of the potential risks of not registering subsequent property transactions
(segundos actos). In 2003, this figure dropped dramatically to 29.1%. Attitudes about property
registration improved as well.

Interventions at the community-level were the most effective aspects of the campaign.                 An
education-entertainment approach (divertir para educar) was applied in 12 registration fairs (ferias
registrales) that were held in Lima Metropolitan (north, southern and eastern cones), Iquitos,
Chimbote, Trujillo, Arequipa, Piura, and Chiclayo. A total of 28,080 newly formalized property
owners and their households participated in the registration fairs, of which nearly 60.0% were
women."'      The fairs incorporated tools such as popular theater, interactive learning games, and
informational kiosks.     '02 In addition, group educational sessions were held at community-based
organizations and in municipal establishments. The sessions used adult-education principles and
participatory facilitation and discussion topics were grounded in the real life experiences of the
participants. Written materials were distributed so that participants could share the information
with their families and wider kinship and social networks. Intotal, 480 educational sessions were
carried out in 13 cities with 19,200 participants. Key alliances were developed with municipalities
during the campaign; however, both COFOPRI and SUNARP's follow-up has been weak.                        To
improve the mass media strategy, the Project will: (a) focus on local and community radio stations;
(b) use programming formats and language that is more accessible to the formalized sector, in
particular the poorest (socioeconomic levels D and E); and (c) conduct further research to identify
ways to use radio and other media more effectively (e.g. segmentation, targeted messages, and
partnerships with ongoing and established radio programs that target the poor).



                                                                                                           ~~




loo Given that radio has proven to be an effective communication mediuminPeru, eight short radio
programshpots were developed which focused on key educational messages.
lo' This surpassed the expected attendance: 14,000total averaging 2000 per fair. InArequipa alone, 5000
people attendedthe fair, followed by Trujillo (3000), Iquitos and ConoNorte Lima (2500), and the remaining
cities at 1500to 1000.
    Thirty-eight popular theater modules were carried out which brought together approximately 7,720
participants.




                                                     139

CREDICRECE:              Helping property owners make informed decisions about credit.lo3
COFOPRI developed a capacity-building pilot program known as CREDICRECE that aimed to
create informed demand for credit services among Project beneficiaries. Expected results were: (a)
increased awareness about the benefits of formalization; (b) increased ability to analyze the benefits
and risks of credit; and (c) increased ability to distinguish the different types of credit options that
are available. CREDICRECE operates through a series of training workshops, which target micro
and small enterprises whose property was formalized by COFOPRI. CREDICRECE teams bring
together experienced facilitators (micro-finance specialists and adult education specialists). In
partnership with community basedorganizations and community leaders, COFOPRI field promoters
identify workshop participants and local venues.'04 The programuses participatory adult-education
techniques and materials (dramatization, real-life case studies, video and educational games) to
buildknowledge about rights andobligations of consumers and debtors, potentialrisks of credit and
strategies to manage these risks including debt repayment practices, types of credit products
available, and strategies to improve creditworthiness. Continuous monitoringhas been built into the
pilot program and as a result, the methodology has been improved and can be easily adapted to the
local context of each geographical area (e.g. literacy rates, household time constraints, and
language).

Duringthe pilot period, CREDICRECE was carried out in two phases benefiting a total of 13,146
Project beneficiaries. The first phase was carried out over a period of 7 months between September
2002 and March 2003 and consisted of 140 workshops in Metropolitan Lima. Nearly 4000 micro
entrepreneurs formalized by COFOPRI participated in the workshops, of which 57.7% were
women. Fifty-five percent (55.0%) of the participants were between the ages of 25-45 and 87.5%
were active in the informal economy.'05 Participants responded favorably to the workshops and
requested follow-up training. Building on the lessons learned from the first phase, a secondphase
of CREDICRECE was launched between September 2003 and June 2004 in Lima, and in the
provincial cities of Arequipa, Trujillo, Chiclayo, Tacna, Ica, Huancayo and Piura. A total of 177
training workshops were carried out in which 9,146 Project beneficiaries participated, of which
63.0% were women. After attending a CREDICRECE workshop, participants reported a 16-12.5%
increase inknowledge levels.106

To develop links with the financial sector, microfinance institutions were invited to participate and
share information on the type of services they offer. This did not work as well as expected
primarily because the manner in which the information was presented was "too technical" and did
not take into account the educational differences of the participants. Nevertheless, at the time of
UPRP closing, six information-sharing agreements had been signed between COFOPRI and
financial entities.'O7



 IO3  This section draws on the findings of two evaluation reports corresponding to two phases of
implementation: September 2002-May 2002 and September 2003-June 2004. Additional insights were gained
through interviews with CREDICRECE facilitators.
 `04While all workshops take place after work hours, the exact times are adjusted to reflect the realities of a
   articular community or region.
    Data collected by CREDICRECE include: sex, age and education levels of participants; type and size of
enterprises; previous credit experience; and changes inlevel of knowledge among participants.
 IO6 Pre and exit workshop surveys asked participants to identify types of formal credit, define repayment
practices, and qualify their willingness to seek credit, among others. Survey data could be disaggregated by
 sex of participant, age, reported education, citykegion, and type of enterprise.
 lo' Information-sharing agreements were signed with the Caja Municipal de Ahorro y Crkdito de Trujillo,
EDPYME PRONEGOCIOS, Banco Wiese de Ica, lnstituto de Desarrollo del Sector Informal de Lambayeque
 (IDESI), and Znstituto de Investigacidn y Promocidn Regional (IPR).             COFOPRI agrees to share the


                                                       140

Improvingthe Delivery of CommunicationandEducationServices

                                            CreditPromotion

Develop a clear institutionalapproachto credit promotion. The success of CREDICRECE was
constrained by the lack of a clear institutional policy on credit promotion. Despite the positive
feedback received by the financial sector, CREDICRECE facilitators report that ensuring the
participation of the financial sector in CREDICRECE was a difficult task.                Outreach can
significantly be improved if COFOPRI adopts an institutional approach to financial sector outreach,
rather than individual strategies for each CREDICRECE training workshop.                  To that end,
COFOPRI will develop under the proposed Project a clear institutional strategy to support bottom-
up initiatives such as CREDICRECE. Specific recommendations include: (a) link CREDICRECE
to complementary initiatives such as the Central de Znformacidn Positiva (see below); and (b)
develop a social map of the potential institutional partners and develop partnerships to scale up
CREDICRECE and ensure sustainable outreach and education for the poor. NGOs that focus on
micro credit, that link up access to credit to productive activities, and that target poor women seem
to be particularly interested in working with COFOPRI.

Formally integrate new roles and responsibilities for COFOPFU's Field Operations Unit.
COFOPRI's Gerencia de Campo (Field Operations Unit) has played a critical role in the
implementation of the credit culture campaign (as well as the registration campaign). However,
post-formalization tasks such as property registration and credit promotion place new demands on
the same resources, and consequently, was perceived as add-on assignment that should be carried
out only if it does not interfere with the formalization process (production of formal property titles).
These new roles and responsibilities will be formally integrated into the objectives and personnel
profiles of COFOPRI.

Establishclear linksbetweenCREDICRECE and CIP. To capitalize on the enormous amount
of data (socio-economic and geographical) produced through systematic titling and registration,
COFOPRI developed an information system known as the Central de Znformacidn Positiva (CIP).
The specific objective of CIP i s to promote access to credit by reducing costs incurred by micro-
finance institutions and commercial banks in determining the creditworthiness of potential
borrowers within the formalized sector. If COFOPRI i s to realize the full potential of CIP, emphasis
should be placed on improving CIP in close consultation with potential clients to ensure that CIP i s
user-focused, demand driven and appropriately priced and delivered. To facilitate the participation
of NGOs who deliver micro-credit services and to improve the participation of the financial sector
in CREDICRECE, mechanisms will be established to facilitate access to CIP by financial
institutions that participate in CREDICRECE.

Develop partnerships to implement CREDICRECE. Credit promotion strategies have to be
developed in partnership with other groups.           The institutional strategy should include clear
mechanisms to engage the resources of community organizations, and develop partnerships with
NGOs working actively with the urban poor.            Together these activities should help scale up
CREDICRECE and eliminate duplication of efforts, build upon existing delivery points (e.g.
literacy and rights awareness community programs) and capitalize on existing social sector skills to
expedite the demand side development of the microfinance sector. The Project will develop a
methodology to transfer the technology of CREDICRECE to Provincial Municipalities,


CREDICRECE database with these entities, and in turn, they agree to provide COFOPRI with information on
CREDICRECE participantswho have sought informationand/or received credit.


                                                  141

microfinance institutions and other local groups. Tools such as training of trainers should be an
integral element of the technology transfer methodologies. A referral system needs to be developed
for households and property owners who "graduate" from CREDICRECE but require additional
capacity building.

Adapt methods and techniques to meet diverse needs of formalized entrepreneurs. Methods
and techniques will be further adapted to meet the needs of the formalized sector, both in terms of
language and content. For example, topics that were not considered at the outset have been
incorporated in subsequent workshops such as basic organizational skills, conflict resolution within
the household, and citizenship rights and issues. Multicultural, gender and diversity perspectives
were also gradually introduced into CREDICRECE. However, such an approach needs to be
established as an organizational policy and managedas an integral design element rather than left to
the discretion of adult educators and facilitators. It i s clear that, in terms of numbers, both women
and men have participated in CREDICRECE; however, we have less information on how the
content of the workshops meet the diverse needs of the population. To ensure equitable impact and
to strengthen CREDICRECE's pro-poor approach, further and systematic emphasis will be placed
on understanding the diverse needs and gender-differentiated constraints of the target population.
This is particularly relevant given the extensive work that has been done in Peru documenting the
exclusionary and pervasive impact of gender, ethnicity, and geographic origin (among other social
variables) on access to labor and credit markets, educational opportunities, productive social
networks, and other types of economic and social opportunities.


Property Registration


Develop clear institutional policies to support the implementation of a registry culture
program. Two key institutional lessons emerged from the implementation of the registry culture
campaign. First, since external advocacy was not an institutional priority, advocacy strategies were
implemented in a limited manner. To strengthen SUNARP's external advocacy capacity, the Project
must first build internal consensus on the objectives of the registry culture campaigns. Second,
although internal champions had been identified, effective implementation of the registry campaign
was constrained by clear institutional policies. To address these issues, the Project will help: (a)
integrate the objectives of registration culture into SUNARP's institutional mandate; (b) develop
clear institutional policies and incentives that promote the participation of registry officials; and (c)
strengthen the capacity of the Ofcina de Imagen Institucional y Relaciones Pliblicas and the
Escuela de Capacitacidn Registral so that they participate effectively in the promotion of a
registration culture. In addition, for SUNARP to participate effectively in the registry culture
program, it must substantially improve its capacity to communicate effectively with the target
population. "Capacity" entails much more than technical expertise in property registration issues
and includes understanding the specific barriers that poor households face, the ability to
communicate effectively using accessible language, and service delivery attitudes that treat poor
households with respect and dignity.

Develop a comprehensive strategic outreach strategy. Additional effort will be placed to reach
poorer segments of the population. To that end, strategies will be developed to engage the
participation of community and neighborhood leaders. The support of community groups and
 social networks is critical becauseit enables the most vulnerable to remain in a trusted environment.
Similarly, to ensure that the formalized sector has access to registration information in a sustainable
manner, partnerships will be established with professional associations (notaries and lawyers), local
government, NGOs, and community based organizations such as comedores populares and



                                                   142

educational centers among others. Consensus building strategies need to be put inplace to deal with
potential conflicts. For example, in some places, it was difficult to conduct theferius registrules
because the local mayor did not have the support of its community and/or wanted to use theferiu
registrul as a political tool.

Target women as potential allies in changing behaviors at the householdand community level.
Differentiated methods will be developed to reach out to women property owners, whether
individual or joint owners. Attention will be placed on identifying those information channels that
are more effective in reaching women. This i s particularly important since significant gender
differences were observed during the implementationof the registry campaign. While women tend
to be less informed than men, they are also the ones that show the most significant changes in
knowledge and attitudes. This suggests that women, as group, may be critical allies in changing
behaviors at the household and community level.

Develop content to meet the diverse needs of the population. Topics that will be developed
further during the registration campaigns include the significance of joint ownership; subdivision
and expansion of properties; and procedures and costs involved in the registration of property
transactions. The content of the messages and the way they are delivered, however, should be based
on the different needs of the population. For example, there are clear differences in awareness
levels between consolidated and non-consolidated settlements and between older or younger
segments of the population.

Provide targeted technical assistance to decentralized registry offices. Community leaders and
municipalities have made several requests to decentralized registry offices to continue the
educational sessions andferius registrules. Infact, after the completion of the UPRP, the Arequipa
registry office (zona registral) carried out four smaller scale registry fairs (ferius registrules) and
has programmed weekly educational talks with the population. The zona registrul of Iquitos has
also carried out its own educational sessions with its own resources.The training materials provided
by the UPRP have been adapted to meet local needs and to reflect local customs. Clearly,
decentralized registry offices recognize the value and the potential impacts of educational strategies.

To respond to this demand, specific methodologies and tools will be developed to help
decentralized registry offices integrate aspects of the campaign into their regular work practices.
To ensure that resources are channeled appropriately, technical assistanceto zonas registrules must
be demand-driven.         Performance agreements will be established where participating zonas
 registrules make clear contributions to the program (in terms of staff time and organizational
resources). To promote institutional learning and build ownership, bi-yearly seminars will be
implementedto bringtogether the participatingzonas registrules.

 5.       Access to Registry Services

 Registration procedures constrain equitable access to registry services. Additional procedures
 have been incorporated into property registration requirements that have ledto a decline inproperty
 registrations among the formalized sector. In 1999, 58,000 property transactions had been recorded
 in RPU(now RP). Between 1999 and 2000, the number of property registrations grew by 64.0%;
 between 2000 and 2001, by 26%. However, between 2001 and 2002, the increase was less than
 1.0%.'08 This coincided with recent changes in the normative framework that narrowed the scope
 for the use of simplified registry forms and reintroduced mandatory notary certification. These
 measures significantly increased transactions costs for users and clearly affected access to registry


 I O 8ReportedinComparativeBaseLine Study, FinalReport,ESAN-IMASEN,2004.


                                                 143

services by the poor. Similarly, registration procedures have reintroduced tax payment controls. In
sum, transactions costs (perceived or real) associated with the registration of property transactions
continue to be a major obstacle for the sustainability of formalization reforms.

Institutional cultural barriers constrain the delivery of pro-poor registrationservices. During
the pilot implementation of the Registry Culture Campaign, important cultural differences were
detected between the former RPUand RPI. There is a lack of awareness and misunderstanding on
the property formalization process financed under the UPRP, in which RPU was an integral player.
For example, while RPI staff recognized that the simplified administrative mechanisms developed
by RPU were effective; for the most part, however, they believed that these mechanisms lacked
legal security. Similarly, they believed that RPUlacked the appropriate quality controls necessary
to protect property rights. Finally, in general, RPI staff appeared to be skeptical of the proactive
stance taken by RPU, as if proactively reaching out to registry users influenced the neutral role of a
registration officer. These underlying perceptions may affect the ability of RP and SUNARP in
general to effectively and proactively identify and respond to the specific needs of poor users.
Ultimately, such an institutional culture, if not transformed, may undermine the effectiveness of
community education programs.

Promoting the Delivery of Pro-Poor Registry Services

Promotion of a registration culture will be closely linked to improvements in the delivery of
registration services. Education on formal property rights and the importance of registering
property transactions i s necessary but not sufficient. Communication strategies that promote the
registration of property transactions can only be effective if there are corresponding improvements
in the quality and delivery of registration services.     Studies will be carried out to determine the
service needs of the formalized sector; the impact of mandatory notary certification and tax
payment.on property registration; and the current fee structure taking into account the sustainability
of property rights reforms, the socio-economic profiles of users, and general financial sustainability
issues. The Project will also support the design and implementation of customer service strategies
andmechanismsthat respondto the needs the formalized sector.

Performance monitoring tools as a catalyst for cultural change. Performance monitoring tools
can improve the efficiency of registration services, however, more importantly; they can also help
create incentives for cultural change. To that end, the Project will build SUNARP's capacity to
implement a monitoring system similar to the one put in place under the UPRP. In addition to
tracking time and costs of the registration of first title and subsequent transactions, RP should also
develop indicators to monitor client satisfaction (disaggregated by client group). More importantly,
the monitoring system will integrate indicators to monitor attitudinal and behavior changes in
potential clients resultingfrom the registrationculture programs. Gender disaggregated data must be
collected and analyzed to determine how men and women use the registration system and whether
they face different access constraints.   The latter will have to be ascertained through client needs
assessmentsimplemented as part of, or inaddition to, the registrationculture program.

Training programs as a tool to promote changesinthe organizationalculture. The Project will
work with RP's internal trainingkapacity-building school to develop training programs that focus
on the role of property registration in a market economy, the compatibility of administrative
simplification and legal security, and key social issues pertaining to property registration.
Methodologies will integrate theoretical approaches as well as hands-on practical in-service
training. SUNARP will encourage the participation of registrars in registry culture programs and
field-level cadastre work (in collaboration with COFOPRI) will be viewed as critical educational
opportunities to promote a proactive, user-centered registry culture.



                                                  144

6.        Socioeconomic Monitoring and Evaluation

The Project will finance a Socioeconomic Monitoring subcomponent to: (a) measure the advances
in project implementation, including socioeconomic impact; and (b) identify the obstacles that limit
the use of property rights in the market, and to develop proposals to address these obstacles. This
subcomponent i s critical because it emphasizes the integral vision of formalization, where land
titling i s a policy measure that contributes to the larger goal of social and economic integration of
the poor.     To contribute more effectively to Project effectiveness, the following actions will be
undertaken.

Develop a strategic and proactive communication strategy to disseminate the findings of the
socioeconomic studies. The Project will develop 8 communication strategy that ensures that
socioeconomic findings are disseminated, discussed and debated and ultimately, that they contribute
to the policy making process. Moreover, the strategy should help mobilize public support for
property rights reforms. The strategy will go beyond simply disseminating information, but rather,
will focus on building understanding on the obstacles that limit the use of property rights in the
market and related social and economic consequences. Without such a strategy, the full benefits of
these efforts may not be realized.

Conduct further research to determine to what extent social factors affect the market use of
property rights. Beneficiary assessmentsundertaken under the UPRPdemonstrated that the ability
of households to benefit from property formalization can be influenced by social factors such as:
education; the degree of settlement and housing consolidation; the household structure (joint vs.
individual headship and female headship); family stability; and access to family and social
networks, among others. However, to get a better sense of the impact of these social factors on the
use of property rights, further research is required, which in turn, would help better target
educational services and other complementary programs.

Develop an understandingof gender inequalities inproperty rights. Further work needs to take
place to identify, address, and reduce gender disparities in property rights. Two broad categories of
issues will be explored: (a) gender differences in the market use of property rights (differentiated
access to registry services, to credit, to mortgage-backed loans and differences in property values);
and (b) the effect of changes in household structure (abandonment, separation, divorce and
widowhood) on the market use ofjoint titles.

Analyze contingencies to identify potential solutions. According to one informant, contingencies
were as high as 30.0% of total properties formalized. Contingencies are cases in which property
titles cannot be issued because of a particular legal impediment. For example, eligible landholders
may not be able to complete the formalization process because they do not have the necessary
identification documents.      Other contingencies were more complex issues such as informal
settlements on private property or on geographical areas that were considered high-risk.In some of
these cases, civil works were needed to lift the risk impediment."'           However, the respective
communities may not be able to contract out the civil works, but conceivably, partnerships with
local governments and NGOs could be developed to overcome such barriers. Some contingencies
may require additional reforms to the property formalization framework; however, reform proposals
mustbe grounded in an understanding of the problem, the characteristics of the population affected,
and an assessment of potential solutions.



    Interview with Gerencia de Titulacidn, September 2004


                                                   145

Explore the viability of other promotion and education programs. Promotion and educational
programs may not be limited to registration and credit promotion. Interviews with front line service
providers pointed to other needs that will be explored further, many of which may be addressed
through partnerships with other stakeholders: (a) access to the national identification document. the
lack of which excludes some families from access to property formalization; (b) capacity of the
community to preserve and manage culturally-valuable sites; and (c) capacity of community to
manage environmental concerns in urban spaces. This preliminary set of potential "new services"
will be explored iointly with district and provincial municipal authorities to determine how best
COFOPRIcan contribute as a technical-advisory agency.

Action-research methods will be supported to better understand how informal settlements access
and validate information (e.g. social and family networks, the role of gatekeepers) and how
knowledge i s developed. Specific attention will be placed on the different ways that men and
women access information, how socio-cultural and economic factors facilitate or constrain access,
and the different needs and local customs of the population. To implement the subcomponent, the
Project will develop alliances with local NGOs specialized in social communication and adult
literacy, among others. In addition, the Project will engage the participation of community and
neighborhood leaders (men and women). The support of community groups and social networks i s
critical because it enables the most vulnerable to remain in a trusted environment.

The Project will also develop an evaluation strategy (including the use of participatory
methodologies) that periodically monitors the effectiveness of the communication approach. The
evaluation strategy will include indicators that capture the views of service providers, grassroots
and community organizations, and community leaders (men and women).

Specific methodologies and tools will be developed to help decentralized registry offices integrate
aspects of the registry culture campaign into their regular work practices. To promote institutional
learning and build ownership, bi-yearly seminars will be implemented to bring together the
participating zonas registrules.    Similarly, to ensure that the formalized sector has access to
registration information in a sustainable manner, partnerships will be established with professional
associations (notaries and lawyers), local government, NGOs, and community based organizations
such as comedorespopulares and educational centers.

Mechanisms to engage the resources of community organizations and develop partnerships with
NGOs working actively with the urban poor will be developed.               These activities will help
reduce/eliminate duplication of efforts, build upon existing delivery points (e.g. literacy and rights
awareness community programs) and capitalize on existing social sector skills to expedite the
demand side development of the microfinance sector. A referral system will be developed for
households and property owners who "graduate" from the credit program but require additional
capacity building.




                                                  146

                                 Annex 17: CommunicationsAssessment

               PERUREAL PROPERTYRIGHTS CONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

I.COFOPRI'sCommunicationChallenges`lo:

The proposed project main communication challenges will be: 1) Political: Leveraging the
sustainability of COFOPRI; 2) Institutional: Building COFOPRI's institutional capacity for
communication activities; and 3) Implementation: Improving the effectiveness and coverage of
communications activities.

1)PoliticalChallenges:

0    Weak Framework:The general public is not well informed about the mission and vision of
     COFOPRI. To the extent that COFOPRI's achievements are disseminated only inpolicy-
     making circles, these have been appropriated and politicized.

0 LackofPublic InformationCapacity: COFOPRI's low profile makes it difficult for the
     institution to gain wider support among the public.

0 LimitedCollaboratioflartnerships: The lack of coordinationwith other GoPinstitutions
     with conflicting interests has made difficult for COFOPRIto develop collaborative
     relationships, even as the decentralization process makesknowledge transfer essential to
     COFOPRI's continuing success.

2) InstitutionalChallenges:

     Limited Definition of Communication Activities: Despite the acknowledged importance of
     communication activities for both the promotion of registration and access to credit, the UPRP
     did not assign enough priority and resources to communication activities. In addition to
     planning and implementation issues, budgets for communications activities seem to have been
     insufficient.

     Missed Linkages in Messages and Framing of Issues                    - Limited Contextualization:
     According to a UPRP social assessment report, only limited linkages were made and/or
     presented between the formalization process and the larger goal of poverty reduction and
     community empowerment. Since beneficiaries could not fully recognize the connection
     between project goals and larger social values, they might not have been motivated to improve
     knowledge, and change attitudes or behaviors.

     LimitedInstitutionalAttention to Monitoringand EvaluationCommunication Activities:
     The monitoring and evaluation effort faced serious limitations due to budgetary constraints and


`lo This assessment i s based on the findings and recommendationsof a January-February 2005 mission that
finished with the delivery of three reports on the subject: 1."Communications Diagnostic - PeruReal
PropertyRights Consolidation Project", World Bank, February 2005. 2. "A Case Study: Use of
communication campaigns inthe Urban Property Rights Project inPeru", World Bank, February 2005.3.
"The ProposedReal Property Rights Consolidation Project in Peru: Communications Implications of a Case
Study", World Bank, March 2005.


                                                       147

    isolation from other components of the UPRP. The evaluation of communication activities
    could have also benefited from other evaluation activities within the same project (e.g.
    economic outcomes etc.) by allowing the inputs of different specialists (economists and
    financial specialists).

0 Lack of InstitutionalInformationFailedto Increase Transparency and Accountability:
    Beneficiaries were not fully informed about the institutionaVproject goals and achievements,
    neither about some of the changes of project targets and outcomes during implementation.
    Such institutional messages were seen as critical only for high-level stakeholders, (policy-
    makers, financial institutions) while it would have also been desirable that this information
    were provided to citizensheneficiaries.

3) Implementation challenges:

0 Missing Relevant Information: UPRP communication activities had serious shortcomings in
    terms of scope and concept. Provision of more detailed information was required to deepen
    beneficiaries' knowledge and direct themtowards appropriate actions and beliefs.

0 Lack of Recognition of the Role of Promoters and Multiplier Effects: There was limited
     coordination between the activities of field promoters, the communication unit, and village
     workers; there was no well-established conceptual or institutional communication framework
     sharedby these unitsand groups.

0 Understanding Different Types of Beneficiaries and Assuring Inclusion: It is always a
     challenge for communication activities to fill knowledge gaps among sub-groups of the target
     group because of different absorption capacities. As a result, certain groups (such as women
     and indigenous groups) may be at a disadvantage in terms of receiving communications
     concerning social programs and are consequently less likely to benefit from these.

0 BeyondIndividuals        --Community Changes: The UPRP communications target was limited
     to individuals. However, communication activities have to focus on the transformation of
     communities and extension of the sharedbenefits of formalization and access to credit to avoid
     conflicts and exclusion, as well as the generation of a critical mass of beneficiary stakeholders
     to sustainthe knowledge and attitude changeseffected.

0 Channel Selection and Effectiveness          -  Gaining Wider Coverage: Irrespective of the
     effectiveness of inter-personal communication channels, these channels are very limited in
     coverage compared with multi-media channel usage.

11. Conclusionsandrecommendations:

2.1. Communicationsto obtainpublic support:

COFOPRI's communication office should improve its media relations, by cultivating key media
outlets and persons. Additionally, periodic conferences/seminars with key specialists and potential
opinion leaders in Peru on formalization issues may serve to showcase achievements and create
influential multipliers of supportive opinions. Appropriate publications might serve to publicize
COFOPRI's tasks and achievements to a wider audience.

2.2. InstitutionalCapacity-buildingfor CommunicationActivities:



                                                148

            Up-front planning of communication activities: Communication activities need to be
            adequately defined and integrated within project goals and outcomes. Sufficient funds
            must be made available, including baseline and evaluation research.

            Integratedmonitoringand evaluation beyondcommunications activities: Evaluation of
            communication activities should be conducted within an integrated framework across
            project sub-components to appropriately measure the outcomes of communication
            inputs. Key indicators should be expanded to include indicators reflecting expected
            outcomes like behavioraYattitudina1changes, empowerment h d awareness.

            Institutional Messages for Accountability: The selected messages need to emphasize
            the larger significance of the property rights reforms and higher-level policy goals
            (securing property rights as a means of poverty reduction and access to economic
            opportunities). They should make clear to beneficiary-participants their rights and      '


            duties, and the opportunities generated by the changes in the legal and institutional
            framework that depend of their personal decisions. This requires that beneficiaries be
            fully informed about the institutionallproject goals and achievements as well as any
            change madealong the road.

            Technical Assistance to Municipalities: COFOPRI will have to provide technical
            assistance to municipally organized communication campaigns to reach remote
            populations and encourage effective behavioral changes. Support in this area i s likely
            to prove essential given that the `residual' groups to be formalized by such
            municipalities are more likely to be poor and isolated interms of access to information.
             Obviously, COFOPRI's strong internal capabilities in this area are a pre-requisite of
             effective provision of technical assistance.

2.3. Specific Communication Activities:

     2.3.1.  Empowerment and Behavioral Changes: Communication strategies should aim at
             greater empowerment of communities, as well as to increase and sustain the impact of
             Project-supported reforms, without leavingdisadvantaged groups behind.

     2.3.2.  Sustainable communication initiatives: Communication campaigns will be required for
             both registration and credit promotion in the geographic areas already targeted in the
             first phase and in the new project areas. It is essential to provide information on the
             linkage between registration and access to credit, to allow beneficiaries to move from
             simply formalizing property rights to gaining access to formal credit and associated
             economic opportunities.

     2.3.3.  Framing messages contextualized within the broader socio-cultural beneficiary
             environment: Communication activities need to take into account the socio-cultural
             context of beneficiaries (both as individuals and communities) in order to enhance the
             potential for participation and the sustainability of the desired changes.

     2.3.4.  Making efficient use of existing resources as communication channels and potential
             multipliers: Effective communication activities require involving promoters and village
             workers through appropriate training, as well as seeking multiplier effects from
             satisfied beneficiaries and community leaders.

     2.3.5.  Understanding Different Types of Beneficiaries and Assuring Inclusion of



                                                  149

       Disadvantaged Group: Communication activities must attempt to minimize knowledge
       gaps to avoid excluding groups of potential beneficiaries (gender and linguistic
       minorities). Thus, substantially higher unit costs for appropriate communication
       activities should be expected, as a result of having to provide bilingual materials, and
       tailoring the content of communications to the needs and beliefs of recipients. The
       integrationof existingcommunity-based organizations i s also highly recommended.

2.3.6. Channel Selection for Wider Coverage: Interpersonal approaches might be
       supplemented with appropriate mass media channels used beyond immediate
       beneficiary targets.




                                           150

                           Annex 18: The UrbanPropertyRightsProject
             PERU: REAL PROPERTYRIGHTSCONSOLIDATIONPROJECT

1.       Background.

The challenges of informalitv. Informality in Peru was the result of inadequate institutions and
organizational arrangements in the areas of property rights and municipal development that
generated constraints inthe supply of affordable shelter options. Urban migration increased after the
1968 Agrarian Reform and radically altered the structure of major cities, turning Peru into a
predominantly urban country. The formal rules were not designed to confront effectively the new
realities. The system that was supposed to provide recognition of property rights was accessible
only by a select minority. That system had complex and costly procedures to establish ownership
that poor land occupants could not afford. National and local government agencies were not
effective in issuing titles and the courts were not able to resolve conflicts, or validate titles. The
poor responded by establishing informal human settlements. 1997 estimates found more than 3
million informal urban properties, representing "dormant" assets whose real value in terms of
investment potential and access to credit was not beingrealized.

The excessive emphasis on legal security posed barriers to access to property rights. No property
title could be recorded in RPIunless stringent requirements were met; such requirements were not
designed to deal with massive invasions but only with individual transactions involving clear
property titles (sales, grants, exchanges, inheritance, expropriation). These systems were not
appropriate to deal with the informal origin of most property rights inPeru. Title regularization was
conceived as an isolated, exceptional case and ignored the socio-economic reality in Peru that had
experienced radical changes in land tenure patterns in rural and urban areas and demand for land
and housing due to demographic variables, industrialization, improved transportation and
communications, and expectations of higher living standards determined massive migrations into
the cities.

GoP Approach. The process of developing an effective property formalization system started inthe
1980's with a series of studies carried out by a private think tank, Instituto Libertad y Democracia
(ILD). In 1988, a pilot project aimed at eliminating bottlenecks in the property titling process,
begun with the establishment of RPU's predecessor."' During the 1990's, the Bank maintained a
policy dialogue with the GoP and agreedto support a formalization plan comprising: (i)    a new legal,
regulatory and institutional framework that facilitated recognition of informal ownership; (ii)  a pro-
active field campaign approach that involved the communities in the formalization process; (iii)    an
inexpensive information system based on a geo-referenced cadastre and simplifiedprocedures; and
(iv) effective autonomous agencies.

In 1996, Ley de Promocidn del Acceso a la Propiedad Formal (Decree Law No. 803) was passed
and launched the PNF to be implementedby COFOPRI. COFOPRI took over the functions of about
 14 separate central and local entities that previously intervened in the titling process. Article 2 of
Decree 803 created a new institutional mechanism allowing immovable property belonging to poor
informal sectors to become a liquid asset with the potential to participate in market transactions.
COFOPRI became solely responsible for issuing titles in informal settlements, while RPU would
register the titles issued by COFOPRI. GoP allocated the highest priority to property formalization,



`I1 Implementation CompletionReportUrbanPropertyRightsProject,December 27, 2004, p.3.


                                                  151

as a tool for social and economic development, within a market incentives framework (i.e.
properties should be mobilizedby the new owners at fair market value after formalization).

The Bank-financed UPRP was designed to support the PNF. The objective of the UPRP was to
establish a system that provided real property rights in selected poor settlements in large urban
areas. The UPRP expected that the formalization process would produce substantial economic and
social benefits. The main benefit should be a more efficient market use of the property due to a
greater security of property rights. This efficient market use would translate into higher property
prices, more frequent transactions and increased ability of the urban poor to access credit for further
economic and social development. To achieve these objectives, UPRP activities were structured
around the following components: a) institutional reforms; b) organizational strengthening; and c)
property formalization. The population targeted by the UPRP were classified in the 1993 Census as
the poorest urban districts based on indicators of basic needs that reflected high deficiencies in
terms of education, health, living conditions, adequate employment and basic services.

2.       ProjectComponents.

         a. Institutional reforms

Legal and Regulatory Reforms. The property formalization process not only required a series of
legal and regulatory reforms, but also the establishment and operation of modern State agencies,
with appropriate procedures and practices. The purpose of such institutional reforms was to design
cost-effective systems for property formalization, so as to allow "informal properties" and "informal
owners" an easy access to property registration, as well as to the reliable information for subsequent
transactions.

The UPRP ledthe change process for modernizing the institutional framework for property rights in
Peru through: (a) creation of Provincial Formalization Commissions to decentralize formalization
activities at the local level; and (b) unification of the parallel real property registry systems into a
single RP under SUNARP. Several reforms were also advanced by the UPRP to streamline the
formalization processes: (a) integration of survey data defining the spatial dimensions of a parcel
with legal data defining the nature and basis of land rights; (b) standardization of data management;
(c) introduction of a single parcel identifier; and (d) establishment of limitations to retrospective
searches to prove title. Quality control mechanisms were also introduced to ensure the quality of
registry information.

Conflict resolution mechanisms. To avoid that legal actions would be used as a mechanism to delay
administrative proceedings, various levels of conflict resolution were established under the UPRP:
(a) A conciliation system, applicable to informal settlements established on private property, aimed
at reaching an agreement between the informal possessorsand the private owner, for a legal transfer
of property rights to take place, and a valid title to be issued. Such settlement was enforceable as a
judicial or arbitral award; (b) An administrative review system. The Tribunal Administrativo de la
Propiedad was established comprising prominent external legal experts, as an independent instance
for conflict resolution through the final administrative review of the decisions issued by COFOPRI,
so as to respect the two-instance principle and guarantee due process. The decisions of RPU could
also be challenged before a separate unit (Tribunal Registral) and were similarly subject to judicial
review.

         b. Organizational Strengthening




                                                   152

Inter-institutional Coordination mechanisms. The UPRP financed: (a) the involvement of RPU in
the registry unification process, so as to maintain efficiency gains (e.g. in terms of shared physical
infrastructure and allocation of human resources); and (b) a re-engineering of internal processes
within COFOPRI. COFOPRI developed new strategies to strengthen the capacity of municipalities
in terms of the sustainability of geo-referenced cadastres, through the delivery of the graphic
cadastral base developed by COFOPRI in the areas where the PNF had taken place and the training
of the municipal staff in charge of maintaining that base up-to-date. COFOPRI begun coordination
efforts with the IADB-financed PETT and strengthened its relationship with other public sector
entities by providing formalization services through inter-institutional agreements,

Supreme Decree 005-2000 JUS created Provincial Formalization Commissions to involve local
authorities, prioritize areas of operation and coordinate formalization activities. Under this model
COFOPRI retained normative and supervisory functions in connection with the technical processes
of formalization at the national level, while the Provincial Commission headed by the local Mayor
defined specific priorities. To avoid the use of titling as instrument of political propaganda, title
delivery in public ceremonies was forbidden. COFOPRI should have also transferred the cadastral
base to the Municipalities, but this process was delayed because of the Municipalities' lack of
institutional capacity. By devolving titling functions to municipal governments in 2000, the UPRP
was ahead of the curve on decentralization and helped encourage forward movement inthat area.

RPU: A modern agency accessible by the poor. The main features of the RPU model were
simplifiedprocesses, integrated cadastre-registry services, and capacity to process massive volumes
of information and provide such information at a low cost. RPUwas designed as an institution that
would balance effective legal security with reduced transaction costs, as opposed to RPIthat in its
eagerness to protect legal security generatedunaffordable costs for the majority of the population.
One of the key innovations introducedby RPUwas the elimination of all requirements that do not
constitute evidence of property rights (i.e. taxes or social security contributions).

In RPIrecordable titles were only public deeds (escrituras pziblicas), whose drafting required the
involvement o f (a) a lawyer that prepares a private document (minutu) based on a legal analysis of
the rights involved; and (b) a notary public that reviews the lawyer's legal analysis, and (if
acceptable) literally transcribes the minuta into special books authorized by the notaries association
(Colegio de Notarios). By contrast, RPU accepted simple forms as recordable titles; the forms
contained only the standard information required to determine property rights: identification of the
real property, the parties to the contract and the rights that are the subject matter of the transaction.
For the preparation of the forms only a lawyer was required, and he/she became fully responsible
for the legality of the transaction. The result was a substantial reduction in the transaction costs for
the users and also for the registry, becausethe review procedures were facilitatedby the forms (risk
of interpretation and transcription errors were substantially reduced).' l2

The RPU was the first property registry in Peru that integrated a cadastre, within registration
procedures. One of the major problems of RPI was a deficient property identification system,
mainly based on literal descriptions about location, size and borders, referred to outdated
topographic information. RPU developed a real property identification system supported by a
geographic base on which the legal information contained in the recordable title i s compared with
property maps. Although the geographic base was originally produced by COFOPRI during the



   Unfortunately, this system has been substantially modified by a ruling of the Tribunal Constitucional of
2001, and the RP Law that makes mandatory notary certification of forms for the registration of properties
whose value is lower than US$lO,OOO.


                                                    153

execution of the UPRP, RPU developed the expertise and organizational capacity required to
administer and maintain the legal cadastre so produced.

RPI -RPU unification. A study financed by the UPRP identified a number of issuesinthe Peruvian
registration system associated to the parallel existence of two registries (RPU and RPI)'13: (a)
inefficient resource allocation, users' confusion, and inability to create a critical mass of coherent
data for public dissemination; (b) inaccuracy of the registry records due to the lack of a cadastral-
based system in RPI which increases the risks of overlapping rights and duplicate records; (c) a
non-proactive service pattern in RPIthat contrasted with the low-cost, user friendly design of RPU;
and (d) high transaction costs due to different registration requirements and inefficient operations in
parallel organizations.

The study recommended the integration of RPI and RPU to establish a single registry of real
property in Peru. This integration would address directly the issues common to both organizations
that would be hard to tackle if managed independently: (a) to develop a cadastral base for RPI
records; (b) to reduce overall operational costs by sharing fixed administrative costs, eliminating
duplicate activities, and generating economies of scale through increased productivity; and (c) to
promote registry culture by eliminating the confusing dual system. The principles of simplification,
deregulation and cost-effectiveness that characterized the operation of RPUhad spill over effects in
the operations of RPI that started to accept standardized forms for building formalization and
transactions under the MiVivienda and TechoPropio programs.

         c. Property formalization

COFOPRI: A modern agency working with the poor. The UPRP covered various informal urban
settlements including Human Settlements (Asentarnientos Humanos), Popular Urbanizations
(Urbanizaciones Populares) and Housing Cooperatives (Cooperativas de Vivienda). COFOPRI
implementeda pro-active formalization model in selected geographic areas based on the generation
of economies of scale that allowed the average cost of each title issued to be reduced substantially.
The impact of the UPRPi s evident inthe final figures of the performance indicators selectedduring
Project design (see Table 1).

                                                    Table 1
                                        Achievements of the UPRP

   Performance Indicator                                                    SAR       As of June 2004

   Total number of properties formalized                                    959,690   1,195,321

   Total number of titles issued and registered                             805,527   920,096

   Average duration of title registration not more than                     50        49 days

   Average duration of mortgage registration not more than                  10        5.77 days

   Average duration of the registration of subsequenttransactions not       10        5.73 days
   more than
   Share of males and females as individual owners (1) (2)                            Females: 66.79%
                                                                            N/A       Males: 33.21%




 `I3"Estrategia para la sostenibilidad de largo plazo del Sistema de Registro Predial Urbano" (Strategy for a
 long-term sustainability of the Urban Property Registry System), Arthur Andersen, Lima, November 2000.


                                                      154

   Number of subsequent transactionsregistered other than mortgages               554,892
   (sales, subdivisions, exchanges, inheritances, etc.) (2)              N/A
   Number of mortgagesregistered (2)                                     N/A      72,926

   COFOPRI's cost per title issued                                       US$35    US$64.00

   RPU's cost per COFOPRI-issuedtitle registered                         US$15    US$32.73




The UPRP originally covered the major urban areas of 8 Departments (Lima, Chiclayo, Chimbote,
Piura, Trujillo, Arequipa, Huaraz e Iquitos); on June 2001, it was expanded to 6 more (Ayacucho,
Ica, Junin, Moquegua, Tacna and Ucayali) [see Table 21. As COFOPRI entered more complex
geographic areas, the formalization framework was revised to ensure that economies of scale were
retained. While some aspects of the original processes were streamlined or outsourced, some were
gradually rein~ented."~Such reengineering also required modifications inthe regulatory framework
and to that end COFOPRI developed new internal instructives. COFOPRI also analyzed and
evaluated traditional processes, redesigned such processes to meet future needs, assessed the
organizational structure and functions of COFOPRI in connection with the redesigned processes,
and identified measures to improve organizational effectiveness. As a result processes 0 and 1were
merged into a single process 1. This exercise included the procedures applicable to informal
possessions originating from invasions to private land, properties in high-risk areas, or sites of
archeological ~ignificance."~



Table 2

                     GeographicalDistributionofFormalizationAchievements
                                FormalizedPropertiesandTitlesIssued




 l4"Estrategia de Largo Plazo de COFOPRl" (COFOPRI's Long-term Strategy), Apoyo Consultoria,March
2002.
'15Eventhough the deadline for formalizationof invasions was changedfrom March 1996to December 2001,
in practice COFOPRIdid not formalized any invasions occurred after 1996because the provisions on statute
of limitationsrequire a1least ten years of uninterruptedand undisputedpossession.


                                                       155

                                                         Cumul; ve Total
                         Departament             Properties            Titles
                   Total Lima                           782 449              631 847
                   Caiiete                               17 844               10 307
                   Huacho                                12996                 4 850
                   Lima Con0 Este                       218 993              176417
                   Lima Cono Sur                        242 686              207 000
                   LimaCono Norte                       289 930              202 566
                   Total Provinces                    1041638                732 587
                    Ancash                               98 716               77 855
                    Arequipa                            201 959              149 352
                    Ayacucho                             69 349               35 160
                    Ica                                  81 535               57 716
                    Junin                                35 450               20 841
                    L a Libertad                        147 772              102548
                    Lambayeque                          121471                84 550
                    Loreto                               46 906               39 703
                    Moquegua                             33 368               25 499
                    Pasco                                 15 632               7 454
                    Piura                               112 902               74 318
                   Tacna                                 53 003               39 769
                    Ucayali                               23 575              17 822
                    NationalTotal                     1824087                1364434
                               l/Accumulatel )etweenApril 1996a  December 2003
                              Source: COFOPRI




COFOPRI field work followed an innovative approach: recognizing the complex nature of the
formalization process, COFOPRI created inter-disciplinary teams comprising social workers,
lawyers, engineers and architects that integrated a common vision for regular interaction with UPRP
beneficiaries. The development of adequate technical support tools ensured the success of this
approach: (a) a parcel-based real property identification system, based on the official mapping
system of IGN that contains aerial-photographic information. Through photogrammetric restitution
techniques and terrestrial control activities, these maps were adapted to the scale needed for
formalization inurbanareas; and (b) an automatic information processing system through which the
databases used for the massive formalization processes were generated. These databases were also
integrated through an internal communication network between COFOPRI's headquarters and local
offices that allowed increased efficiency levels.

3.        UPRPSocio-economic impact.

          a.     Economic impact

The main results expected from the UPRP were greater investments in housing, increased property
value (both by individual decisions to invest in the property and by improved access to public
utilities), enhanced formal real estate market (by property registration), easier access the formal
financial system (through a mortgage guarantee) and social changes in families and communities
(by strengthening awarenesson property rights).

Access to credit. According to information provided by the Superintendency of Banks and
Insurance (SBS), up to December 2003 approximately US$372,000,000 in loans had been granted




                                                    156

to 237,000 COFOPRI beneficiaries. Out of these 237,000 operations, approximately 67,000 were
guaranteedby mortgages, for a recorded value of almost US$405,000,000 (see charts below).              'I6




   LoanPortafolio Performance (COFOPRI                       Loan PortafolioSize (COFOPRI:beneficiariesvs.
    benefiaaries vs. other credit users) as of                   other credit users) as of December 31,2003
                   December 31,2003




il:                    Credits   -June2004                          Mortages      -June2004

                                                                                             I""
                                                                  Millions

                                                                  1
              UiilO
              100
                                                                  1
              110

              101                                                  1

              ( I O

              100

              350

              (00




      USERS                                                              2000 2001 2002  2003  2004




                                                       I           ::ik'



 Property Values. In order to have more conclusive information about Project impact on the poor
 urban real estate market, a quantitative study for the design of a price information system on
 properties was commissioned. The main purpose of this research (conducted on the basis of
 surveys) was to estimate the impact of COFOPRI titling process on the difference in prices
 observedbetween titled and untitled properties.

 The main finding of this analysis was that, the price differential associated with having a property
 title i s approximately US$925 per property (or around 25% of the value of the typical formalized


      The low use of the mortgage collateral is possibly associated with the high transaction cost of this
 guarantee in Peru (property appraisal, public notary deed, and deed registration). Nevertheless, even in
 absence of a mortgage, a recorded title provides financial institutions reasonable indication of the permanent
 residence and minimal economic stability of the credit applicant, so reducing the cost of credit evaluation and
 the risk of default.


                                                     157

' property, since a COFOPRI beneficiary property has an average market value of US$3,700). This
  marginal impact is constant, even after taking into account different geographical areas.

  Since the actual number of properties which COFOPRI succeeded in converting from "untitled" to
  "titled", up to June 30, 2004, was 565,536 with an increase of US$925 dollars as the referential
  value of the titling impact, it was estimated that the gross economic benefit producedby the UPRP
  was US$523 million, far exceeding the amount invested in the PNF (including the Bank loan and
  counterpart resources). (See Annex 9)

           b.       Social impact

  Citizen empowerment. The social assessments of the UPRP concluded that formalization has a
  positive impact to alleviate p~verty."~They also highlighted that four major factors restricted the
  beneficiary's ability to improve their tenure status: (a) lack of financial and other resources to obtain
  formal title; (b) uncertainty of the status of traditional arrangements (including squatting) together
  with uncertainties about possible negative implications of formalization; (c) conflicts over
  boundaries and inheritance; and (d) lack of decentralized and coordinated Government
  formalization services (including a single formalization methodology). The removal of these
  barriers for almost 1.5 million Peruvian families i s the major achievement of the UPRP in social
  terms.

  The UPRP benefited primarily squatters living in precarious conditions in urban and peri-urban
  areas. Levels of poverty among this target population were high, with -%             and -%     living in
  poverty and extreme poverty, respectively. These populations were also characterized by disparities
  in educational levels and health status, and limited productive assets - human capital, physical
   assets, financial assets, and social capital. Formalized people have a strong association with their
   homes as a place of security and social cohesion, rather than just an economic asset. Title to homes
   i s associated with the recognition of full citizenship, converting a titling program into a powerful
  instrument for social development.

  Labor Supply. Based on the information contained in the Baseline Survey, an independent
   researcher prepared a report on the impact of formalization on labor supply. The study presents
   empirical evidence to prove that informal owners waste a great deal of time protecting their
   property by having to take part in activities aimed at safeguarding this precarious rights, participate
   in community groups, and introduce administrative property claims in an attempt to obtain
   formalization. The study found that there i s a substantial cost interms of lost time and impossibility
   of entering the labor market as aresult of these activities.

   The main conclusions of that study were that: (i)formalization programs, contrary to other GoP
   assistance programs, facilitate the beneficiary population greater access to the labor market; (ii)
  urban land titling programs reduce the need to generate income at home by making it possible for
   the beneficiaries to seek better paid employment or greater productivity outside home (by not
   having to stay there in order to protect the property); and (iii)   formalization programs reduce the
   demand for child labor.




    '17"Encuesta de Linea de Base: Reporte Final" (Final report: Baseline survey), Apoyo Consultoria, Lima,
   November 2000. "Segunda Encuesta de Hogares para la Medicibn del Impact0 del Proyecto de Derechos de
   Propiedad Urbana en el Bienestar de la Poblacibn" (Final report: Follow-up survey), Consorcio ESAN-
   IMASEN,October, 2004.


                                                     158

The study indicates that for the average family, formalization is associatedwith an increase of 17%
in working hours, with a reduction of 47% inthe probability of having to work at home and with a
reduction of 28% inchild labor probability. The UPRP therefore allowed beneficiaries to have more
time to work outside home, to decrease their dependence on work at home which is usually less
productive, and to reduce the needfor children to seek work.    '18


Access to uflorduble credit. Studies carried out during the UPRP showed that even when the
families have limited resources, there is a high concentration of credit from formal sources,
including applicants who do not have any type of title to property. This is explained by the role of
Bunco de Muteriules (BANMAT) as a source of financing, even for those applicants who do not
possess any kind of property title, which shows that the State financial institution does not require
documents indicating property ownership as a requirement to be eligible for a credit. A study also
found that the credits approved for formalized inhabitants had on average an interest rate 9
percentagepoints lower that the comparable ratesfor credits granted non-formalized borrower^."^

The Project contracted another study to help encourage investment and credit in formalized areas.
The study found that the principal factors affecting credit demand were: (a) the reduced saving
capacity of the target population; (b) a fear of highdebt; (c) preference for short term conditions; (d)
confusion about interest rates; (e) need for payment flexibility; (f) dislike of complex processes; and
(g) weak incentive to repay due to lax collection practices by State credit entities like BANMAT.
These families also resort to informal credit due to the speed in approval and in spite of highinterest
rates.

The banking institutions also found obstacles to develop a formal credit niche among UPRP
beneficiaries: (a) informality of business activities associated with high credit risk; (b) lack of
proper funding to extend terms and amounts of mortgage financing; (c) credits to micro-enterprise
sector (SMEs) made difficult by SBS rules on portfolio classification; (d) lack of credit culture,
aggravated by State intervention; (e) elevated contract enforcement cost through the Judiciary; and
(f) lack of clarity on the scope of the mortgage and other collateralcoverage.I2'

The main restrictions that micro-finance specialized institutions found in order to expand their
activities among UPRP beneficiaries were: (a) high operating costs; (b) absence of micro-saving
products to attract savings of the targeted segment; (c) dependency on highly indebted applicants at
rates that discouraged other applicants; (d) low geographic diversification that increases risk; (e)
difficulty in expanding the patrimonial basis of the micro-finance institutions; and (f) difficulty to
operate in an over-regulated context.

A series of recommendations were made to facilitate credit and investment access for the UPRP
beneficiaries. Some of these recommendations were implementeddirectly by COFOPRI, but others
required coordinated action with public and private sector institutions. These recommendations
were organized in 5 groups: (a) implement reforms or activities which have a positive general
impact on the three objectives covered by the investment promotion subcomponent (development of
the real estate market and mortgage financing in the formalized sectors, promotion of small
producer credits in the formalized areas and promotion of infrastructure and services investment in
the same areas); (b) redefine State intervention based in the micro-financing sector; (c) reformulate


'18"Entitled to Work: Urban Property Rights and Labor Supply in Peru". Industrial Relations Section.
FirestoneLibrary. Princeton University. EricaField. October 2002.
   Field, Erica and Torero, Mkximo (2003).
'"In the case of BANMAT credits, having a title increases the proportion of credit approvals by 9-10%. A
similar effect is not observedin private lenderscredits.


                                                      159

housing policies directed at low-income sectors; (d) facilitate downscaling and upgrading of
financial institutions in order to facilitate credit access for small producers; and (e) facilitate access
to basic infrastructure.

Access to Zow-cost housing. A definite solution to informality and squatting required a
comprehensive strategy of urban development that included support schemes for viable low-cost
housing solutions. Urban zoning and planning costs issues would also have to be tackled in order to
ensure that squatting does not become an escape valve for population in need of housing with no
market alternatives.

The main factors limitingthe development of a formal real estate market among beneficiaries of the
UPRP are: (a) property and income informality; (b) low savings ability; (c) low payment ability
which hinders access to the formal credit; (d) lack of information on supply and demand of
properties; (e) heterogeneity in construction standards; (f) limitedparticipation of formal developers
in the area of low-cost lots or dwellings; and (g) high interest rates in both the informal and formal
market.

The GoP has started housing programs (TechoPropio,Miviviendu) basedon the principles of direct
subsidies to the poorest segments of the population and private sector participation in housing
financing and construction. The program finances dwellings of up to US$12,000 through the
granting of a direct subsidy to complement an initial amount saved by the beneficiary family and a
financial sector credit with resources from the MIVIVIENDA Fund. This program represented a
first time attempt by the Peruvian Government to introduce a direct subsidy scheme to satisfy
demand instead of the traditional indirect subsidies which were strongly criticized by housing
finance specialists. Although TechoPropio representedan improvement over the previous situation
there are still problems in housing financing to the extent that the existing BANMAT programs
have not been modified.

However, even though the programs were well designed their coverage was limited: from 5,000
units per year in 2003 to up to 8,000 units per year by 2006. It is clear that these efforts would not
be sufficient to satisfy a demand estimated in more than 1 million units. Moreover, the income
structure of the potential beneficiaries was highly volatile and depended on business cycles that
made unlikely for them to meet the eligibility requirements of the programs. These housing
programs were complemented with other initiatives with direct impact on poverty reduction, such as
neighborhood and home improvement programs, and programs aimed at the promotion of second-
floor construction. Adequate responses to the housing demand by the poor through State-sponsored
programs, plus the efficiencies obtained through the deepening of formalization (both in terms on
coverage and quality) became a powerful disincentive to 'squatting and clandestine urbanization
while promoting private sector investments in marginal areas.

4.       Conclusion: UPRPBalance

The UPRP socioeconomic objectives were achieved gradually. Documented positive effects exist
with regard to increased access to the labor market and to formal credit, increased values of
formalized properties, and improvements in gender matters. Credit and investment promotion
campaigns addressed information issues in order to help the market function more effectively.
Public sector micro-credit programs (BANMAT) did not facilitate the development of a credit
market in the formalized areas, but the private sector intervened when there was a business
opportunity.




                                                     160

Formalization alone i s not sufficient to bring about all the expected economic and social
benefits. It i s essential to complement it with a set of public policies, such as: (i)
strengthening the legal framework related to property rights; (ii)   facilitating access to credit
for formalized inhabitants through education programs; (iii)     carrying out campaigns to
promote business formalization; (iv) disseminating the advantages of the registry culture;
and (v) encouraging the development of micro-financing institutions.




                                                161

                                         Appendix 1

        Chart No. 1:Formalized Properties and Property Titles issued 1/(*)

                                                    Total     umbers
                    Department                 Plots                 Titles
               Total Lima                          782 449                631 847
               Caiiete                              17 844                 10 307
               Huacho                               12996                   4 850
               Lima Eastern Cone                   218 993                176417
               Lima Southern Cone                  242 686                207 000
               Lima Northern Cone                  289 930                202 566
               Total Provinces                   1041638                  732 587
               Ancash                               98 716                 77 855
               Arequipa                            201 959                 149 352
               Ayacucho                             69 349                 35 160
               Ica                                  81 535                 57 716
               Junin                                35 450                 20 841
               La Libertad                         147 772                 102 548
               Lambayeque                          121471                  84 550
               Loreto                               46 906                 39 703
               Moquegua                             33 368                 25 499
               Pasco                                15 632                  7 454
               Piura                               112902                  74 318
               Tacna                                53 003                 39 769
               Ucayali                              23 575                  17 822
               Total National                    1824 087                 1364434
               'BetweenApril 1996an( Iecember2003
             Source: COFOPRI
              (*) Moms, Endo, andUgaz,Develando el Misten'o (Unveiling the Mystery), COFOPRIandWB,
             Peru, 2004


              Chart No. 2: Evolution of the average cost of formalization (*)

                     Total expenditures             Titles Issued           Total cost per Title
                      (inUS$ millions)




Source: COFOPRI
(*) Moms, Endo, and Ugaz,Develando el Misterio (Unveiling the Mystery), COFOPRIandWB, Peru, 2004




                                                162

    Chart No. 3: AnnualNumbersofFormalizedPropertiesand TitlesIssuedby COFOPRI
                                                   (Units)(*)




  I General   Total I      782,449  I   1,041,638  I    1,824,087   I      631,847 I    732,587 1   1,364,434 I
Source: COFOPRI
(*) Moms, Endo, andUgaz,Develundo el Misterio (Unveilingthe Mystery),COFOPRIandWB, Peru, 2004




    I
    r  Transaction     1   Area      I                   Year                           Total 2000-03

                                       2000        2001        2002         2003         No           %
     Mortgage           .ima             4,014       5,002       2,553       5,782          17,351     23%
                        'rovince         8,374       15,047     19,317      16,183          58,921     77%
                        'otal           12,388      20,049      21,870      21,965          76,272    100%
     Sales              Lima            12,433       14,516     11,558      15,172          53,679     46%
                        Province        14,659       17,865     12,845      16,416          61,785     54%
                        Total           27,092      32,381      24,403      31,588         115,464    100%
     Others             Lima            25,521      22,937      28,851      37,892         115,201     41%
                        Province        30,178      44,419      45,351      45,616         165,564     59%
                        Total           55,699      67,356      74,202      83,508         280,765    100%
     Total              Lima            41,968      42,455      42,962      58,846         186,231     39%
                        Province        53,211      77,331      77,513      78,215         286,270     61%
                        Total           95,17S     119,786     120,475      137,061        472,501    100%


          (*)Source:Moms, Endo, and Ugaz,Develundo el Misterio (Unveiling the Mystery), COFOPRIandWB, Peru,
2004


         Chart No. 5: Amounts and number of creditsgranted informalized areas (*)




    (*)Source: Morris, Endo, and Ugaz,Develando el Misterio (Unveiling the Mystery), COFOPRIand WB, Peru, 2004



                                                        163

status              Target                   Mi
                  Segment*    Bank    *     Banco*    Soluci6n* Trabajo  CMAC       SME       CRAC

Current                75.3     81.2         96.9        96.3      93.4    92.1      88.3       68.9

Refinanced              4.2      5.6                      1.7       0.1      2.3      2.5       18.7
Expired and
judicial               20.5      13.2           3.1       2.0       6.5      5.6      9.2       12.4
collection
Total                100.00    100.00       100.00       100.00   100.00   100.00   100.00     100.00




          ChartNo. 7: Creditsto COFOPRIbeneficiariesbydepartmentandcreditstatus


                                    Total                Current-       Refinanced     Arrears & Judicial
                                                                                       Collection. Judicial
                                                                                      I              1
                                                                                                     I
                                          ~




                           'housands              Thousands           Thousands         Thousands
                               US$           %       US$        %
                                                                -       US$       %          US$       ?h

 h c a s h                   31,038         100.0 17,123        55.1       3,765  12.1  10,150        32.7
 Arequipa                    46,372         100.0 35,994        77.6       1,325  2.9   9,054         19.5
 Ica                         13,112         100.0   10169       77.6         941  7.2   2,002         15.3
 Junin                        4,573         100.0    3,909      85.5          80  1.7      584        12.8
 La Libertad                 28,262         100.0 21,472        76.0        1,310 4.6   5,479         19.4
 Lambayeque                  20,339         100.0 16,828        82.7         370  1.8    3,142        15.4
 Lima                       100,236         100.0 82,475        82.3       2,142  2.1   15,620        15.6
 Piura                       18,768         100.0 15,837        84.4         442  2.4    2,556         13.6
 Tacna                       10,620         100.0    9,023      85.0         268  2.5    1,328         12.5
 Rest                        40,151         100.0 33,250        81.6          838 2.6    5,994         14.9
                            313,470                             78.5       11,481
 - 1                                                            -
 Numberof Operations        212,575
 jource: Central de Informc 6n Positiva, C

        ChartNo. 8: Directcreditsto COFOPRIbeneficiariesby loanamount andsituation




INumberofoperations           I  202,839     I lOO.Ol   154,607 I 76.21  10,724  I 5.31 37,508      I 18.51



                                                        164

       Source: Central de Informacidn Positiva, CIP.
       (*) Moms, Endo, and Ugaz, Develando el Misterio (Unveilingthe Mystery), COFOPRI andWB, Peru, 2004


               Chart No.9: Comparisonof formalbankcreditquality to naturalpersons
      I Creditsto                               (by October 2003) (*)
      I Beneficiaries          I Normal
                               I                 %     II PotentialProblem I Provision
                                                                                I Loss orRisk        I   Total I
                                                                              %                 %    1    %    I
        COFOPRI
        Amount (MillUS$)            274.8         77.0         27.8          7.8      54.4      15.2        100
        Noof Credits(Thou. )           195 II     84.1           15 II       6.5        23II     9.8        100

        Other Creditsto
        Individuals
        Amount (MillUS$)           3089.1  I      75.9        283.2          7.0I    700.3      17.2  I     100
        N'of Credits (Thou.)         1566  I      81.6  II      141 II       7.3I      213 1I   11.1  I     100




Huancayo      30        137        5       197          630        3       241       861      4        288     1.602   5.6
Ayacucho      597       1.664      3       934         2.505       3       779      2.813     4        867     3.506   4.0
Pucallpa       7         39        6       65           156        2       119       525      4        109     0.785   7.2
Total        9.858     65.981      7     15.751       74.782       5     19.694    113.197    6       20720   140.553  6.8



                   ChartNo. 11:Impactof the CredicreceProgramincredit access (*)




                                                              165

Participantsthat have a balancerecord at the SBS (old)          181                    524      I   11%
Total of Participants                                     I    1.875    I100%     I   4.821     1 100%
 (*)Source: Morris, Endo, and Ugaz, Develandoel Misterio (Unveiling the Mystery), COFOPRI andWB,
 Peru, 2004
                                                Appendix 2

                                              Lessons Learned

 Legal and Institutional Reforms


       0   Institutional reforms are required to eliminate high transaction costs in property markets as
           a precondition for an effective demand for formalization.

 Investments in multi-purpose cadastre or valuation systems for tax purposes should come later at a
 time when formalization beneficiaries have gained enough trust in the State system and property
 markets have been functioning long enough for prices not to be distorted. Furthermore, for a UPRP
 type of project an appropriate technology that i s manageable and sustainable i s more important than
 sophisticated technology, especially for mapping, cadastre, and database activities.


       0   A flexible stance to legal and institutional reform must be clearly reflected in project
           design.

 Institutional reform i s an evolutionary process. As soon as a reform i s completed, new constraints
 and new obstacles emerge and efforts have to be taken to resolve these issues. New opportunities
 can also emerge that need to be capitalized (e.g. decentralization, registry unification, national
 cadastre system). Similarly, while a general legal framework was needed at the start of massive
 area-based property formalization program, the framework remained flexible to respond to local
 circumstances that were likely to emerge duringthe implementation process.


       0   Creation of a new institution with a single-purpose mandate to issue titles, rather than using
           an existing institution may yield positive results.

 This project proved that new institutions with fresh mandates can really accomplish what old
 institutions with old mandates could not. The new institutions remained strong and, by the end of
 the project, one of them (RPU) was able to move on to the merger of the registry established by the
 project with the old registry thereby'joining the strengths of both entities.

                                              A long-term vision




                                                      166

    0   Continuous Government-Bank dialogue may render very positive results inthe mediumand
        long terms.

A Government-Bank solid partnership may generate the most positive results during design and
implementation of property rights projects. In the UPRP, careful preparation was crucial for the
smooth and successful implementation. In addition, effective management and continuity of people
working on the project on the part of the Bank as well as the Borrower were critical for the success
of a project.


    0   A comprehensive approach to property rights should match modem organizations and
         markets.

Effective formalization of property rights through legal and institutional reforms i s feasible
provided that it addresses the causes of informal property and includes a mix of modem
organizations and practices that promote a long-term real estate property market based on secure
and transferable rights. Respect to private property should always be promoted as a basic principle
of the overall system.

    0   Long-term sustainability and legitimacy of property reforms must be addressed early on in
         the institutional framework.

The institutional framework can assure sustainability by: (i)integrating a participatory and
consultative approach in all stages of the formalization process; (ii)   providing for effective legal
security and reduction of transaction costs; (iii) requiringproperty information to be administered
through a geo-referencedcadastre system; (iv) comprising effective conflict resolutionmechanisms;
and (v) including provisions to facilitate collaborationbetween central and decentralized agencies.


    0    Recognition of property rights i s only the first step in a process to improve the living
         conditions of the formalized population.

Property rights formalization must be complemented by policies that promote access to credit,
housing, infrastructure, and community empowerment, among others. This particular Project
learned that the following complementary actions were needed: (i)         mechanisms of information
collection and maintenance regarding the characteristics of formalized properties and program
beneficiaries, that allow the market to operate more efficiently and effectively; (ii) promotion of the
potential of the formalized market among market agents involved in credit, investment on
infrastructure and public utilities (iii)
                                        involvement of other public and private institutions interested
in housingpolicies, credit and infrastructure, and public utilities, as partners in an effort to improve
the living conditions of the poor; (iv) community education to inform and educate the formalized
population on the significance of property rights, the benefits of registeringsubsequenttransactions,
and mechanisms to access to credit; and (v) strategies to strengthen the capacity of municipal
governments.




     0   Given the political sensitivity of property issues, securing and maintaining high-level
         consensus and commitment to property reform i s critical.

As demonstrated by the UPRP, a broad consensus involving the highest instances of Government
 was an essential precondition for the development of a massive titling, cadastre and registration
program. High-level political support was needed to concentrate functions and responsibilities


                                                  167

related to formalization into a single agency to achieve significant economic efficiency, standardize
and streamline land regularization procedures in a systematic and timely manner, and promote
equitable access to tenure security. In addition, high-level support helped to neutralize opposition by
those who benefitedby the status quo.

However, high-level support can falter, especially during changes in the political administration.
Therefore, a consensus-building and communication strategy must be designed and implemented to
sustain high-level support throughout the formalization process and beyond. The government's
commitment must be translated into specific actions like the establishment of institutional
arrangements, approval of the requiredregulations, as well as the signingof cooperation agreements
between participating agencies, like the ones entered into between COFOPRI and SUNARP.
Furthermore, to maintain a multi-sectoralperspective, it was critical to get the commitment of other
agencies concerned (such as MEF and MVCS) to implement related reforms in their sectors, so that
full impact of titling andlandregistration can berealized.

Special monitoring and evaluation mechanisms

     0   Property Rightsprojects should focus on monitoring and evaluatingthe potential social and
          economic benefits of property reforms.

Results of the socioeconomic monitoring component of the UPW not only improved decision-
makingbut also helped generate support for property reforms. Studies were conducted to measure
(qualitatively or quantitatively) the benefits of formalization. In addition, surveys were carried out
to identify the factors restricting access to credit, investment in housing, infrastructure and public
utilities, among others. The ability to demonstrate social and economic benefits facilitated alliance-
buildingand helped identify policy areas that neededto be reformedto realize further benefits.




                                                   168

                                          Appendix 3

                             ShanghaiConference Case Study


                                       Executive Summary

1. Problems/Issues Addressed

  (a) More than 1.5 million informal urban properties located inthe eight largest urban centers of
      Peru that provided housing for more than 8 million low-income Peruvians (which
      representedone third of the total population).
  (b) Two thirds of the labor force and at least half of available housingwere informalby 1996.
  (c) An estimated of more than twenty billion dollars were invested in informal housing but
      were not protected by legal titles or property registries, and had no access to formal credit
      by usingthe property as collateral.
  (d) Connection to public utilities as water, sewerage and power were hard to obtain due to the
      lack of reliable data about property rights and land allocation, and potential conflicts and
      insecurity about land tenure.
  (e) A weak legal and institutional framework that was unable to accommodate various types of
      informaltenure within the formal system.

2. ObjectivesPursued

  (a) Title and register more than 1million urban informal properties in 8 major urban centers of
      Peru.
  (b) Generatesubstantial increasesin:
      i. Propertycommercialvalues;
      ii.Recordedpropertytransactions;
      iii.Accesstocreditanduseofformalizedpropertyascollateral;and
      iv. Investments in housing development and the better use of urban informal property in
          accordancewith market values.
  (c) Include a substantial portion of the Peruvian urban population into the formal sector by:
      i. Providingaccesstoeffectiveprotectionofpropertyrights;
      ii.Allowingaccesstoinfrastructureandpublicutilities;and
      iii.Increasingfemaleowners'share.

3. DesignandImplementation

  (a) Consistency of the objectives with the country's strategy, based on revised institutional
      framework, establishment and strengthening of specialized autonomous entities (COFOPRI
      and RPU), and a NationalFormalization Program (NFP).
  (b) Diagnostic surveys of other urban centers allowed making informed decisions on areas to
      pursue or discard on the basis of the complexity and potential.
  (c) The project involved two autonomous agencies in the implementation process: COFOPRI
      and RPUthat had appropriate budget management authority as well as technical, functional,
      and administrative autonomy.
  (d) The three major stakeholders identified were: (i)urban landholders; (ii)financial
      institutions; and (iii)planning and development services suppliers: local governments,
      urban infrastructure and services providers, land and housing developers (private and
      public).



                                               169

4. ProblemsEncountered

  (a) Strong social pressurein mainurban centers to begin expansion earlier than expected.
  (b) Not all forms of informality were identified during project preparation (pueblos
      tradicionales,programas de viviendadel estado, mercadospopulares).

5. Adaptations MadeduringImplementation

  (a) Expansionto other urban centers beyondthe initially targeted (Lima and seven other major
      urban centers). A number of COFOPRI staff trained inLima and Arequipa were transferred
      to the new cities to managethe formalization process andtrain local human resources.
  (b) In-house development of the cartography and mapping databases instead of outsourcing as
      originally envisaged.
  (c) Discussions with beneficiaries helped identifying and dealing with new forms of
      informality.
  (d) Design of'special procedures for certain types of properties which due to their special
      features requiredad-hoc rules such as archeological or risk areas.
  (e) The adoption of decentralized formalization procedures through Provincial Commissions
      chaired by the local mayors, being COFOPRI only in charge of the technical formalization
      work.

6. Factorsfor Success

  (a) Scaling-up was possible because of the experience gained duringthe initial years, processes
      standardization, and modular design which allowed replicating positive experiences in new
      urban areas.
  (b) Broad and sustained consensus among the highest authorities of the Executive and
      Legislative Branches, the leaders and people of the informal settlements and civil society at
      large, about required reforms thus neutralizing the opposition from important interest
      groups which wanted to keep the status quo.
  (c) Adoption of an institutional reform strategy based on political consensus, aiming at: (i)
      generating massive titling; (ii) concentrating formalization functions and responsibilities;
      and (iii) neutralizingvestedpublic and private interests.
  (d) Research-driven project design and implementation.
  (e) Shared consensus of the direct relationship between property formalization and poverty
      reduction.

7. ResultsAchieved

  (a)  1,134,315 property titles issued by June 2004 (which exceeded the initial target of
       1,019,746 titles by 11%)
  (b) Improved social stability: legal security provided by the property title and using the title as
      collateral for a loan; improved quality of life of beneficiary families, especially of women
      and children; consolidated State presencein poor areas.
  (c) Increased access to public utilities: homes with property titles have more access to public
      utilities than informal possessions.
  (d) Investment in home improvement, increased property value and subsequent transactions:
      people from low income levels consider that formalization increased the value of their
      property between 20% and 30%; the marginal impact of a property title in each parcel is
      approximately US$925.OO, which represents an increase of about 25%; subsequent property




                                               170

         transactions (sales, sub divisions, exchanges, inheritance, etc.), have passedfrom 58,000 in
         1999 to 136,000 in 2003, which represents a 134%increase.
         Increased access to credit: the number of mortgages registered has increased 106%
         between 2000 and 2003; mortgages amount increased from US$66 millions in 2000 to
         US$136 millions in 2003; credits granted by the formal financial system have increased by
         47% in 3 years (December 2000-December 2003), from US$249 millions to US$367
         millions; the number of credits granted has grown 53% in the same period (from 154,000 to
         235,000); a '17% increase in the labor hours of beneficiary families and a 47% decrease in
         the possibility of working at home.
         Other social benejits: a 28% reductioninthe likelihood of child work, and a 66% of women
         individual owners.

8. LessonsLearned

Effective formalization of property rightsthrough legal and institutional reforms i s feasible
provided that it addresses the causes of informal property and includes a mix of modern
organizations andpractices that serve a real estate property market basedun secure and transferable
rights.

Formalization must be complemented by: (i)mechanisms of information collection and
maintenance regarding the characteristics of formalized properties and program beneficiaries, that
allow the market to operate more efficiently and effectively; (ii)      surveys to identify the factors
restricting access to credit, investment in housing, and in infrastructure and public utilities; (iii)
involvement of other public and private institutions interested in housing policies, credit and
infrastructure, and public utilities, as partners in an effort to improve the living conditions of the
poor; (iv) education of the formalized population on mechanisms to, access to credit; (v)
dissemination among the formalized population of the benefits of registering subsequent
transactions; (vi) promotion of the potential of the formalized market among market agents involved
in credit, investment on infrastructure and public utilities; (vii) strengthening of the municipal
government regarding land administration, planning and urban development, as well as promotion
of local economies; and (viii) land management systems that allow land allocation for housing
purposes, as apart of an environmentally sustainabledevelopment strategy.

9. Conclusion

The recognition of property rights i s only the first step inthe process to improve the living
conditions of the formalized population, providing them the legal security that allows
access to credit, increases properties' value, provides access to infrastructure and public
services, and develops a real estate market. The UPRP was not designed to provide
immediate access to credit, but to generate the essential conditions for the development of a
credit market.

It is essential to develop modern institutions, buildconsensus about the reforms, show the
economic and social benefits of the reforms, and establish alliances with stakeholders. Land
administration policies that allow the efficient allocation of land resources should be
developed to satisfy housing demand and prevent future invasions. Respect to private
property should always be promoted.




                                                   171


                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33465

                 80W                                                                                75W
                                                                                                     75                                                                          70W
                                                                                                                                                                                 70

0                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0




                              ECUADOR                                                                Arcadia                             COLOMBIA

                                                                                                              Napo

                                                                                   Corrientes                                                  Putumayo

                                                                                                TigrePuerto Curaray


                     To
                     To
                   Machala
      Tumbes                                                                                                                                                 Amazonas
    TUMBES                                    Santiago
                        To
                        To
                       Loja                 A                        Pastaza                                               Iquitos
                                                                                                                                                                Caballococha

                                                                                            L O R E T O                                                                                           BRAZIL
     Talara                               AM                Ayar Manco                                                                             Yavari
        Sullana

5S          P I U R A                     Z
                             C O  San                                                                                                                                                                              5S

             Piura  A         A   Ignacio                         Maraon
                                             N                                                                            Ucayali

                       n       JA             A
                                 M                  S                                Yurimaguas                  Tamnco
                                                                                                                  amnco
                          d ARCA     Chachapoyas
                                                               Moyobamba
                                                               Tarapoto
        LAMBA-                 e
         YEQUE                                               S A N
                     Chiclayo                                                                                                                                                     PERU
                                   s                      M A R T I N
                                        Cajamarca
                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                 Cruzeiro
                                                                                                                                 do Sul

                       Trujillo                                               Santa
                                                                              Lucia
                     LA LIBERTAD     AD                                                                         Pucallpa

                                            Nevada        Sihuas
                                         Hueascarn
                                         Hueascarn                         Hualaga
                            Chimbote     (6768 m)
                                           ANCASH                                       Tingo Mara
                                                                                                Mara

                                             Huaraz                         HUANUCO                              Ucayali
                                                                                         Hunuco
                                                                                         Hunuco
10S                                                   Nevada
                                                       Yerupaja                                                                                                                                                   10S
                                                       (6634 m)                                                          U C AYA L 
                                                                                            PA S C O
                                                          Goyllarisquizga                                                                                   Purs
                                                                     M             Cerro de
              PACIFIC                                                                  Pasco
                                             Huacho           Sayn
                                                              Sayn
                                                                                                      Satipo                              Atalaya

              OCEAN                                         L I M A t                    La
                                                                                   n     Oroya       J U N I N     Apurimac                                        M A D R E

                                                        Callao     LIMA                  s           Huancayo                          Urubamba               Madre
                                                                                                                                                                  D E D I O S

                                                                                               .                                                                   de                   Puerto
                                                                                                                 Ayna           C U Z C O                            Dios
                                                                                                                                                            Sintuya              Maldonado
                                                                                   Huancavelica
    0         100      200            300 Kilometers                                                                          Quillabamba           Nevada
                                                                                              HUANCA-                Ayacucho                      Salcantay
                                                                                                                                                   (6271 m)         Lanlacuni            Astillero
                                                                                                                                                                          Bajo
    0               100                 200 Miles
                                                                      Pisco                                                                                         Nudo          Inambari
                                                                                             Ica
                                                                                        I C A

                 PERU                                                              Caballas     VELICAAYACU C H O          APURIM A C                     Cusco
                                                                                                                                             Abancay
                                                                                                                                                                  Ausandate
                                                                                                                                                                  (6384 m)      P U N O
                                                                                                                                                                                                      To San
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Buenaventura
                                                                                                             Puquio

                                                                                                         Nazca
                                                                                                                                           Alca            Cailloma                                               15S

                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                          San Juan                                                 Nevada                  Juliaca
                                                                                                                                                  Coropuna                                        Carabuco
              SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                           (6271 m) Andes                            Lago
                                                                                                                                                                                          Titicaca
              DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                                                                      Antiquipa                 A R E Q U I PA                               Puno

                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
              NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                          Atico                       Arequipa       Mtns.                                  La Paz
                                                                                                                                                                                   Desaguadero
              RIVERS

              MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                       Mollendo    Moquega

              RAILROADS                                                                                                              MOQUEGUA                             TA C N A

              DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                          To       BOLIVIA
                                                                                                                                                                          Tacna         Visviri

              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                               To Beln
                                                                                                                                                                                        Beln

                                                                                                     75W                                                             To Iquique  CHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                          OCTOBER 2004

