                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                         Report No: ICR2542



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IBRD-73680)



                                    ON A LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF USD 25 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                       FOR A

               REAL PROPERTY RIGHTS CONSOLIDATION PROJECT



                                  February 27, 2013




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Public Sector & Governance Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective as of November 12, 2012)
                       Currency Unit = Peruvian Nuevo Sol
                                 1.00 = US$ 0.38
                                 US$ 1.00 = 2.61

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 – December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEU       Budget Execution Unit
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
COFOPRI   Agency for the Formalization of Informal Property (Organismo de
          Formalización de la Propiedad Informal)
CPPR      Country Project Portfolio Review
CY        Calendar Year
GoP       Government of Peru
FM        Fiscal Management
FY        Fiscal Year
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
ICT       Information and Communications Technology
IGN       National Geographic Institute (Instituto Geográfico Nacional)
INT       World Bank Department of Institutional Integrity
IPR       Internal Procurement Post Review
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
MINJUS    Ministry of Justice and Human Rights (Ministerio de Justicia y Derechos
          Humanos)
MVCS      Ministry of Housing, Construction and Sanitation (Ministerio de Vivienda,
          Construcción y Saneamiento)
NCB       National Competitive Bidding
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCM       Presidency of the Council of Ministers (Presidencia del Consejo de
          Ministros)
PCU       Project Coordinating Unit (Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto)
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PETT      Special Program for Rural Land Titling (Programa Especial de Titulación
          de Tierras)
RP        Real Property Registry (Registro de Predios)
SIAF      Integrated Financial Administration System (Sistema Integrado de
          Administración Financiera)
SUNARP    National Superintendency of Public Registries (Superintendencia Nacional
          de Registros Públicos)
TOR       Terms of Reference
UPRP   Urban Property Rights Project
USD    US Dollars


                    Vice President: Hasan A. Tuluy
                  Country Director: Susan Goldmark
                    Sector Manager: Arturo Herrera
                 Project Team Leader: David F. Varela
                   ICR Team Leader: Diego Dorado
           ICR Main Author: Francisco Lazzaro, Sheila Grandio
                                                 PERU
                           Real Property Rights Consolidation Project (P078894)


CONTENTS

DATA SHEET .................................................................................................................... v
A. Basic Information........................................................................................................... v
B. Key Dates ....................................................................................................................... v
C. Ratings Summary ........................................................................................................... v
D. Sector and Theme Codes............................................................................................... vi
E. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................... vi
F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................... vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ........................................................................ x
H. Restructuring (if any) ..................................................................................................... x
I. Disbursement Profile ...................................................................................................... xi

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT.................................. 1
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 15
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 15
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 26
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 27
Annex 6 Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ............................ 29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 30
DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information
                                                                          REAL PROPERTY
                                                                          RIGHTS
Country:                Peru                    Project Name:
                                                                          CONSOLIDATION
                                                                          PROJECT
Project ID:             P078894                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-73680
ICR Date:               02/27/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:                 REPUBLIC OF PERU
Original Total
                        USD 25.00M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 19.07M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 19.15M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: COFOPRI, IGN, SUNARP
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: Not Applicable

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/22/2005     Effectiveness:          01/31/2007          02/01/2007
                                                                                 11/20/2006
                                                                                 01/14/2008
Appraisal:            11/09/2005     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 11/04/2010
                                                                                 06/24/2011
Approval:             03/14/2006     Mid-term Review:        09/24/2009          09/24/2009
                                     Closing:                12/31/2011          06/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing     Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies: Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower          Moderately
                           Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:              Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General public administration sector                                    37                  37
Sub-national government administration                                  63                  63


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Land administration and management                                      25                  25
Municipal governance and institution building                           25                  25
Personal and property rights                                            50                  50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:              Hasan A. Tuluy                       Pamela Cox
Country Director:            Susan Goldmark                       Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager:              Arturo Herrera Gutierrez             Ronald E. Myers
Project Team Leader:         Diego R. Dorado Hernandez            David F. Varela
ICR Team Leader:             Diego R. Dorado Hernandez
                             Francisco Lazzaro
ICR Primary Author:
                             Sheila Grandio

F. Results Framework Analysis
Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective of the Project was to consolidate a decentralized and sustainable quality real
property rights system that facilitated access for the Peruvian population. This system would
enhance the welfare of real property owners and facilitate access to economic opportunities. Even
though the Project could not eliminate all forms/causes of informal tenure, it would reduce the
negative impacts of informality and discourage further informality by consolidating the legal
security of property rights, completing conversion of informal tenure, and building capacity to
address its causes through strategic partnerships of various levels of Government and key
stakeholders in the private sector and civil society. The project would also provide support to the
decentralization program of GoP through the institutional strengthening of Participating
Municipalities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (PDO) (as approved by original approving
authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                 Original Target   Formally     Actual Value
                                  Baseline        Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
         Indicator
                                   Value            approval        Target      Completion or
                                                  documents)        Values      Target Years
Appropriate legal,
regulatory and institutional     No baseline
framework for real                value was
                                                        -          Dropped
property rights protection       identified at
and promotion adopted and       project design
operational.
Low transaction cost of
                                 No baseline
formalization and cadaster
                                  value was
for users in terms of out-                              -          Dropped
                                 identified at
of-pocket expenditures and
                                project design
time.
Low formalization and
cadaster costs for GoP
                                     64                 -             64              110
(Project average titling unit
cost in US Dollars).
Increased number of              No baseline
SUNARP users and                  value was
                                                        -          Dropped
internet services                identified at
                                project design
Increased number of
integrated real property
cadaster and registry
records (Number of                    0                 -          5,823,770       3,300,523
property registry records
under a new registry
model).
Average property value           No baseline
increase about US$550             value was
                                                        -          Dropped
                                 identified at
                                project design
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)
                                            Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                               Baseline      Values (from                         Achieved at
        Indicator                                             Revised
                                Value          approval                          Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                             documents)                          Target Years
Diagnostic studies
finalized (including
subjects like cost-benefit,       0                 4                 3                3 1*
credit practices and land
allocation).
Workshops held with key
stakeholders on real              0                 2                 3                3*
property rights issues.
Legal and regulatory
reform proposals
identified, prepared and
agreed upon on real
property rights, land             0                 4                 3                2*
administration and
allocation, investment and
credit promotion and inter-
institutional coordination.
80 Provincial
Municipalities provided
                                  0                144               80               0 2**
training on formalization
services by COFOPRI
Approximately 400,000
lots formalized by                0                 -             398,952           335,985
COFOPRI
Approximately 300,000
                                  0              471,000          300,000           307,913
titles issued by COFOPRI.
COFOPRI’s Project
Average titling unit costs
                                  64                -                64               110
not higher than $100 per
title.
56 District Municipalities
provided training on
                                  0                427               56                59
cadaster services by
COFOPRI.



1
 * Variance in the figures reflected in the final ISR and ICR are due to forecasted estimates
available at the time of final ISR preparation.
2
  ** Training on formalization services for provincial municipalities was halted due to Law 29802
which broadened the terms of COFOPRI’s special regime. However, the transfer of capacities to
local governments has been successfully undertaken through cadaster workshops which have
surpassed the previous targets set by the Project.
                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                 Baseline      Values (from                         Achieved at
           Indicator                                            Revised
                                  Value          approval                          Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
Approximately 536,000
properties cadastered by
                                     0             536,000          535,639           544,762
COFOPRI.

5,823,000 million property
registry records under a           0              5,670,000        5,823,770          3,300,523
new registry model.
New publicity services       No baseline
provided (summary             value was
                                                      -             Dropped
sheets).                     identified at
                            project design
SUNARP publicity             No baseline
services on-line no less      value was
                                                      -             Dropped
than 67% of total publicity identified at
services.                   project design
SUNARP average duration No baseline
of registration of property   value was
                                                      -             Dropped
transaction in SUNARP no identified at
longer than 5 days.         project design
45 permanent continuous
monitoring GPS stations            0                  14               45                  45
installed.
4,955 control points added
                                   0                4,955             4,955               4,955
to geodetic network.
Increased access to credit
                             No baseline
evidenced by number and
                              value was
amounts of credit obtained                            -             Dropped
                             identified at
by formalized users, with
                            project design
or without mortgages.
129,000 recently
formalized owners use real         0               129,000          129,000               0 3***
property exchange.
Disaggregated socio-
                             No baseline
economic information
                              value was
generated by the Project                              -             Dropped
                             identified at
and user feedback utilized
                            project design
in decision-making.




3
    *** Variance in figures due to error on final ISR. ICR reflects the correct amount.
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                          Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
 1     06/21/2006        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.00
 2     01/05/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.00
 3     02/02/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     0.00
 4     05/15/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     2.06
 5     12/21/2007        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     2.14
 6     06/30/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     3.39
 7     12/18/2008        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                     5.20
 8     06/04/2009       Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory                    7.67
 9     12/17/2009        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   11.30
 10    06/29/2010        Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory            13.29
 11    02/20/2011        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   16.99
 12    08/10/2011        Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   16.99
                         Moderately              Moderately
 13    03/19/2012                                                              19.33
                        Unsatisfactory         Unsatisfactory

H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Reflect a reduction in the
 11/20/2006               S       S           0.00   commitment fee payable by the
                                                     Borrower
                                                     (i) modify the role of COFOPRI
                                                     in connection with Part B of the
                                                     Project; (ii) modify the role of
                                                     Provincial Municipalities in
                                                     connection with Parts B.1 and
                                                     B.2 of the Project; (iii) modify
                                                     the composition of the Steering
 01/14/2008               S       S           2.14
                                                     Committee; (iv) extend the
                                                     definition of Operating Costs
                                                     under the Project; and (v)
                                                     modify the description of Parts
                                                     B.1 and B.2 of the Project, as to
                                                     reflect the new role of
                                                     COFOPRI.
                                                     To allow the use of electronic
                                                     means         for      delivering
 11/04/2010               S     MS           13.29
                                                     applications for withdrawals
                                                     and supporting documentation.
                                                     The Project was restructured in
 06/24/2011               S       S          16.99
                                                     order to consolidate Project
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     achievements       and     ensure
                                                     Project     sustainability   after
                                                     closing. The modifications in
                                                     that phase included: (i) changes
                                                     in                implementation
                                                     arrangements; (ii) changes in
                                                     component-specific costs; (iii)
                                                     changes       in    disbursement
                                                     arrangements; (iv) extension of
                                                     the Closing Date by six months
                                                     to June 30, 2012; (v) changes to
                                                     selected indicators of the results
                                                     framework; and (vi) revisions to
                                                     the Project Annual Operating
                                                     Plans and Procurement Plans as
                                                     a result of the above changes.




I. Disbursement Profile
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Country Context
1.       At the time of the Project’s appraisal, the Government of Peru (GoP)’s poverty reduction
strategy had three main objectives: (i) competitiveness and employment generation; (ii) equity
and social justice; and (iii) institutionality and governance, which was defined as the creation of
an efficient, transparent, participatory, and decentralized State. In an effort to link fiscal
sustainability and the decentralization agenda, the GoP had taken actions to develop a new
decentralization framework that incorporated principles of fiscal sustainability at the sub-national
level. The decentralization process, which was conceived to be gradual in nature, showed
sustained momentum during its initial years of existence. From 2002 to 2007, eleven laws were
passed to outline the decentralization framework, which was primarily based on the principles of
neutral fiscal sustainability. Following the election of Alan Garcia as President in 2006, the
decentralization process began to focus more heavily on transferring programmatic functions to
subnational governments rather than developing those governments’ income generation
responsibilities. At the regional level, the GoP focused on completing the legal and regulatory
framework while gradually advancing the transfer of programmatic responsibilities at the
municipal level. The GoP also sought to take actions regarding current debt stock of over-
indebted municipalities. In that regard, the Integrated Financial Administration System (SIAF)
module was implemented in all municipalities to ensure proper financial management. The SIAF
system included a cadaster sub-module that was expected to allow municipal governments to
make a proper use of cadastral information for tax purposes (including assessment and
collection). For that system to succeed, it was necessary to build capacity for both generating and
managing cadaster information –both issues which fell under the scope of the Real Property
Rights Consolidation Project.

Context at the sector level

2.      The Project followed a previous Bank operation, the Urban Property Rights Project
(UPRP – Loan No. 4384-PE). The UPRP had supported the GoP in the implementation of major
property rights reforms between 1998 and 20044 , closing with the following results: (a) around
1,135 million new property titles were recorded, which benefited more than 5.7 million Peruvians
in marginal communities; (b) about 630,000 of those properties were later mobilized through
market transactions; (c) property value increased by around US$1.05 billion; and (d) formal credit
was mobilized in the order of $400 million.

3.       The UPRP also tried to tackle some decentralization issues related to the field of property
rights. In that regard, after the year 2000 all formalization activities were transferred to Provincial
Formalization Commissions. However, despite the fact that the system facilitated the
prioritization of interventions, it was not successful in transferring know-how to provincial
municipalities because of their limited institutional capacity.


4
    For more info on the reforms, see World Development Report, Chapter IV, Property Rights, 2005, p. 81.




                                                           1
4.      At the time of Project design in 2004, there was will at the institutional level to continue
devoting efforts to formalization initiatives. Within that context, the Real Property Rights
Consolidation Project was expected to continue the efforts to consolidating property rights in
Peru, and to support provincial municipalities’ gradual movement to the “driver’s seat? of
formalization processes.

5.      Under the Project, the decentralization of the formalization process would proceed via
Participation Agreements between COFOPRI and selected provincial and district municipalities.
Under the Participation Agreements, municipalities would provide (in exchange for formalization
and cadaster support) local offices and staff, vehicles, and room and board for COFOPRI staff
temporarily assigned to work with them for local capacity building. The tax dimension of the
cadaster would be closely coordinated with the SIAF initiative to develop the untapped tax
potential of recently formalized areas.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

6.       The main objective of the Project was to consolidate a decentralized and sustainable
quality real property rights system that would facilitate access to property titles for the Peruvian
population. The system was expected to enhance the welfare of real property owners and
facilitate access to economic opportunities. The system would also provide support to the
decentralization program of the GoP through the institutional strengthening of the participating
municipalities.

7.       The key indicators were: (i) an appropriate legal, regulatory and institutional framework
for real property rights protection and promotion adopted and operational; (ii) low transaction
cost of formalization and cadaster for users in terms of out-of-pocket expenditures and time; (iii)
low formalization and cadaster costs for GoP; (iv) increased number of SUNARP users and
internet services; (v) increased number of integrated real property cadastre and registry records;
and (vi) an average property value increase of about US$550.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

8.      During the implementation of the Project, the Project Development Objective (PDO) and
the description of components, subcomponents and activities remained unchanged. Changes to
selected indicators within the results framework were made to ensure a closer alignment between
the contributions of Project-financed activities to the achievement of the PDO. In that regard, the
Project reduced the number of results indicators, choosing only the ones that were most relevant
in measuring the Project’s desired outcomes.

9.       After protracted internal discussions and agreements with the Client, four key indicators
were dropped with the remaining ones considered to be sufficient to measure the PDO. These
indicators proved to be too extensive and beyond the Project's scope (e.g., adoption and
implementation of legal, regulatory and institutional framework and increased property values are
not within the Project's control to claim sufficient and direct attribution), redundant (e.g., cost of
formalization and cadaster to users with cost to GoP already measured), or no longer relevant
(e.g., increased number of SUNARP users and internet services given the change in strategy
during implementation).



                                                  2
10.      Following these discussions between the Bank and Client which started one year prior to
the Project’s closing date; the Project was restructured on June 24, 2011. Four PDO indicators
were dropped and several intermediate indicators were either dropped or revised (see table 1 for
detail):

                   Table 1. Project restructuring, original vs. revised indicators
                                                               Original Target Formally Revised
                         Indicator
                                                                     Values        Target Values
PDO Indicators
Appropriate legal, regulatory and institutional framework
for real property rights protection and promotion adopted          -              Dropped
and operational.
Low transaction cost of formalization and cadaster for users
                                                                   -              Dropped
in terms of out-of-pocket expenditures and time.
Low formalization and cadaster costs for GoP (Project
                                                                   -                 64
average titling unit cost in US Dollars).
Increased number of SUNARP users and internet services             -              Dropped
Increased number of integrated real property cadaster and
registry records (Number of property registry records under        -             5,823,770
a new registry model).
Average property value increase about US$550                       -              Dropped
Intermediate Indicators
Diagnostic studies finalized (including subjects like cost-
                                                                   4                  3
benefit, credit practices and land allocation).
Workshops held with key stakeholders on real property
                                                                   2                  3
rights issues.
Legal and regulatory reform proposals identified, prepared
and agreed upon on real property rights, land administration
                                                                   4                  3
and allocation, investment and credit promotion and inter-
institutional coordination.
80 Provincial Municipalities provided training on
                                                                  144                80
formalization services by COFOPRI
Approximately 400,000 lots formalized by COFOPRI                   -              398,952
Approximately 300,000 titles issued by COFOPRI.                 471,000           300,000
COFOPRI’s Project Average titling unit costs not higher
                                                                   -                 64
than $100 per title.
56 District Municipalities provided training on cadaster
                                                                  427                56
services by COFOPRI.
Approximately 536,000 properties cadastered by
                                                                536,000           535,639
COFOPRI.
5,823,000 million property registry records under a new
                                                               5,670,000         5,823,770
registry model.
New publicity services provided (summary sheets).                  -              Dropped
SUNARP publicity services on-line no less than 67% of
                                                                   -              Dropped
total publicity services.
SUNARP average duration of registration of property
                                                                   -              Dropped
transaction in SUNARP no longer than 5 days.
45 permanent continuous monitoring GPS stations installed.         14                45


                                                3
                                                              Original Target Formally Revised
                         Indicator
                                                                  Values       Target Values
4,955 control points added to geodetic network.                    4,955           4,955
Increased access to credit evidenced by number and
amounts of credit obtained by formalized users, with or                -              Dropped
without mortgages.
129,000 recently formalized owners use real property
                                                                   129,000            129,000
exchange.
Disaggregated socio-economic information generated by
                                                                       -              Dropped
the Project and user feedback utilized in decision-making.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

11.     The Project was expected to increase the quality of life of families living on the
properties targeted under the Decentralized Formalization and Cadaster Services component.
This component was expected to cover around 3.7 million people, representing about 15% of the
total population of Peru. Specific areas were pre-selected under the Participation Agreements
using criteria related to: (i) population density; (ii) poverty levels; (iii) economic potential; and
(iv) cost-benefit ratio. This allowed for areas in the so-called “Poverty Triangle? section of the
country (Ayacucho, Huancavelica and Apurimac) to be included, as well as the departments of
Tumbes, Puno, Tacna, Piura and Cajamarca –which also showed significant levels of poverty.
During project implementation the areas of intervention expanded, resulting in coverage being
provided to a total of ten regions: Ancash, Ayacucho, Cajamarca, Cusco, Junín, Lambayeque, La
Libertad, Lima, Piura and Puno.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Comprehensive Real Property Rights Policies (0.86% of project costs –
US$360,000 total, of which US$180,000 correspond to Bank financing).

12.     The objective of this component was to strengthen the property rights policy-making
process in Peru in order to preserve the achievements of the legal, regulatory and institutional
reforms pursued under the UPRP, and to ensure that further reforms would have a positive socio-
economic impact. Topical areas included inter-institutional coordination in a decentralized
governance framework, access to affordable land, land use planning for municipalities, and the
linkages between real property rights institutions and the financial and housing sectors.

Component 2. Decentralized Formalization and Cadaster Services Provision (50.91% of
project costs – US$21.21 million total, of which US$13.71 million correspond to Bank
financing).

13.      The objective was to expand the formalization of urban and peri-urban areas within the
territories of participating municipalities, via the provision of technical assistance by COFOPRI
through activities that: (i) were adapted to the diverse needs of informal owners; (ii) justified in
cost-benefit terms; and (iii) involved capacity-building for provincial and district municipalities.
The Project aimed to continue promoting administrative simplification aimed at recognizing and
protecting property rights in order to prevent a reversion to informality by creating an
environment in which formal rules interacted with social reality and reduced transaction costs.




                                                 4
Component 3. Modern Real Property Rights Systems (36% of project costs – US$15 million
total, of which US$9.40 million correspond to Bank financing).

14.      The objective was to support the integration of real property data and the establishment of
the national cadaster system in SUNARP to improve: (a) the quality of property registry-cadaster
services; and (b) the Peruvian population’s access to the system. This component supported
SUNARP’s real property registry information system and real property demarcation activities. It
comprised the following subcomponents: a unified real property registry, and a national
integrated real property cadaster information system.

Component 4. Credit and Registry Culture Promotion (4.92% of project costs – US$2.05
million total, of which US$900,000 correspond to Bank financing).

15.      The objective of this component was to support the economic utilization of property
rights and foster real property–related economic activity in formalized areas. Specific goals were:
(a) providing practical information on the linkage between registration and access to credit as a
tool for individual empowerment; (b) reducing information gaps between formalized owners, and
credit and service providers; (c) understanding real estate markets in marginal areas in order to
identify measures to encourage and facilitate real property transactions and investments; and (d)
developing strategic alliances among the public and private sectors to promote business
development in formalized areas and facilitate investments in infrastructure and services.

Component 5. Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (7.25% of project costs –
US$3.03 million total, of which US$800,000 correspond to Bank financing)

16.      The objective of this component was to achieve effective and efficient Project
implementation. It supported standard Project management, and monitoring and evaluation
activities, like (i) assessments of the transparency and accountability framework of COFOPRI
and SUNARP, and (ii) evaluation of socio-economic outcomes through: (a) continuous follow-up
of poverty indicators in formalized areas; (b) assessment of market mobilization of real property
rights in terms of transaction numbers and prices, credit and investment directed to formalized
properties, and (c) review of the impact of Project communications and educational activities in
terms of knowledge gains and behavior changes in individuals and communities.

1.6 Revised Components

17.      Project components were not revised, nor were additional components added during the
life of the loan. However, allocations by components were revised under the June 24, 2011
restructuring. In particular, the total costs of implementing Components 1, 3 and 4 were reduced
while the total cost of Component 2 was increased to support the completion of COFOPRI’s
titling activities in selected areas where substantial demand for formalization and cadaster
services had been detected.

1.7 Other significant changes

18.   The Loan Agreement was amended on November 20, 2006, to reflect a reduction in the
commitment fee payable by the Borrower.

19.     On January 14, 2008, the Loan was amended to: (i) modify the role of COFOPRI in
connection with Part B of the Project; (ii) modify the role of provincial municipalities in


                                                 5
connection with Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project; (iii) modify the composition of the Steering
Committee; (iv) extend the definition of Operating Costs under the Project; and (v) modify the
description of Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, as to reflect the new role of COFOPRI.

20.     The Loan Agreement was further amended on November 4, 2010 to allow the use of
electronic means for delivering applications for withdrawals and supporting documentation.

21.      The Project was restructured on June 24, 2011 in order to consolidate Project
achievements and ensure Project sustainability after closing. The modifications in that phase
included: (i) changes in implementation arrangements following the decision of the Ministry of
Finance (MEF) to convert the Project Coordination Unit into an autonomous budget-holder unit;
(ii) changes in component-specific costs; (iii) changes in disbursement arrangements to introduce
a new disbursement category, reallocation of Loan proceeds, and an increase in the disbursement
percentage (up to 82% of the expenditure categories) which was consistent with Peru’s country
financing parameters to provide adequate financing for selected activities; (iv) extension of the
Closing Date by six months to June 30, 2012 to allow SUNARP to complete critical Project
activities related to the migration of property registries to the new registry model and ensure
satisfactory outcome at exit; (v) changes to selected indicators of the results framework to ensure
closer alignment of the contribution of Project-financed activities to the achievement of the
Project Development Objective as described in Section 1.3; and (vi) revisions to the Project
Annual Operating Plans and Procurement Plans as a result of the above changes (See Annex).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.     The Project’s purpose was systematically aligned with the Government’s
decentralization policy agenda. At the time of its design, the Project was meant to support
COFOPRI and SUNARP in their formalization efforts. In particular, the Project aimed at
supporting COFOPRI and SUNARP in expanding the property consolidation achievements into
both regional and municipal subnational entities.

23.      The overall design of the project was well conceived, yet it did not include the
contingencies of the external political factors. The Project may have not properly assessed that
the institutional arrangements necessary for the carrying out of project activities by COFOPRI,
SUNARP and IGN would be subject to external political factors that could affect project
implementation. The Project may have underestimated the potential risks that it would face
during the implementation of key project activities. Furthermore, the Project was approved with
inappropriate or non-existent baselines and targets. The following are key issues related to project
design, along with its main strengths and shortcomings:

24.     The Project’s design incorporated lessons learned from previous Bank operations
and research findings. The project was a continuation of a preceding successful Bank operation
(Urban Property Rights Project, UPRP – Loan No. 4384-PE). The Project had similar objectives
in regards to using formalization as a driver for social inclusion and economic growth. However,
it was designed to expand the benefits of the UPRP under a decentralized management structure.
In particular, the Project financed qualitative and quantitative studies -including surveys and
focus groups- in order to better understand the socio-economic benefits and the long-term impact
of property formalization, including follow-up surveys and studies to compare results with the




                                                 6
ones carried out under the UPRP. Lessons learned from the implementation of the UPRP (1999-
2004) were identified in the Project Document (PAD) and reflected in the Project’s design.

25.     The Project’s design was aligned to the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The
Project supported specific objectives of the 2002 Peru CAS –as updated by the CAS Progress
Report of 2004. The first pillar of the CAS aimed at laying the foundation for sustainable growth
and poverty reduction, and the third pillar aimed at strengthening governance and helping build
an accountable and efficient government that provides services accessible to all Peruvians. In
particular, the Project contributed to both purposes by (i) formulating and applying
comprehensive property rights policies; (ii) supporting municipalities’ formalization; and (iii)
developing municipalities’ cadasters.

26.      Given the major role of the formalization agenda in Peru, the Project was designed
explicitly as a part of a larger strategy that partially depended on the performance of
partner government agencies. The underlying logic of the Project at design was that the main
aspect of the PDO (create a National Real Property Registry-Cadaster System) could only be
fulfilled if, with Project support, SUNARP completed the registration process and migration to
the registry model of a significant portion of formalized properties in Peru (up to 5.6 million
properties out of approximately 11 million property titles). During project design it was
envisioned that the loan would finance slightly more than half of the total universe of registry
properties that needed to be transferred to the new model, with SUNARP assuming responsibility
for the migration of the remaining registries. While this interdependence was useful to fully
integrate the Project into the policy agenda during the project design, it also became problematic
when SUNARP’s short term strategy did not envision the completion of the registration process
under its responsibility. As a consequence of this interdependence, unless the migration of the
substantial portion of property registries was made, the full functionality of SUNARP’s registry
model would have been limited.

27.    The PAD indicated that the project met the regional criteria for readiness for
implementation.

2.2 Implementation

28.    The Project was approved by the Bank’s Board on March 14, 2006 and signed on
November 3, 2006. It was declared effective on February 1, 2007 following the entry into
cooperation agreements with SUNARP and IGN and the approval of the Operational Manual.

29.      The favorable institutional context that was in place at appraisal did not hold
throughout the Project’s cycle and negatively affected its implementation. The Presidential
elections held in 2006 led to changes in the political landscape that resulted in institutional
instabilities that had negative effects on the achievement of outcomes. Project implementation
was affected by a number of factors such as frequent turnover in the PCU, and a six-month period
of instability following the leadership changes in SUNARP during the project’s final year of
implementation. During the initial stages of implementation (2006-2009) the project was able to
prepare for contingencies thanks to a close coordination between the task team and the Borrower.
Despite not being able to resolve the critical issues that arose in relation to the activities to be
implemented by SUNARP, the task team was proactive in proposing actions to mitigate these
developments and ensure the sustainability of activities following Project closure.

30.     Changes in the legal framework regarding property rights created additional delays
in project implementation. The project became effective as of January 31, 2007, but suffered


                                                 7
delays in the implementation of major components due to the passage of Law No.28923 which:
(i) returned the authority to title state land in urban areas to COFOPRI; and (ii) called for the
merger between COFOPRI and the Programa Especial de Titulación de Tierras (PETT) for rural
land formalization. The new internal legal framework (passing of Law No. 28923) required that
the Project Feasibility Study as originally envisaged under Component 2 of the project be
modified and resubmitted for approval to the MEF and the Presidency of the Council of Ministers
(PCM). This also required an Amendment to the Loan Agreement in order to align the project
with the new legal framework, recognizing the key role of the Executing Agency (COFOPRI) as
the institution in charge of formalization and titling, while local governments (municipalities)
would be involved in capacity building activities through participation/cooperation agreements.
As a result, project procurement and disbursements experienced significant delays during the first
year of implementation.

31.      Despite delays in the configuration of the PCU team, the Project accelerated its
execution during Calendar Year (CY) 2008. During the first quarter of CY08, most of the
programmed project activities were executed following the completion of Participation
Agreements between COFOPRI and six districts. Additionally, various municipalities entered
into agreements for the provision of cadaster services for local governments. Project components
related to property rights policies and registry, and credit culture benefits were also strengthened
and prioritized. Major setbacks in project implementation occurred during the first semester of
2009 due to high PCU turnover and vacancies (9 out of 20 positions), including the resignation of
the Project’s second Coordinator in less than a year. During the 2nd semester of CY09, the project
made significant progress with an increase in implementation activities for Components 1 and 4,
as well as a managerial renewal in COFOPRI and the PCU. This new environment substantially
reduced the turnover in the PCU thereby providing stability to its operations. The progress in
project execution was closely related to the timely implementation of the action plan agreed upon
during the mid-term review. By the end of CY09, disbursements of loan proceeds stood at 45%.

32.     One of the main setbacks to Project implementation was created by the need for a
high number of individual contracts and the lack of a standardized due diligence system.
During the execution of the Project, between 2008 and 2010, the land titling system applied to
this project required a large number of consultants working in the field for COFOPRI across
several departments. A total of 717 consultants were hired to fill a broad range of positions. In
May 2010, the PCU reported irregularities to the Task Team, which in turn, reported to the
Department of Institutional Integrity (INT) the findings of an internal procurement post review
(IPR). It was found that some of the consultants hired had presented false information on their
CVs, misrepresenting their education credentials in their job applications. These findings
prompted the Task Team leader (TTL) to advise the Borrower to review all 717 contracts to
verify the information provided by the consultants hired under the bank-funded project.
COFOPRI formed a special committee to review the files and consult with the issuing institutions
to confirm the veracity of the diplomas and/or certificates contained in the CVs of 618
consultants with contracts as of November 8, 2008. COFOPRI found that 78 consultants
presented false documents with their CVs, amounting to 12.6% of all consultants with ongoing
contracts with the Project.

33.    As a result of Bank supervision efforts, the task team proposed a solution that
allowed for a smooth continuation of project implementation. In close coordination with
procurement and financial management staff, the Task Team worked with the Borrower, MEF,
and MVCS, to find a solution that would not derail project implementation. During the 2nd
semester of 2010 and 1st semester of 2011, the Project made significant progress with the
implementation of all components according to the Annual Operating Plan. The contract with a


                                                 8
consulting firm in charge of implementing program activities envisaged under Component 3 (new
property registration model operational and 5.8 million of property records migrated to the new
model) was signed. Activities under this contract sought to create a public registry information
system that was secure and reliable, and that provided accessible and quality services.

34.      In addition, the Task Team’s proactive actions allowed the timely identification of
potential contingencies that could affect the implementation of Project activities. On June
24th, 2011, the Project was restructured to ensure achievement of project objectives as described
in its Annual Operating and Procurement Plans. The restructuring proposed a change in the costs
of the individual components in order to support the completion of COFOPRI’s titling activities
in selected areas where substantial demand for formalization and cadaster services had been
detected. In total, US$1 million was shifted from Components 1, 3 and 4 to Component 2. Also,
the geographic scope of the Project was modified accordingly in the Annual Operating Plan and
the Government took over responsibilities for some activities/areas using its own resources. The
closing date was extended from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012, in order to enable the
completion of critical Project activities under Components 3 and 4, and thereby ensure the
achievement of the desired project outcomes.

35.      However, disagreements between SUNARP and the contractor during the execution
of digitalization and migration activities generated delays in the activity’s overall
implementation. The administration of SUNARP that took over in August 2011 raised concerns
over the performance of the contractor in the migration of 5.8 million property records to the new
registry model. Furthermore, the contract for the implementation of this activity had become
politicized in the public arena following a congressional inquiry into the leadership of the
previous superintendent. These challenges were compounded by the fact that during the design of
the project, SUNARP had not made an accurate assessment of its technological capacity, and
agreed on an implementation calendar that exceeded the capacity of its systems. The situation
resulted in frequent collapses of SUNARP’s servers, bottlenecks from the contractor’s side as its
installed registry input capacity exceeded that which SUNARP could receive, and the
impossibility of the contractor’s delivery of the agreed upon number of registries.

36.      Despite various efforts, the contract for the digitalization and migration was
cancelled with significant impacts in the achievement of the PDO. With the purpose of
further exploring the issues raised by SUNARP, in October 2011 a Bank mission held meetings
with representatives of the contractor, SUNARP, COFOPRI, and the PCU in order to discuss the
steps needed to resolve the existing issues and keep moving towards the successful
implementation of the activities envisioned under the contract. The Superintendent of SUNARP
reaffirmed the institutional commitment to finding quick solutions to outstanding issues related to
SUNARP’s counterpart financing, the technical difficulties that arose in the process of migrating
entries to the new model registry, and the continuity of the batch migration process.

37.     The Bank stressed to the new SUNARP authorities that the component activities
implemented by the institution were essential to the achievement of the project objective of
consolidating property rights in Peru, as it represented the culmination of over 15 years of state
policy supported by several Peruvian governments in which investments of up to US $34 million
had been made. Despite multiple discussions in the months following the supervision mission,
SUNARP –following the legal counsel of an independent law firm- prepared an amicable
termination of the property registry migration contract subject to the Bank’s no objection.

38.    With an amicable termination of the contract being reached, the Task Team
acknowledged the serious impact this represented for the achievement of the PDO. The number


                                                9
of property registries delivered upon termination (600,000) would represent slightly more than
10% of the total programmed migration of 5.8 million records established during the Project's
restructuring. However, a migration of property registries through a “batch process? commenced
before project closing accounted for an additional 2.8 million records migrated achieving a total
of 56% of the total end target.

39.     Project implementation was rated satisfactory throughout most of the life of the project.
However, it was downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory during the final quarter of
implementation when activities related to the migration of property registries became clearly
unachievable. The amount that remained undisbursed from loan funds for the property registries
migration was USD$ 4,039,702 out of the allocated total for Non-consulting services. In total, an
amount equal to US$ 5,852,647.10 million dollars of loan resources was cancelled.

40.      The institutional commitment of Project actors, along with their managerial
leadership, achieved outstanding results throughout components. Aside from the
administrative and political problems that affected the Project, through the clarity of their mission
and institutional commitments, IGN and COFOPRI achieved important results in the
implementation of Components 3 and 4, respectively. Both institutions spearheaded the operation
of the country´s geodetic network and the creation of a culture of formalization. In the specific
case of IGN, during early project stages the establishment of 14 permanent monitoring GPS
stations was identified as the end target. However, thanks to IGN´s celerity and efficiency in
resource management and technological advances, the number of tracking stations that were
installed was increased to 45 stations (this target was set in the restructuring of the project). For
COFOPRI, the areas of intervention led by Component 4 made significant progress in the culture
of formalization, particularly with secondary level students, as confirmed by the Project´s impact
assessment study.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

41.     The M&E framework design and implementation has been rated as moderately
satisfactory. The project’s results framework contained performance indicators for the PDO and
each individual component. A number of the PDO and outcome indicators formulated were
effectively revised or dropped during project restructuring with the purpose of aligning the
contribution of individual Project activities more closely with the achievement of the PDO.
However, the Project was approved with some inappropriate or non-existent baselines and targets
which slightly affected the monitoring of outcomes during implementation.

42.     To prepare the progress reports required by the Loan Agreement, COFOPRI developed a
solid M&E system that fed the Bank´s own systems. PDO and intermediate results indicators
were closely monitored during implementation support missions and accurately reported in ISRs.
Furthermore, the project’s PCU successfully oversaw essential activities designed to effectively
measure outcomes such as studies to verify the consistency of SUNARP databases, consultancies
to estimate titling costs, studies by the ESAN University to estimate cadaster impact on
municipalities, an independent study on territorial management tools and an impact evaluation
study to assess the impact of the project on poverty and other welfare indicators.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

43.      Project procurement was considered satisfactory or moderately satisfactory throughout
project implementation. Biddings and regular procurement processes were done following strict



                                                 10
Bank guidelines and posed no threat to the implementation of Project activities. On the other hand,
according to the Section 3.03 (c) (ii) of the Loan Agreement, the project was required to furnish
to the Bank, not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year, a procurement audit. This
requirement was not met by the Project for the years 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, as the process
was conducted by CGR (Contraloría General de la República) and resulted in unsuccessful
bidding processes for each of the respective years. However, taking into account that the process
was not conducted by the Project, the Procurement rating was not lowered.

44.      Project Financial Management (FM) was considered satisfactory or moderately
satisfactory throughout project implementation. Quarterly financial monitoring reports and
yearly audits were submitted on time and were acceptable to the Bank. Minor errors and
inconsistencies found during FM supervision missions were properly addressed by the Client and
did not impact the outcome and controls of the Project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

45.     Currently, there are no planned -or identified- follow up operations. During the final
implementation support mission, and the Implementation Completion and Results Report
discussions, the Bank emphasized to the Borrower that the sustainability of the Project was
dependent on the continuance of COFOPRI as the lead agency in charge of preventing the return
to informality, as well as the long-term modernization process of SUNARP. The commitment of
both institutions to such mandates will be key to the sustainability of the Project´s development
outcome.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

46.      The original objective of the Project maintained its relevance over time. The system was
expected to enhance the welfare of real property owners and facilitate access to economic
opportunities. Even though the Project was not conceived to eliminate all forms/causes of
informal tenure, it was expected to reduce the negative impacts of informality and discourage
further informality by consolidating the legal security of property rights, completing conversion
of informal tenure, and building capacity to address its causes through strategic partnerships
between various levels of government and key stakeholders in the private sector and civil society.
The objective was –and still is- aligned with the country policy agenda (i.e. strengthening public
sector capacity at the subnational level). In addition, the objective remains relevant for the current
Bank’s Country Partnerships Strategy for Fiscal Year (FY) 2012-2016, namely for the Strategic
Objective of “Connecting the Poor to Services and Markets? and “Improved Public Sector
Performance for Greater Inclusion?.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

47.      Overall PDO. In the original Project design, the PDO was to be measured against six
Key Indicators which were subsequently reduced to two: (i) low formalization and cadaster costs
for GoP (Project average titling unit cost in US Dollars); and (ii) increased number of integrated
real property cadaster and registry records (number of property registry records under a new
registry model). The Project was moderately satisfactory at achieving its PDO when one takes
into consideration the achievement of most of its outcome indicators and the substantial gains and
success of the activities implemented across project components.


                                                 11
48.      The task team acknowledges that the Project suffers when measuring the achievement of
the PDO against its indicator for the “increased number of integrated real property cadaster and
registry records under a new registry model?. At project closing in June 2012, only 10% of the
target goal had been achieved, with the migration of 600,000 property records out the project’s
universe of 5,823,770. However, building on activities that started to be implemented before
project closing, the project had reached the migration of 3.4 million records as of October 31,
2012. This amount translates to approximately 58% of the total PDO indicator target,
representing a critical mass of registries that are key to achieving the consolidation of property
rights recognition and protection around a national integrated registry-cadaster system. The
critical mass of 3.4 million property records migrated is substantial enough to mainstream the
new registry model as it exceeds 25% of the estimated total of property records, and relates to the
properties in Lima-Callao, the most active and valuable property market in the country.

49.      One of the Project´s main objectives was associated with the recognition by households
of their rights and need to register property. In terms of impact, there is strong and significant
evidence found in the Project’s Impact Evaluation Study (see Annex 3 for details) to conclude
that this has been the case. This especially holds true in the registration of improvements to
properties, where the project helped to increase the level of secondary registration by over 32%
according to a differences-in-differences methodology. With respect to the measurement of the
value of formalization and cadaster costs, there are two ways in which this can be calculated: (i)
from the GoP perspective which includes all administrative costs; and (ii) from the users’ point of
view which includes their out of pocket expenditures. For GoP calculations, despite the technical
complications associated with measuring this indicator, the project´s internal calculations
estimated this value at US$110 (US$10 over the ceiling determined by the project). The impact
evaluation demonstrated that from the users’ point of view the registration cost per property was
reduced by S/19.15 from a S/70 baseline.

50.       The Project successfully achieved most of its intermediate outcome indicators and their
target values, detailed in Annex 2. Out of the project’s 13 intermediate outcome indicators across
4 components, 7 of the indicators achieved –or surpassed- their end targets. The operation was
successful in meeting the objectives of enhancing the welfare of real property owners and
facilitating their access to economic opportunities through the issuing of over 300,000 property
titles, the formalization of approximately 336,000 lots and the registering of over 540,000
properties across 10 regions. Furthermore, the Project successfully reached over 200,000 people
(adults and high-school students alike) as part of its credit and registry culture promotion
campaigns.

51.      Despite the obstacles and challenges faced during its implementation, and the failure to
satisfactorily meet the end target for the migration of property registries, the operation made
positive changes towards the consolidation of a decentralized and sustainable real property rights
system that facilitates access to property titles for the Peruvian population. Furthermore, the
operation helped support the decentralization program of the GoP through the institutional
strengthening of participating municipalities.




5
    (dif-dif= 19.1***; PSM = 26.1***)




                                                12
52.      An increase in the collection of property taxes in participating municipalities became an
unintended outcome of the Project. According to a study 6 undertaken at the time of project
closing, municipalities that benefitted from Project activities targeted at building their municipal
cadaster were able to increase the number of registered properties and considerably increased
their overall tax collection in 2011. Among those municipalities are Pampas de Hospital,
Bellavista, San Juan de la Virgen, Oxapampa, Castilla and Picsi. In some municipalities where
the cadaster was highly underdeveloped or inexistent, the study also projected potential increases
in the collection of property taxes of up to 2,000%. In sum, extensive gains were achieved under
the components for Decentralized Formalization and Cadaster Services, and Credit and Registry
Culture Promotional.

3.3 Efficiency

53.      The main objective of the Project was to improve the access of the Peruvian population to
services associated with the registration of property rights. This has been achieved as Project
findings point to an increase of 10% (PSM) 7 on households that reported "all" their register
related actions, with registration of second actions reporting an increase of 32% (diff-diff).

54.     These increases brought record improvements to the lives of property owners. First, an
estimated improvement in property value near S / 8,284 (US$3226) or an equivalent of 20.3% of
the average value reported in surveys, was estimated according to the Hedonic Price methodology
used in the Impact Evaluation. This value is 3.5 times higher than the expected value of the
Economic and Financial analysis at the beginning of the Project. Other results include increased
legal security, which translated to owners increased willingness to invest in their properties by an
additional 7%. Additionally, the number of households in unsuitable conditions has been reduced
by 9%, among other associated effects of the project on poverty as understood in terms of basic
needs unmet.

55.     Measuring poverty according to income, the project had null or insignificant effects.
However, according to the sampling methodology used in the Project´s impact assessment, it
could be argued that the effects of the project on poverty may be seen in the medium term, where
the project could have a significant impact through the increase of S/1,612 per household per year.
This is partly due to property titling which provides for greater family stability and an overall
better position to weather economic cycles.

56.     The results above, along with the issuing of over 300,000 property titles, the
formalization of approximately 336,000 lots and the registering of over 540,000 properties across
10 regions, suggest that the project has had a significant economic and social impact. See
Annexes 2 and 3 for details.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory



6
 Estimación de los Impactos del Catastro en las Municipalidades, Organismo de Formalización de la
Propiedad Informal, COFOPRI, 2012.

7
    Dif in Dif estimation for this indicator was not significant.




                                                         13
57.     The Project´s impact assessment demonstrates significant results with regards to the
culture of formalization and the benefits of the Project on the value of property and the overall
quality of life of the population intervened. However, the fact that Project indicators related to
the PDO were not met adequately, along with the administrative irregularities that led to the fraud
investigation, suggest a Moderately Satisfactory rating. This rating supports a further evaluation
of the lessons to be learned with regards to the design of indicators, institutional arrangements
and project monitoring.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

58.      Previous studies on the benefits of real property (De Soto, 1987) in Peru would suggest
that the project has indeed achieved a direct impact on poverty and social development given the
causal relationship between housing improvements and the reduction of poverty rates. The
Project´s impact assessment shows that this relation was important for improvements in
households. However, for this particular case, the results on access to public services, education
and health were marginal or non-existent. Similar results were found for the access to credit and
the development of a formal housing market.

59.     In terms of access to public services, a positive relationship between the formalization of
property and access to sewage services has been identified, especially in homes formalized for a
longer period of time 8. With regards to education, although no impact was established on new
attendances, the results show a correlation with a decrease in falling behind in school 9.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

60.      The Real Property Rights Consolidation Project’s institutional development impact has
been substantial as it contributed toward the capacity to manage urban cadasters of COFOPRI,
as well as increasing its collection of property taxes in participating municipalities. Moreover,
the project has made some important contributions to the development of policy instruments, the
proposal of new institutional arrangements in the housing sector and the increase in technical
knowledge to strengthen capacity at all government levels. With respect to the National
Geographic Institute (IGN), the project greatly strengthened its capacity through the installation
of 45 permanent continuous monitoring GPS stations and 4,955 control points which were added
to the geodetic network. This has given IGN the capacity to provide geo-referencing services to
various government institutions and the tools to possibly provide geographical data services to
third parties, potentially creating a new source of revenue for the agency.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

61.     No beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshops were conducted specifically for
purposes of reviewing project performance. A study evaluating the project’s impact, with a
survey of over 3,600 households benefitted, has been delivered with some of its findings included


8
    dif-dif = +0.13* percentage points

9
    dif-dif = -0.12 ** percentage points




                                                14
throughout this document. The findings of the study are listed among the supporting documents
for the ICR in Annex 7.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

62.      There are several factors which indicate that the development outcomes achieved through
the Project are likely to be maintained and justify rating the risk as moderate. In particular: (i) the
municipalities that had cadasters put in place were able to increase their collection of property
taxes the following year, creating an incentive for them to maintain the system; (ii) the Project
has continued progressing after the completion of Bank-financed operations, demonstrating the
government has acquired the know-how to continue with the implementation of this activity
without Bank support; and (iii) SUNARP has confirmed its commitment and political will to
finish the migration of the remaining registries (approximately 7 million), as part of its short-term
strategy to be achieved with its own resources under a revised methodology that should ensure
better outcomes.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

63.      The Real Property Rights Consolidation Project intended to expand on the positive results
of the UPRP which had achieved an impressive target of issuing almost 1.135 million titles.
Prepared to take into account the lessons learned from the previous project, and looking to expand
the previous operation’s scope through the development of a coherent property rights policy
framework, the Real Property Rights Consolidation Project required the joint efforts of several
institutions at the central and local levels of government. COFOPRI and SUNARP were ideally
positioned to coordinate initiatives that could be articulated with lower levels of government.
Both institutions had developed an expertise under the UPRP that should have allowed them to
support the development of modern policies at a national level and apply them in municipal
jurisdictions.

64.      The Project as prepared was well-designed. However, the Bank may have underestimated
the risks that the Project would face during its implementation if the favorable institutional
context that was in place at appraisal were to change substantially throughout the Project’s
lifetime. This proved to be the case in the initial stages of project implementation when relations
between COFOPRI and the PCU delayed the implementation of activities and effectively placed
the project at risk of not reaching its objectives. During the last year of project implementation
new challenges affecting implementation surfaced as SUNARP went through a six-month period
of instability that saw its leadership change across the nomination of five Superintendents.

65.      Furthermore, the Project was approved with inappropriate or non-existent baselines and
targets. Four of the six PDO indicators identified in the PAD were dropped without baselines in
2011, with one of the indicators retained (low formalization and cadaster costs for GoP) being
revised in 2011 to change its baseline value. The lack of appropriate measurement data slightly
hindered the Project´s quality at entry, and affected monitoring of outcomes during
implementation.




                                                  15
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

66.     Overall, the actions taken by the Bank's team in monitoring the project at its different
stages was satisfactory. The Bank’s task team was praised in an internal INT report that
recognized the efforts in finding an effective resolution to the corruption issues that arose during
project implementation and suggested the team’s approach could be potentially used as a best
practice on Bank projects.

67.      There are two facts that suggest that Project oversight could have been tighter. The
Project received an upgrade from Unsatisfactory to Satisfactory in 2009 and was later
downgraded back to Moderately Satisfactory in 2010 as the project implementation team did not
apply concrete corrective measures as the Bank Team had suggested. Secondly, the number of
supervision field visits decreased, particularly since 2009. Following that year, the average time
between missions was slightly above 6 months, despite the fact that both Sector and Country
managers recommended closer oversight of the Project. However, an Independent Evaluation
report commissioned by the Borrower rated the Bank’s implementation support efforts as “highly
satisfactory?.

68.     Considering the case of alleged fraud filed in early 2010, the Project should have
received a lower rating in terms of Procurement and Monitoring and Evaluation. In fact, a rating
of Unsatisfactory would have raised a red flag in the Project and could have possibly triggered
follow-up actions on each of the contracts active or under evaluation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

69.      Given the Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry, and in the quality of Bank
supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory. This ICR, as
well as an internal INT report, recognizes the Bank’s task team efforts in finding an effective
resolution to the corruption issues raised during project implementation. The refund of the
amounts involved in the INT investigations were effected thanks to the close cooperation between
the Task Team and procurement and financial management staff. Despite periods of institutional
turmoil, the task team made continued efforts to ensure that project outcomes were achieved and
all prioritized activities were undertaken successfully.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

70.     The Government of Peru played a key role during project preparation showing high
levels of ownership and a strong commitment to the Project and the reforms it proposed. The
Project was seen as key to a government agenda that placed a high importance on developing
revenue generation capacity in the public sector, particularly at the municipal level. Due to the
relevance of its overarching themes, the Project was supported by the Presidency of the Council
of Ministers (PCM), MEF, MINJUS and MVCS who in different capacities supported the
implementation of the project and kept an open dialogue with the bank throughout the Project
cycle.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance



                                                16
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

71.      COFOPRI. The Project’s implementing agency, COFOPRI, was responsible for overall
Project management, monitoring and evaluation.              During the early stages of project
implementation, activities headed by COFOPRI suffered initial delays due to high PCU turnover
and vacancies. Internal structural issues also did not allow the PCU to fulfill its mandate
satisfactorily, resulting in frictions between the PCU and the administrative line units within
COFOPRI. However, by the project’s mid-term review most of these issues had been resolved
and COFOPRI successfully met the vast majority of project targets under its responsibility. It is
worth highlighting that the titling and cadaster activities under component 2 exceeded their end
targets months before project closing, as did most activities under the component focusing on
credit and registry culture promotion.

72.     Despite COFOPRI’s response being expeditious and proactive once the issues related to
irregular activities were identified, findings from the investigation uncovered serious
administrative weaknesses that could have potentially jeopardized the project. Unfortunately, the
irregularities that surfaced during implementation marred the project and its successes.

73.     IGN: The National Geographic Institute’s performance was exemplary. Project activities
under their responsibility were implemented in a timely and cost-efficient manner earning the
praise of the task team and Borrower.

74.     SUNARP: Cabinet shifts during the new government administration brought various
changes over a short timeframe to the Superintendent position of SUNARP. These changes
severely weakened its role as the main counterpart on the implementation of one of the project’s
most critical components. During a six-month period between October 2011 and March 2012,
SUNARP was led by three superintendents, one adjunct superintendent and one general manager
with provisional superintendent powers.          In this environment, the Task Team faced
implementation challenges that were severely hampered by the lack of continuity in SUNARP
leadership. SUNARP was not able to effectively accomplish the migration of registries under its
responsibility. This subsequently affected the full-fledged functionality of the registry model, thus
making impossible for the Project to accomplish its objectives in full.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

75.    Considering the arguments made above, and the individual assessments made to all three
implementing agencies, the overall borrower performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

76.      Project designs should include all of the elements necessary to meet the development
objectives –or otherwise estimate operational risks accordingly. The Project’s development
outcomes partially depended on the performance of an outside element. Contrary to previously
agreed-to arrangements, during the implementation of Project activities SUNARP’s short-term
strategic plans changed and the completion of the registration process stopped being a priority. As
a result, the weak commitment of some ephemeral SUNARP administrations to the country’s
policy agenda ended up affecting the achievement of the Project’s PDO. As a lesson learned,
future operations should contemplate the sustainability of partnerships that can be strained by
high turnover in the leadership of a partner institution, and if finally included, assess the risks



                                                 17
associated with that interdependence. Activities implemented under the Project should be able to
guarantee the achievement of total project objectives.

77.      Projects involving Information and Communications Technology (ICT) activities
should require that all parties commit to robust standardized protocols beforehand. The
activity design did not contemplate the elaboration of a registry digitalization standard (protocol)
for cadaster data, which led to a heterogeneous process of digitalization that SUNARP could not
accept at its discretion, thereby causing a delay in the digitalization and migration process.
Furthermore, the project failed to identify how a “zero error? clause included in the contract could
have impeded the satisfactory delivery of consulting products for an activity of such a grand scale.
This lesson can be extended to other particular activities according to the stages and
characteristics of the project.

78.      Implementing a project with multiple executing units should require additional
agreements on Project governance structures. During the lifetime of the Project, the Bank
faced a number of challenges in dealing with multiple implementing units. The implementation of
the Project was led by a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) attached into COFOPRI for
administrative and budgetary purposes, yet some activities were commissioned to two other
agencies (SUNARP and IGN). When contingencies arose, the institutional arrangements were
found to be insufficient to coordinate all the parts responsible for the implementation of project
activities. A lesson learned from this experience is that it is difficult to promote inter- and intra-
institutional communication if the coordination risks have not been tackled through appropriate
agreements on project governance structures.

79.      Projects involving a high number of hirings should include some safeguards in
connection with the due diligence standards for hiring processes. The risk related to project
activities that would require a large amount of contracts was not addressed in the PAD. This
posed a considerable fiduciary risk that could have been managed through a proper due diligence
system for hiring contractors.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)     Borrower/implementing agencies

80.     COFOPRI has agreed with the Bank’s assessment of its performance and has suggested,
as lessons learned, the need to improve risk management and to properly identify baseline data
for purposes of adequately monitoring expected project results upon Project conclusion.

(a)    Cofinanciers
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                                 18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                  Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest
                                                                              Percentage of
Components                         (USD) in millions Estimate (USD) ) in
                                                                               Appraisal
                                      of dollars      millions of dollars
Component 1                                  .36                  .45              125%
Component 2                               21.21                23.53               111%
Component 3                               15.00                 6.83                46%
Component 4                                 2.05                1.43                70%
Component 5                                 3.03                3.68               121%
Total Baseline Cost                       41.66                35.92                86%
Physical Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00      0.00
Price Contingencies
                                              0.00                0.00      0.00
Total Project Costs                           0.00                0.00
Front-end fee PPF                             0.00                0.00      0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                            0.00                0.06      0.00
Total Financing Required                     41.66               35.98


(b) Financing
                                                     Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                         Type of     Estimate      Estimate      Percentage of
Source of Funds
                                         Cofinancing (USD          (USD          Appraisal
                                                     millions)     millions)
 Borrower                                            16.60         16.84         101%
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                     25.00         19.07           76%
and Development




                                                19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

           PDO                          Revised PDO Indicators                          Project Output

• To consolidate property     • Low formalization and cadaster costs for       • Project average titling unit
  rights recognition and        GoP (Project average titling unit cost in        cost estimated at USD
  protection in Peru            US Dollars).                                     110.02 according to 2011
  around a national                                                              study.
  integrated registry-        • Increased number of integrated real
  cadaster system.              property cadaster and registry records         • Through a manual
                                (Number of property registry records             digitalization and batch
• To enhance the welfare        under a new registry model).                     migration process, 3.4
  of property owners and                                                         million property registry
  facilitate access to                                                           records were migrated to the
  economic opportunities.                                                        new registry model.



                                Revised Results Indicators for Each                   Project Outputs
                                              Component
Component One:                • Diagnostic studies finalized (including        •   3 diagnostic studies
                                subjects like cost-benefit, credit practices       finalized in the topics of: (i)
Comprehensive Real              and land allocation).                              “survey to obtain
Property Rights Policies                                                           information on specific
Component.                    • Workshops held with key stakeholders               elements of the actual
                                on real property rights issues.                    universe of titled lots by
1.1 Diagnostic Studies.                                                            COFOPRI between 1996-
                              • Legal and regulatory reform proposals              2007?; (ii) “formalization
1.2 Strategic Partnerships.     identified, prepared and agreed upon on            of property and urban
                                real property rights, land administration          control?; and (iii) “granting
1.3 Legal and regulatory        and allocation, investment and credit              of available free land in the
    proposals                   promotion and inter-institutional                  State’s possession?.
                                coordination.
                                                                               •   Workshops were held in the
                                                                                   cities of Piura, Cajamarca,
                                                                                   Lima, Tarapoto, Arequipa,
                                                                                   Huaraz, Chiclayo, Trujillo
                                                                                   and Huancayo with the
                                                                                   participation of entities
                                                                                   involved in property
                                                                                   formalization, civil society,
                                                                                   private sector and state
                                                                                   governments.

                                                                               •   2 agreed upon Legal and
                                                                                   regulatory reform proposals
                                                                                   made including the
                                                                                   resolution to create the
                                                                                   multi-sectorial commission


                                                20
                                Revised Results Indicators for Each            Project Outputs
                                           Component
                                                                            in charge of proposing
                                                                            reforms on issues relating
                                                                            to property rights

                                                                        •   International forum on
                                                                            “international experiences
                                                                            on policies for urban
                                                                            formalization? and local
                                                                            forum on “Peru: public
                                                                            policy and government
                                                                            challenges in cadaster and
                                                                            land management?.
Component Two:               • 80 Provincial Municipalities provided    •   307,913 titles (103% of
                               training on formalization services by        target) were issued by
Decentralized                  COFOPRI.                                     COFOPRI in the 10 regions
Formalization and Cadaster                                                  intervened by the Project:
Services Component.          • Approximately 400,000 lots formalized        Ancash,           Ayacucho,
                               by COFOPRI                                   Cajamarca, Lambayeque,
2.1 National Formalization                                                  La Libertad, Piura, Puno,
Strategy Subcomponent.       • Approximately 300,000 titles issued by       Cusco, Junin and Lima.
                               COFOPRI.
2.2 Municipal                                                           •   335,985       lots     were
Strengthening Programs       • COFOPRI’s Project Average titling unit       formalized (84% of target),
Subcomponent.                  costs not higher than $100 per title.        544,762 properties were
                                                                            cadastered (102% of target),
2.3 Municipal                • 56 District Municipalities provided          and 494,052 lots were
Formalization Plans            training on cadaster services by             diagnosed (83% of target)
Subcomponent.                  COFOPRI.                                     by COFOPRI in the
                                                                            regions: intervened by the
                             • Approximately 536,000 properties             Project.
                               cadastered by COFOPRI.
                                                                        •   Inter-institutional
                                                                            agreements were subscribed
                                                                            with      59     participating
                                                                            municipalities.

                                                                        •   195 workshops (348% of
                                                                            target) were held on
                                                                            cadaster formation.


Component Three:             • 5,823,000 million property registry      •   3.4 million Property
                               records under a new registry model.          registries were migrated to
National Real Property                                                      the new registry model
Registry-Cadaster Systems    • 45 permanent continuous monitoring           (58% of target) via a
Component.                     GPS stations installed.                      digitalization process
                                                                            (600,000 registries) and
3.1 Unified Real Property    • 4,955 control points added to geodetic       batch process (2.8 million


                                              21
                                Revised Results Indicators for Each               Project Outputs
                                           Component
Registry Subcomponent.          network.                                       registries).

3.2 National Integrated                                                    •   45 permanent continuous
Real Property Cadaster                                                         monitoring GPS stations
Information System                                                             were installed and 4,955
Subcomponent.                                                                  control points were added
                                                                               to the geodetic network by
                                                                               the IGN.

Component Four:               • 124,000 property owners and 102,000        •   143,534 and 85,924 high
                                high school students reached by registry       school students reached by
Credit and Registry Culture     culture campaign.                              registry culture campaign.
Promotion Component.
                              • Satisfactory evaluation of cultural        •   A network of social
4.1 Communication and           appropriateness of formalization and           promoters was established
Public Education                cadaster services to indigenous peoples        in 5 regional offices for
Subcomponent.                   and women.                                     formalization culture
                                                                               activities.
4.2 Market-relevant       • 129,000 recently formalized owners use
Information Subcomponent.   real property exchange.                        •   The Real Property
                                                                               Exchange was created and
                              • 8,000 micro-entrepreneurs and 99,000           launched. COFOPRI is
                                high school students obtain access to          exploring ways to
                                credit information.                            maximize its full potential
                                                                               as it hasn’t been made
                              • 855 community leaders and 60,000 high          fully operational.
                                school students reached.
                                                                           •   9,156 micro-entrepreneurs,
                                                                               85,924 high school
                                                                               students and 123,503
                                                                               individuals obtained access
                                                                               to credit information.

                                                                           •   85,924 high school
                                                                               students and 890
                                                                               community leaders were
                                                                               reached by the campaign
                                                                               for the benefits of
                                                                               formalization.

                                                                           •   Agreements with the
                                                                               Ministry of Education
                                                                               were reached to include
                                                                               registry and credit culture
                                                                               in school curricula.

                                                                           •   Advertising and radio
                                                                               campaigns on the benefits


                                               22
Revised Results Indicators for Each         Project Outputs
           Component
                                          of formalization and
                                          property registry with a
                                          reach of over 100,000
                                          families were
                                          implemented.

                                      •   9 registry fairs were
                                          developed in the regions of
                                          Piura, La Libertad,
                                          Ancash, Lima and
                                          Lambayeque.




             23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
The Project’s Impact Evaluation study used three different methodologies to identify the impacts
of the project: (i) Difference in Difference (Dif-in-Dif), to compare the effects in three groups of
land properties: those registered in 2000, as a contra factual; those registered during 2008-2009 as
factual group 1; and those registered on 2011 as factual group 2; ii) Propensity Score Matching
(PSM), to compare the effects between land properties registered in 2000 with those registered
after 2008; and iii) Hedonic prices, to study the implicit prices and costs associated to the
registration of a lot.

The final sample size used for the evaluation was of 3697 properties: 304 from the 2000
registration, 488 from the 2008-2009 registration, 2060 from the 2010 registration and 845 from
the 2011 registration. The sample was designed with a 2.5% margin error and 95% of confidence
interval. The following tables present the main results of the impact indicators of the Project, as
well as the variables used to measure poverty.




                                                24
25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                   Responsibility
Names                            Title                                Unit
                                                                                   /Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
David F. Varela                  Task Team Leader                   LCSPS
Diego Dorado                     Task Team Leader (ICR)             LCSPS
Jorge Luis Archimbaud            Senior Country Officer             LCSPS
Rosmary Marcela Cornejo          E T Consultant                     LCSPS
Tanya Gupta                      Senior Resource Management Off CFRPA
Nelly Ikeda                      Financial Management Analyst       LCSFM
Francisco Lazzaro                E T Consultant                     LCSPS
Lourdes Consuelo Linares         Sr Financial Management Specialist LCSFM
Javier Julio Madalengoitia       Consultant                         LCSPS
Patricia E. Mendez               Senior Executive Assistant         LCSPR
Aldo Ernesto Ortiz Anderson      Consultant                         LCSHE
Rodrigo Palacios                 Consultant                         LCSPS
Sheila Grandio                   Consultant                         LCSPS
Francisco Rodriguez              Procurement Specialist             LCSPT
Evelyn Villatoro                 Senior Procurement Specialist      EASR1
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
        Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including travel
                                         No. of staff weeks
                                                                         and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                          58.73
  FY04                                                                         105.60
  FY05                                                                         164.92
  FY06                                                                         122.97
  FY07                                                                          37.71
Total:                                                                         489.93
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                           0.00
  FY04                                                                           0.00
  FY05                                                                           0.00
  FY06                                                                           0.00
  FY07                                                                          32.82
  FY08                                                                         101.26
  FY09                                                                         142.46
  FY10                                                                          81.49
  FY11                                                                         106.78
  FY12                                                                          64.06
  FY13                                                                          52.19
Total:                                                                         581.05



                                            26
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Unofficial translation of Borrower’s comments:

The main objective of the Real Property Rights Consolidation Project was to consolidate a
decentralized and sustainable quality real property rights system that facilitated access for the
Peruvian population. This system would enhance the welfare of real property owners and
facilitate access to economic opportunities.

Even though the Project could not eliminate all forms/causes of informal tenure, it would reduce
the negative impacts of informality and discourage further informality by consolidating the legal
security of property rights, completing conversion of informal tenure, and building capacity to
address its causes through strategic partnerships of various levels of Government and key
stakeholders in the private sector and civil society. The project would also provide support to the
decentralization program through the institutional strengthening of Participating Municipalities.

However, as expressed in the ICR prepared by the Bank, although the Project was fundamentally
well structured and planned; it underestimated the risks and the favorable environment present
during project preparation. The Project was affected by the changes in government in 2006 and
the instability of the main institutions involved with the Project, which saw revolving leadership
throughout the course of the Project affecting its development, especially in the case of SUNARP
and its performance as co-implementer of Project activities.

At the same time, deficiencies in identifying baseline data for the purposes of project monitoring
have hampered the adequate evaluation of results upon Project conclusion. This is reflected in
the figures for results by component, and especially in component three (National Real Property
Registry-Cadaster Systems Component) where SUNARP was unable to reach its objectives
despite all the efforts made.

The methodology used by the World Bank for the preparation of the ICR is very objective as it
revolves around the comparison of expected outcomes, and those that were effectively reached, as
well as the baseline values determined at project beginning, and the values found at the end.
Hence, the result of the evaluation is very objective and does not leave space for an alternative
interpretation. Given this, we effectively conclude that the Project’s performance was not the
most “satisfactory? despite some components being efficiently implemented, and at times,
surpassing its expected targets.

Original Borrower comments:

El Proyecto de Consolidación de los Derechos de Propiedad Inmueble tuvo como finalidad
consolidar un sistema de derechos de propiedad descentralizado y sostenible, de calidad que
facilite el acceso a la población peruana mejorando su acceso a las facilidades y oportunidades
económicas.

Aun cuando no estuvo previsto que el proyecto elimine las causas de la informalidad; debía
reducir el impacto negativo de ella y desalentar futuras informalidades al consolidar los
derechos de propiedad a través de su intervención en varios niveles de gobierno y a través de
socios estratégicos; lo que además proporcionaría un soporte para el proceso de
descentralización y fortalecimiento de los gobiernos locales y regionales.



                                                27
Sin embargo, tal como el propio Informe de Cierre preparado por el banco Mundial lo expresa,
pese a que el proyecto estuvo fundamentalmente bien estructurado y planificado; se subestimaron
los riesgos y los entornos muy favorables existentes durante la fase de preinversión fueron muy
afectados por el cambio de gobierno del año 2006; y la inestabilidad de las principales
instituciones involucradas en el proyecto que vieron pasar sucesivas gestiones en el curso del
proyecto afectando su desarrollo, especialmente en el caso de SUNARP y su actuación como co-
implementador.

Asimismo, deficiencias en la determinación de las líneas de base para la medición del proyecto
han dificultado, a su finalización que pueda realizarse una adecuada evaluación de los
resultados; lo que se refleja en las cifras frías de resultados por componentes, en donde se
aprecia que especialmente el componente tres, sobre fortalecimiento del Registro de Predios
(SUNARP), no logro alcanzar sus objetivos pese a todos los esfuerzos realizados.

La metodología utilizada por el Banco Mundial para la preparación del Informe de Cierre es
muy objetiva y se centra en la comparación de los logros que estuvieron previstos, y los que
efectivamente se alcanzaron, así como en las líneas de base determinadas al inicio del proyecto,
con las alcanzadas al final; de manera que el resultado de la evaluación es muy objetivo y no
deja espacio para una interpretación alternativa; conforme a ello, efectivamente se concluye que
el desempeño general del proyecto no fue el mas satisfactorio’ pese a que algunos componentes
se realizaron muy eficientemente e incluso superaron las metas previstas.




                                              28
Annex 6 Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not Applicable.




                                     29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

“Servicios de Evaluación de Impacto del Proyecto de Consolidación de los Derechos de
Propiedad Inmueble –PCDPI-, Apoyo Consultoría, Lima, Noviembre, 2012.

“Informe de Evaluación del Prestatario – Proyecto de Consolidación de los Derechos de
Propiedad Inmueble?, Lima, Noviembre, 2012.

“Estimación de los Impactos del Catastro en la Municipalidades?. Universidad ESAN. Lima,
Junio 2012.

“World Development Report, Chapter IV, Property Rights, 2005, p.81.? World Bank Group.

“Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Loan in the amount of USD 25 Million to the
Republic of Peru for a Real Property Rights Consolidation Project, dated February 16, 2006?.
World Bank Group.

“Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report – PERU, 2004? World Bank Group.

“Implementation Supervision Reports 2006-2012?.




                                            30
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33465R
                         80°W                                                                                        75°W                                                                                        70°W
0°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0°




                                               ADO
                                          EC U AD OR
                                                   R                                                                 Arcadia                                     LOMBIA
                                                                                                                                                              CO LO MBIA

                                                                                                                                ap




                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                   o
                                                                                                                                                                  Putumayo
                                                                                                                 Puerto Curaray




                                                                                                Co
                                                                                                  rr i


                                                                                                             Tig
                                                                                                      en


                                                                                                                 r
                                                                                                       tes


                                                                                                                 e
                             To
                           Machala
           Tumbes                                                                                                                                                                     ma




                                                                                                                                                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                                            zona
                                                           Santiago
                                                                                                                                                                                                s
         TUMBES                                                                                                                                Iquitos




                                                                                     taza
                                                                                                                                                                                       Caballococha
                                                    A
                                                    AM


                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A ZI L
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BR AZI
                                                                                    Pas
                                  Loja
                                                                                                           LORETO                                                         var
                                                                                                                                                                              i
                                                      MA




          Talara                                                           Ayar Manco                                                                                  Ya
                                                       AZ




             Sullana
                                                         ZO




5°S               PIURA                      San                                   Maraño                                                                                                                                                                       5°S




                                                                                                                                                li
                                                                                         n
                                                          ON




                                                                                                                                              ya
                                             Ignacio                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                                             Uc
                  Piura
                                                            N
                                         CAJ
                           A




                                                        A
                                                        ASS




                                                                                                      Yurimaguas                    Tamánco
                                 n
                                          AM




                                                 Chachapoyas
                                                                                 Moyobamba
                                      d




                                                                                 Tarapoto
             LAMBA-
                                             AR




                                                                         SAN                                                                                                                                         PERU
                                         e




              YEQUE             Chiclayo            A
                                                C




                                                                        MARTIN
                                             s




                                                    Cajamarca
                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                     Cruzeiro
                                                                                                                                                      do Sul

                                  Trujillo                                                   Santa
                                                                                             Lucia
                                   LIBERTA
                                   LIBERTAD
                                LA LIBERTAD                                                                                        Pucallpa
                                                                                          Hu




                                                         Nevada Sihuas
                                                                                            alla




                                                       Hueascarán
                                                                                                 ga




                                         Chimbote       (6768 m)
                                                        ANCASH                                         Tingo María
                                                                                                                                   Uc
                                                                                                                                     ay




                                                                                          HUANUCO
                                                                                                                                       ali




                                                         Huaraz
                                                                       Nevada                          Huánuco
10°S                                                                  Yerupaja                                                                                                                                                                                 10°S
                                                                      (6634 m)                                                              UCAYAL?
                                                                         Goyllarisquizga                PASCO                                                                       Purús
                                                                                                 Cerro de
                                                                                                   Pasco
                  PA C IF I C
                                                                                    M




                                                        Huacho               Sayán                                                                              Atalaya
                                                                                                                     Satipo
                                                                           LIMA                         La
                  OCEAN
                                                                                                                                       Ap




                                                                                                                                                                                              MADRE
                                                                                            t




                                                                                                        Oroya
                                                                                                                 JUNIN
                                                                                                                                       uri




                                               CALLAO
                                                                                                                                                          Uru
                                                                                                                                          m




                                                                                                                                                                                              DE DIOS
                                                                                                n




                                                                                                                                        ac




                                                                                                                                                              ba




                                                                                                                     Huancayo                                                         M
                                                                                     LIMA                                                                                              ad
                                                                                                                                                                mba




                                                                       Callao                                                                                                             r   ed
                                                                                                       s




                                                                                                                                                                                                eD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Puerto
                         PROVINCE OF LIMA*                                                                                                                                                           ios
                                                                                                                                    Ayna               CUSCO                        Sintuya                      Maldonado
                                                                                                           .




                                                                                                 Huancavelica                                       Quillabamba          Nevada
                                                                                                           HUANCA-                      Ayacucho                        Salcantay
     0           100            200            300 Kilometers                                                                                                           (6271 m)                Lanlacuni                     Astillero
                                                                                                            VELICA                             A                                  Cusco
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bajo
                                                                                                                                                    PU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     In a




                                                                                       Pisco                                                                                                                           mb
                                                                                                                                                                 Abancay                        Nudo                        a ri
                                                                                                                                                         RI
                                                                                                                              AY




     0                    100                   200 Miles                                                                                                                                     Ausandate
                                                                                                           Ica                                                M                                                PUNO
                                                                                                                                                                  AC                          (6384 m)
                                                                                                                               AC




                                                                                                       ICA                                                                                                                                      To San
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Buenaventura
                                                                                                                                       UC




                                                                                                                              Puquio

                         PER U                                                                   Caballas               Nazca                   O                                                                                                              15°S
                                                                                                                                            H




                                                                                                                                                                Alca               Cailloma
                                                                                                                                                                        Nevada                                                               To
                       SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                        San Juan                                                                                           Juliaca                        Carabuco
                                                                                                                                                                                  An




                                                                                                                                                                       Coropuna
                                                                                                                                                                       (6271 m)
                                                                                                                                                                                     de




                       REGION CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                                               Lago
                                                                                                                                                                                         s




                                                                                                                       Antiquipa                                                                              Puno                 Titicaca
                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                      AREQUIPA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                               M




                                                                                                                                            Atico                       Arequipa                                                                   La Paz
                                                                                                                                                                                                tn




                       RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                         Desaguadero
                                                                                                                                                                                                     s.




                       MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                   Mollendo
                       RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                   Moquega
                                                                                                                                                                                                           TACNA
                       REGION BOUNDARIES*                                                                                                                MOQUEGUA
                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Visviri
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               B OL I V IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IA
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tacna
         * Although it does not belong to any region,                                                                                                                                                                  To Belén
           the Province of Lima has the same status.                                                                 75°W                                                                        To Iquique           CHILE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FEBRUARY 2013
