Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7368-PE 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Real Property Rights Consolidation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated November 3, 2006 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7368-PE 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated November 3, 2006, between the REPUBLIC OF PERU 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) on June 15, 2002, the Borrower published Law No. 27755 (Real Property 
Registry Law
)
that sets forth the Borrower’s legal framework for a unified real property 
registration; 
(C) on July 20, 2002, the Borrower published Law No. 27783 (Decentralization 
Framework Law) that sets forth the Borrower’s legal framework for public administration 
decentralization; 
(D) on May 27, 2003, the Borrower published Law No. 27972 (the 
Municipalities Organic Law) that establishes the Municipalities’ (as hereinafter defined) 
responsibilities in the matters of local development, zoning and urbanism; 
(E) on July 21, 2004, the Borrower published Law No. 28294 (the National 
Integrated Cadastre System Law) that governs the integration of the standards, 
nomenclature and technical processes of different cadastre-generating entities at the 
national and local levels; and 
(F) on November 17, 2004, the Borrower published Law No. 28391 
(Formalization of the Informal Property Law) that sets forth the Borrower’s strategy and 
policy for the formalization of informal property; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Borrower or the Guarantor on the goods or services to be financed under 
the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of requiring economy 
and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if the Bank 
shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive 
or otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust 
the percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
in the Loan Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.” 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by 
replacing the words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, 
fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Advisory Committee” (
Comité Asesor
)
means the advisory committee 
referred to in Section 3.05 (c) of this Agreement; 
(b) 
“Annual Operation Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Section 
3.08 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“COFOPRI” means the Borrower’s National Commission for the 
Formalization of Informal Property (
Co
misión de Formalización de la Propiedad 
Informal),
 the Project’s executing entity
 
established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Legislative Decree No.
 
803 (the Promotion of Access to Formal Property Law) as 
amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(d) 
 “District Municipality” means 
Municipalidad Distrital
,
any of the 
political subdivisions of a Provincial Municipality (as hereinafter defined) established 
pursuant to Articles 2 and 3 of the Municipalities Organic Law; 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, consultants’ 
services, training and operating costs referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(g) 
“FMR” means each financial monitoring report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(h) 
“IGN” means the Borrower’s National Geographic Institute (
Instituto 
G
eográfico Nacional
), established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s  Law No. 27292, dated 
June 23, 2000 and published on June 27, 2000, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(i) 
“IGN Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.02 (c), as the same may be amended from time to time in a manner satisfactory 
to the Bank; 
(j) 
 “Implementing Entity” means either COFOPRI, SUNARP or IGN (as 
the case may be), and “Implementing Entities” means all of the above; 
(k) 
“Management Committee” (
Comité de Gestión
)
means the committee 
established pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“MEF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy and Finance; 
(m) 
“Municipality” means any District Municipality or Provincial 
Municipality (as hereinafter defined); 
Page  5
-
4
-
(n) 
“Operational Manual” means  the manual for the operation of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; 
(o) 
“Participating Municipalities” means any of the Municipalities set forth 
in the Operational Manual and any other Municipality that may be added from time to 
time by agreement between the Borrower, through COFOPRI and the Bank in addition to 
or in substitution of the original Municipalities; 
(p) 
“Participation Agreement” means any agreement referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;  
(q) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit referred to in Section 3.05 (d) 
of this Agreement; 
(r) 
 
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators set forth in the 
Operational Manual for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the attainment of 
Project objectives; 
(s) 
 “Procurement Plan” means the COFOPRI’S  procurement plan, dated 
January 27, 2006 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.03 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding eighteen (18) month 
periods of Project implementation; 
(t) 
“Project Area” means the area of the Participating Municipalities; 
(u) “Provincial 
Municipality” 
means 
Municipalidad Provincial
,
any of the 
political subdivisions of the territory of the Borrower established pursuant to Articles 2 
and 3 of the Municipalities Organic Law; 
(v) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
(w) “SNIP” 
means 
Sistema Nacional de Inversión Pública
,
the Borrower’s 
national system of public investment created and operating under the Borrower’s Law 
No. 27293, dated June 28, 2000, establishing principles, processes, methodologies and 
technical guidelines for every phase of public investment in the Borrower’s territory; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(x) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(y) 
“Steering Committee” (
Comité Directivo
)
means the committee 
established pursuant to Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement; 
(z) 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.02 
of this Agreement;  
(aa) 
“SUNARP” means the Borrower’s Real Property Registry (
Registro de 
Predios
)
under the National Superintendency of Public Registries (
Superintendencia 
Nacional de Registros Públicos
)
established pursuant to 
the Borrower’s Law No. 26366 
(the Superintendency of Public Registries Law) as amended to the date of this 
Agreement; 
(bb) 
“SUNARP Cooperation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
(cc) 
“VIVIENDA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing, Construction 
and Sanitation. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty five 
million Dollars (US$25,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
consultants’ services, training and operating costs required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 
General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2011 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time.  On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions, to but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06.  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full 
on February 15, 2017.  
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.  
 (c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has mad a request, the Borrower 
shall pay to the Bank any premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 2.10.  The Borrower's Minister at the time responsible for Finance or the 
Borrower's Director General at the time responsible for public indebtedness, or any 
person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing, is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted 
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the 
General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through COFOPRI (pursuant the 
Subsidiary Agreement), with the cooperation of: 
(i)  
the Participating Municipalities (pursuant to the Participation 
Agreements), with respect to Part B of the Project; 
(ii) SUNARP (pursuant to the SUNARP Cooperation Agreement) with 
respect to Part C.1 C.2 (b), and D.1 of the Project; and 
(iii) IGN (pursuant to the IGN Cooperation Agreement) with respect to 
Part C.2 (a) of the Project. 
all with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, and financial practices, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
Page  9
-
8
-
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each of the Implementing 
Entities (as the case may be) to perform their respective obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 (b)  
Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, 
the Borrower, through COFOPRI, shall ensure that the Implementing Entities carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual, the Annual Operation Plans and 
the Procurement Plan. 
Section 3.02. (a) the Borrower shall transfer a portion of the proceeds of the Loan 
to COFOPRI under a subsidiary agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and COFOPRI, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, 
setting forth their respective roles and responsibilities regarding the implementation of 
the Project; and  
 (b) without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower, through COFOPRI shall enter into and thereafter comply with, a cooperation 
agreement (the SUNARP Cooperation Agreement) with SUNARP, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of implementing Parts C.1, C.2 (b) 
and D.1 of the Project, said agreement to include, 
inter alia
,
the following obligations: 
 (i) 
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures with respect to their respective Parts 
of the Project, in order to comply with the obligations under 
Sections 4.01 and 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(ii) 
establish the Steering Committee, the Management Committee 
and the Advisory Committee no later than 60 days after the 
Effective Date; and  
(iii) 
comply with the provisions of the Operational Manual, the 
Annual Operation Plans and the Procurement Plan. 
(c) 
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through COFOPRI, shall enter into, no later than June 30, 
2006 and thereafter comply with, a cooperation agreement with IGN (the IGN 
Cooperation Agreement) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the 
purposes of implementing Part C.2 (a) of the Project, said agreement to include, 
inter 
alia
,
the following obligations: 
(i)  
the obligation of IGN to operate and maintain the geodesic 
network to be financed under Part C.2 (a) of the Project; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(ii)  
the obligation of IGN to collaborate with COFOPRI in the 
procurement of the
 goods and consultants’ services for said Part 
C.2 (a) of the Project, in accordance with the Procurement Plan. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause COFOPRI, to  exercise its rights and 
carry out its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, the SUNARP Cooperation 
Agreement and the IGN Cooperation Agreement, as the case may be, in such a manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower and/or COFOPRI 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary  
Agreement, the SUNARP Cooperation Agreement or the IGN Cooperation Agreement or 
any provision thereof. 
(e) 
In case of any conflict among the terms of the Implementation 
Agreement or the Cooperation Agreement and those of this Agreement, the terms of this 
Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Borrower, through COFOPRI, shall update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for 
the Bank’s approval. 
 (c)
 
The Borrower, through COFOPRI, shall: 
 
(i) 
have all the procurement records and documentation for each 
fiscal year of the Project audited, in accordance with appropriate procurement auditing 
principles, by procurement auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such fiscal year, the procurement audit report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
procurement records and documentation and the procurement audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower (through COFOPRI) shall enter into agreements  
(the Participation Agreements) with Provincial Municipalities (or the District 
Municipalities), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of 
ensuring their participation in the implementation of Part B of the Project, such 
agreements to determine the roles and responsibilities of such Municipalities (the 
Participating Municipalities), as follows: 
(i)    
obligations of the Participating Municipalities: 
(A) 
 
to support the participation of community-based 
organizations in the formalization process; and 
(B)  
to allocate appropriate resources (in cash or in kind) for 
the timely implementation of such Part of the Project;  
(ii)   
obligations of COFOPRI: 
(A) 
 
to inform interested Municipalities about Project-
financed activities; 
(B)  
to provide technical assistance and capacity-building to 
the Municipalities for their institutional strengthening for 
conducting formalization and cadastre processes; and 
(C)  
to evaluate jointly with the Municipalities the results of 
Project-financed activities. 
(b)  
Pursuant to the Participation Agreements, the parties thereto shall 
develop and implement action plans to be reflected in the Annual Operation Plans for 
purposes of strengthening the capacity of the Participating Municipalities to manage their 
formalization and cadastre programs, as well as to exchange information with other 
cadastre generating agencies. 
(c)  
The Borrower (through COFOPRI) shall exercise its rights and carry out 
its obligations under each Participation Agreement in such a manner as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower (through COFOPRI) shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Participation Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
Page  12
-
11
-
Section 3.05.  At all times during the execution of the Project, the Borrower 
(through COFOPRI) shall maintain: 
(a) 
a steering committee (the Steering Committee) responsible for general 
Project supervision, including representatives from VIVIENDA, COFOPRI, IGN, 
SUNARP, MEF and civil society, with the structure, functions and responsibilities 
described in the Operational Manual, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) approval of each Annual 
Operating Plan and any modification thereof; (ii) review of Project implementation audits 
and reports; and (iii) responsibility for the preparation of the short list for the selection of 
key staff for PCU under competitive and transparent procedures;   
(b) 
a management committee (the Management Committee) responsible for 
the supervision of the PCU and overall management of the Project, including 
representatives from COFOPRI, IGN and SUNARP with the structure, functions and 
responsibilities described in the Operational Manual; 
(c) 
an advisory committee (the Advisory Committee), comprising 
representatives of the private sector, civil society and/or academic institutions, with the  
structure, functions and responsibilities described in the Operational Manual, including, 
inter alia, 
responsibility for provision of regular feedback to the Implementing Entities 
on the Performance Indicators; and  
(d) 
a Project coordination unit (the PCU), within COFOPRI, responsible for 
day-to-day Project coordination with the structure, functions and responsibilities 
described in the Operational Manual, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
responsibility for:  
(i) preparing the Annual Operation Plans; (ii) overall Project monitoring and evaluation; 
(iii) processing of documentation required for disbursement of Loan proceeds and for 
procurement of goods and services under the Project; (iv) updating the Procurement Plan 
and preparing standard bidding documents, technical specifications for goods , as well as 
requests of proposals, 
terms of reference and short lists for consultants’ services; and (v) 
preparing financial statements and FMRs, and maintaining the records and accounts 
referred to in Article IV of this Agreement. 
(e) 
With regard to the short list of the key staff for the PCU referred to in 
sub-paragraph (d) above, the procedures followed for their selection and their experience 
and qualifications shall be satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank shall inform the Borrower 
the reasons underlying the Bank's findings and recommendations in that regard. 
Section 3.06. (a) Pursuant to the SUNARP Cooperation Agreement and the IGN 
Cooperation Agreement, the Borrower shall issue and apply an operational manual, 
satisfactory to the Bank, containing, 
inter alia
:
Page  13
-
12
-
(i)  
the Project
’s institutional setup, including specific provisions on 
detailed arrangements for the carrying out of the Project and a 
model to be used for the execution of the Participation 
Agreements; 
(ii)  
disbursement, accounting, auditing and reporting procedures, 
including a model to be used in the preparation of FMRs; 
(iii) 
procurement responsibilities, processes and internal controls; and 
(iv)  
monitoring and evaluation plans for the Project, including the 
Performance Indicators. 
(b)  
If any provision of the Operational Manual is inconsistent with a 
provision of this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern. 
Section 3.07. The Borrower (through COFOPRI) shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators set forth the 
Operational Manual, the carrying out of the Project and achievement of the objective 
thereof; and 
(b) 
not later than December 31 and June 30 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in December 31, 2006, furnish to the Bank progress reports on 
the execution of the Project during the preceding calendar semester, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including, 
inter alia
:
(i)  
information on the progress achieved during the previous 
calendar semester in the carrying out of the Project (including 
the status of the procurement under the Project) and the 
achievement of the objective thereof; 
(ii)  
an assessment of the issues and options arising from Project 
implementation; 
(iii)  
updated implementation and disbursement schedules for the 
ongoing calendar semester; and 
Page  14
-
13
-
(iv) 
a report on compliance with the 
Borrower’s implementation 
obligations under this Agreement (through COFOPRI) and, 
whenever necessary, action plans proposed to ensure such 
compliance. 
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower (through COFOPRI) shall:  
(i) 
 
not later than December 15 of each year of Project 
implementation, starting in December 15, 2006, furnish to the 
Bank, for its review, an annual operation plan for the following 
calendar year, such plan to specify: (A) the activities to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the respective 
calendar year in the Project Area; (B) the implementation 
schedule; and (C) the required financial and human resources; 
and  
(ii)  
upon the Bank’s approval, carry out such Annual Operation Plan 
in accordance with its terms.  
(b)  
The Bank may refrain from approving any Annual Operation Plan if the 
Bank has determined that the Borrower (through COFOPRI ) is not carrying out the 
Project as provided in this Agreement and no appropriate remedial actions, satisfactory to 
the Bank, have been taken therefor. 
Section 3.09. The Borrower, through COFOPRI and within the framework of 
SNIP, shall: 
(a)  
not later than November 30 of each year of Project implementation, 
starting in November 30, 2006, hold a Project annual review with the Bank, such review 
to be based on the reports referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement and to focus, 
inter alia
,
on:
(i)  
progress in the execution of the Project and the achievement of 
its objective during the previous calendar year; 
(ii)  
performance of the Implementing Entities; 
(iii) 
effectiveness of the Participation Agreements in terms of 
Municipalities’ involvement; 
Page  15
-
14
-
(iv) 
experience with the rules and procedures set forth in the 
Operational Manual; and 
(v)  
justification of the investment and institutional proposals for the 
implementation of the Project during the subsequent calendar 
year; and  
(b)  
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank shall have reasonably 
determined that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of its 
objective is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to be taken all such remedial action, 
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or 
the timely achievement of its objective. 
Section 3.10. The Borrower (through COFOPRI), and within the framework of 
SNIP, shall: 
(a)  
not later than December 31, 2009, contract an impact evaluation study 
with independent consultants of experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, 
operating under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, such study to assess overall 
Project economic and social impact; 
(b)  
not later than June 30, 2010, furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
comments, the findings and recommendations of such study by said consultants; and 
(c)  
not later than September 30, 2010, review with a sample of Participating 
Municipalities, the Advisory Committee, and the Steering Committee, as well as other 
agencies of the Borrower involved in formalization and cadastre processes, the results of 
such imp
act evaluation study taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon. 
Section 3.11. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower (through COFOPRI) shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower (through COFOPRI) and the Bank, a plan 
for the sustainability of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
 
ARTICLE IV 
Page  16
-
15
-
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through COFOPRI, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through COFOPRI, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year, audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower, through COFOPRI, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
Page  17
-
16
-
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower, through 
COFOPRI,   shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
COFOPRI, IGN or SUNARP shall have failed to perform any of their 
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement, the SUNARP Cooperation  
Agreement or the IGN Cooperation Agreement, as the case may be, that materially and 
adversely affect the ability of the Borrower and/or COFOPRI, SUNARP or IGN to 
perform any of its obligations under this Agreement; or  
 
Page  18
-
17
-
(b) 
any of the Real Property Registry Law, the Decentralization Framework 
Law, the Municipalities Organic Law, the National Integrated Cadastre System Law, the 
Formalization of the Informal Property Law, or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to, in the opinion of the Bank, 
affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 
(a) of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a) 
that the Subsidiary Agreement, the SUNARP Cooperation  Agreement 
and the IGN Cooperation Agreement shall have been duly executed and delivered by the 
parties thereto; and  
(b)  
that the Operational Manual shall have been approved by the Bank. 
Section 6.02. The date February 1, 2007 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Economy and Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
 
Jr.
 Junín 319 
 
Lima 1 
 
Peru 
 
Facsimile: 
    (511) 
426-8500 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  21
-
20
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the Lima, Peru as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PERU
 
By /s/ Jose Ugarte Maggiolo 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Marcelo Giugale   
Authorized Representative 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
to be financed
(1) Goods 
 
4,585,370 
 
65% 
 
 
(2) Consultants
’
services 14,054,470 
 
65% 
 (including 
audits 
referred 
 
to in Sections 4.01 (b) (i)  
 
and 3.03 (c) (i) of  
 this 
Agreement) 
 
(3) Training 
3,649,705 
 
65% 
 
(4)  
Operating costs 
2,647,955 
 
65% 
 
(5) 
Front-end fee 
62,500 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(6) 
Premia for Interest 
0 
Amounts due under 
 
Rate Caps 
 
Section 2.09(c) of this 
 
and Interest Rate 
 
Agreement 
 Collars 
 
 
_________ 
 TOTAL 
25,000,000
Page  23
-
22
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) the 
term 
“training” means reasonable expenditures (other than for 
consultants' services) incurred for: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities 
and other expenditures related to organization of training events; (iii) transportation 
expenses of trainees; and (iv) subsistence expenses for trainees; and
 
(b)  
the term “operating costs” means reasonable expenditures incurred for: 
(i) transportation and communication services; (ii) office materials and supplies; and (iii) 
printing and document reproduction services; all related to activities of the PCU (none of 
which would have been incurred absent the Project) for the implementation and 
supervision of the Project. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,500,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Section A 
of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures within twelve months 
before the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for:  (a) goods costing 
less than $250,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting firms costing less 
than $200,000 equivalent per contract; and (d)  training and operating costs, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower, through COFOPRI, may request withdrawals from the Loan 
Account to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other 
information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. In the case of the first 
such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan 
Account, the Borrower, through COFOPRI, shall submit to the Bank only a statement 
with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-month 
period following the date of such request.  
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower, through COFOPRI, may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars, a separate special deposit account in its 
Banco de la Nación 
on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. 
Page  24
-
23
-
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower, through COFOPRI, is not making Report-based 
Disbursements, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A 
to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower
,
through COFOPRI
,
is making Report-based 
Disbursements, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B 
to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower, through COFOPRI, out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, through COFOPRI, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower, through COFOPRI, 
directly from the Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower, through COFOPRI,  shall have failed to furnish to the 
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any 
of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were 
Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as 
the case may be.  
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
Page  25
-
24
-
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, through COFOPRI, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall,
 
through 
COFOPRI
,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower, through COFOPRI, may, upon notice to the Bank, refund 
to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  26
-
25
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this 
Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of US$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower, through 
COFOPRI, shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
through COFOPRI, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested, through COFOPRI.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower, through 
COFOPRI, shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower, through COFOPRI, shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, through COFOPRI, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower, 
through COFOPRI, shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower, through COFOPRI.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to  
Page  27
-
26
-
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  28
-
27
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each 
such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, through COFOPRI, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the 
amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the 
reports referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to consolidate a decentralized and sustainable 
quality real property rights system that facilitates access for the 
Borrower’s population. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
Part A
:
Comprehensive Real Property Rights Policies 
1. 
 Real Property Rights Knowledge Management: 
 
(a)  
Establishment of a multi-sectoral commission to analyze priority issues 
for real property rights.   
 
(b) 
Carrying out of diagnostic socio-economic studies, in areas like cost-
benefit analysis of accessing formality, remaining informal and staying formal with 
respect to real property rights, credit practices and case studies of land allocation. 
 
(c) 
Carrying out participation and consultation workshops with key 
stakeholders on real property rights issues for the development of appropriate policies at 
the national level, and the definition of the roles and responsibilities of the institutions 
involved.  
 
2.  
Legal and Regulatory Reforms: 
 
Preparation of policy reform proposals for the Borrower’s new legal and 
regulatory framework for, 
inter alia
:
(a)  
real property rights;  
 
(b) 
land administration and allocation; 
 
(c) 
investment and credit promotion; and 
 
(d) inter-institutional 
coordination. 
 
Part B
:
Decentralized Formalization and Cadastre Services Provision
1. 
Planning of training activities by COFOPRI. 
Page  30
-
29
-
2. 
Capacity-building and technical assistance for local governments on 
formalization services, through the provision of technical assistance and training to the 
Participating Municipalities and COFOPRI in order to design and implement a 
formalization strategy adapted to the particularities of each Municipality, including:  
 
(a) 
activity planning, comprising municipal capacity diagnostic, informal 
possessions diagnostic and municipal strategy development; 
 
(b) 
municipal capacity-building, including workshops, internships, in-service 
training, distance training, ex-post evaluation, and follow-up groups; and 
 
(c) 
area and lot formalization, including dissemination, inter-institutional 
coordination, census-taking and publication, field work categorization, mapping, legal 
analysis, titling and registration. 
 
3. 
Capacity-building and technical assistance for local governments on cadastre 
services, through the provision of technical assistance and training to the Participating 
Municipalities and COFOPRI in order to design and implement a cadastre strategy 
adapted to the particularities of each Municipality, including:  
 
(a) activity 
planning; 
 
(b) 
municipal capacity-building, including workshops and in-service 
training, distance training, and ex-post evaluation;  
 
(c) 
graphic and alphanumeric data collection, including geodesic control and 
cadastre cartography, coding and numbering, demarcation and census taking, and data 
processing; and 
 
(d) 
unified cadastre code allocation, including publication of cadastre 
information and registry-cadastre linkage. 
 
4. 
Supervision of capacity-building activities by COFOPRI. 
 
Part C
:
Registry Services Provision
1. 
Real Property Registry Information Management: 
 
Provision of technical services and training to support
 SUNARP’s national 
coverage under an efficient registration model, including:  
 
(a)  
revision of data models for SUNARP, comprising analysis and definition 
of the mechanisms for the consolidation, standardization and migration of SUNARP 
databases; and 
 
Page  31
-
30
-
(b)  
development and implementation of a web-based service platform for the 
new SUNARP data model. 
 
2.  
Real Property Demarcation: 
 (a) 
Modernization and densification of the Borrower’s geodesic network as a 
proper framework for data validation of cadastral surveys, through the operation and 
maintenance of a network of permanent monitoring stations. 
 
(b) 
Capacity-building of the national cadastre system through the provision 
of training to the professional and technical staff of the member institutions of the system 
on the principles and modalities for the implementation of the National Integrated 
Cadastre System Law. 
 
Part D
:
Formalization Benefits Dissemination
1. 
 Registry Culture Benefits: 
 
Development and implementation of innovative public education campaigns in 
the area of registry culture, by revising and expanding current COFOPRI and SUNARP 
programs to inform the Borrower’s population about registry issues.  
 
2. 
 Credit Culture Benefits: 
 
(a) 
Development and implementation of innovative public education 
campaigns in the area of credit culture, by revising and expanding current COFOPRI 
programs to promote a credit culture with an innovative approach that brings together 
financial institutions and Micro-enterprises. 
 
(b)  
Development of COFOPRI’s positive information bureau (
Central de 
Informac
ión Positiva -CIP-
), as an instrument for the promotion of small investment and 
credit programs, and commercial and productive opportunity links, centered on specific 
financial products and services in formalized areas. 
 
3.  
Development of a Formal Real Property Rights Market, through the development 
and implementation of a real estate exchange, as a database that will contain information 
on supply and demand of properties in recently formalized areas to be accessed massively 
through the internet. 
 
4. 
 
Information about Real Property Rights Respect Benefits, through the 
development and implementation of innovative public education campaigns in the area of 
property rights culture, through promotion activities for real property rights respect. 
 
Page  32
-
31
-
Part E
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
1. 
Carrying out of standard Project coordination activities. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of specific monitoring and evaluation activities, such as: 
 
(a) 
assessments of the transparency and accountability framework of 
COFOPRI and SUNARP; and  
 
(b) 
evaluation of socio-economic impact of the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2011 
 
Page  33
-
32
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines or the Consultant Guidelines, 
as the case may be. 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding.
Goods and services (other than Consultant’s 
Services) estimated to cost less than $250,000 but more than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  34
-
33
-
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for 
Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said 
procurement method. 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $350,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Consultants’ Qualifications in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Least-Cost in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Fixed-Budget 
Selection
.
Services for assignments estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, which the Bank agrees meet the requirements of 
paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of Fixed-Budget in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  35
-
34
-
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Section V
.
Special Provisions
A. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all procurement of 
goods under Part B.1 of Section II of this Schedule: 
1. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding documents. 
2. 
Award of contracts shall be based exclusively on price and, whenever 
appropriate, shall take into account factors that can be quantified objectively, and the 
procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
3. 
The Borrower, through COFOPRI, shall utilize standard bidding documents 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
4. 
Foreign bidders shall not be required to legalize their bids or any documentation 
related to such bids with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or 
any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participate in the bidding process. 
B. 
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in 
this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all 
employment of consultants referred to in Section III of this Schedule: 
1. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
2. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the proposal documents. 
Page  36
-
35
-
3. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any 
documentation related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, or any Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participate in the 
selection process. 
 
