Report No. 977a-BU
Appraisal of the Fisheries Development
Project Burundi
March 22, 1976                                              FILE  COPY
Agriculture Credit and Livestock Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the Wordd Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$1             =       FBu 78.35
FBu 100          =       US$1.28
US$1             =       Dh3.95  (UAE Dirhams)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 hectare (ha)                =   10,000 m2             =   2.46 acres
1 kilometer (km)              =                             0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)      =    0.39 sq. miles       =   100 ha
1 meter                       -    1.1 yards            =   3.3 feet
1 kilogram (kg)               =    1,000 grams (gm)   =   2.20 pounds
1 liter                       =                             0.26 gallons
1,000 kg                      =    1 metric ton         =   98 long tons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNDE     =     Banque Nationale de Développement Economique
(National Economic Development Bank)
BRB            Banque de la République du Burundi
(Bank of the Republic of Burundi)
Fund     =     Abu Dhabi Fund. for Arab Economic Development
RDS      =      Société Régionale de Développement "Usine de Poissons
de Burundi" (Regional Development Society for Fisheries)
GOVERNMENT OF BURUNDI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURVNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUPaRY AND CCOCLUSIOS .......1........................  i-iv
I.   INTRODUCTI0N ............         ..............................   1
Il.   BCKGROUND .        ............................................   2
A.   General  ...........        ..............................   2
B.   The Agricultural Sector  .........................   2
C.   The Fisheries Sub-Sector   ...........          .............   3
D.   The FAO/UNDP Fisheries Developuent Project             ......   7
E.   Agricultural Services and Training  .             .............   8
F.   Agricultural Credit  .............................   9
G.   The Project Are&  ................................  10
III.   TU  PROJECT  ........             ......................   12
A.   General Description  .............................   12
B.   Detailed Features   ..............................   13
C.   Project Costs        ..............................   16
D.   F±n' 'inIg    ........................--.--                  18
E.   Procurement             ........................   20
F.   Disbursements            ........................   20
G.   Accounts and Audits   ........................   21
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MNAGEMENT   ......             ....................  22
V.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRODUCER BENEFITS  .... ......  25
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ......             .....................  27
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....             ............  29
This Report is based on the findings of an IDA Appraisal Mission to
Burundi in Septber-October 1975, cocposed of K. Marshall and M. Heitner
(IDA) and R. Savoie (consultant).
Thi. docum  hts a oetrictd distribution and may be usod by recipinBs only in tho performance
of theér ofikâi duties lts contents may not otherwise be diacl»ed without Worid Bank authorjution.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.  The Fisheries Sector in Burundi
Table 1 - Climatic Data - Lake Tanganyika
Table 2 - Development of Fish Catch 1950 - 1974 - Lake Tanganyika
Table 3 - Production of Fish bvr Species - 1974
Table 4 - Value of Fish Producition 1971-74
Table 5 - Fishing Units in Use and Estimated Number of Fishermen
Appendix 1 - Ministerial Order Amending the Regulations on Fishing
in Lake Tanganyika - 1966
Diagraa - Catamaran Liftnet Fishing (WB-9966)
2.   Fish Processing and Marketing
Table 1 - Estimated Population, of Burundi by Province and
District - 1971
Table 2 - Per Capita Fish Consumption in Selected African
Countries - 1970
Table 3 - Dry Fish Consumption in Burundi by Province - 1971
Table 4 - Sales of Traditionally Dried Ndagala
Table 5 - Wholesale Ndagala Sales by Industrial Fisheries in
Bujumbura Central Market by Lunar Period - 1973-
August 1975
Table 6 - Beach Sales of Ndagala by Traditional and Artisanal
Fisheries by Lunar period 1974-August 1975
Table 7 - Average Lunar Periodl and Daily Primary Wholesale
Quantities of all Fresh Fish from Industrial Fisheries
Sold at Bujumbura Central Market in 1973 and 1974
3.   FAO/UNDP Fisheries Development Projects for Lake Tanganyika
Table 1 - Fish Purchased by K.itaza Fishing Center by July 1973-
October 1974
Table 2 - Sales of Smoked NdaLgala from Kitaza Plant by July 1973-
September 1974
4.   Institutional Background for Fisheries Development
5.   The Societe Regionale de Developpement (RDS)
Appendix 1 - Regulation Establiahing the Regional Development
Society for Fisheries Development
Appendix 2 - Law on Regional Development Societies (Corporations)
Appendix 3 - Assumptions for the RDS Financial Projections



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Table 1 - Incare Statements
Table 2 - Soerces and Application of Funds
Table 3 - Balance Sheet
Table 4 - Depreciation Schedule
6.   Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE)
Table 1 - Loans Approved and Relevant Data
Table 2 - Balance Sheets
Table 3 - Profit and Loss Statement
7.   Coastal Region Development Activities
8.   Technical AssistanGe
9.   Development Projections
Model - Artisanal Fishing Unit - Center Trimaran - Metal-Hulls
Table 1 - Investment Costs
Table 2 - Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 3 - Cash Flow
Table 4 - Model, Center Trimaran, Wooden Hulls - Cash Flov
Model - Artisanal Fishing Unit - Unattached Catamaran
Table 5 - Sales and Operating Expenses
Model - Catamaran Purse Seine Unit
Table 6 - Investment Costs
Table 7 - Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 8 - Cash Flow
Fishing Equipment and Materials
Table 9 - InvestDent Costs
Model - Fishing Center
Table 10 - Investment Costa
Table 11 - Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 12 - Cash Flow
Model - Fishing Station
Table 13 - Investment Coats
Table 14 - Sales and Operating Expenses
Table 15 - Cash Flow



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
H shing Centers and Stations
Table 16 - Simmary of ILivestment Costs
Fish Marketing
Table 17 - Investment Costs
Table 18 - Sales and Operating Expenses
Fisheries Extension and Fishermen Training
Table 19 - Investment Coste
Regional Development Society
Table 20 - Headquarters - Investment Costs
Table 21 - Headquarters - Operating Expenses
Coastal Region Development Activities
Table 22 - Investment Costs
Technical Services
Table 23 - Investment Costs
10. Summary of Annual Project Costs
11.  Procurement
12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursemrents
13. Government - BNDE Cash Flow
14.  Project Implementation and Reporting and Project Monitoring
Appendix 1 - List of key steps for Project implementation,
1976-77
Table 1    - Project Implementation Schedule
15. Financial Rate of Return
16.  Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Economic Rate of Return
Table 2 - Sensitivity Analysis
CHARTS
Chart 1 - The Regional Development Society (RDS)
MAP
The Fisheries Development Project - IBRD 11587R



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Burundi is one of the most densely populated and poorest countries
in the world. Isolated in the center of Africa, it has few resources beyond
a limited amount of fertile land and unexploited mineral deposits. Pressure
on the land is, however, increasing with the steady growth of the population,
and one of the most difficult problems now facing the Government is the
necessity of ensuring an adequate supply of food. As Burundi's fisheries
resources represent a large and relatively under-utilized resource, Governnent
has given high priority to the expansion of small-scale fisheries. FAO/UNDP
research and development projects have provided a sound base for the future
development of this sub-sector, and the proposed Project would utilize this
work in supporting the rehabilitation and expansion of artisanal fisheries
along the shore of Lake Tanganyika. The Project would have a dual objective:
(a) to increase production of fish through the training of fishermen and the
provision of equipment and materials to them; and (b) to allow a wider distri-
bution of fish throughout the country through improved processing and the
extension of marketing channels.
ii.       The Project would over five years support artisanal fisheries on
Lake Tanganyika, improve fish marketing and processing, and initiate a pilot
development program in the Lake shore region. It would provide a wide range
of fishing equipment and materials to fishermen on a credit or cash basis
including boats, outboard motors, fishing gear, etc. It would also expand or
establish five fishing centers at selected locations along the Lake where the
catch would be dried or othervise processed; investments would be made in,
among other things, brining tanks, drying racks with plastic covers, smoking
ovens and packaging equipment. Each facility would also include simple structures
for the storage of fishing gear, depots for sale of equipment, office buildings
and housing. Five fishing stations would also be established along roughly
the same lines as the centers, except that no facilities would be provided
for brining, mechanical drying or smoking of the catch. The Regional Develop-
ment Society (RDS) would operate f ive catamaran purse seine units on an experi-
mental basis out of the fishing centers as a means of introducing more sophis-
ticated fishing techniques to artisanal fishermen.  In order to facilitate
marketing of the catch from the Project, marketing facilities (particularly
storage depots) would be established in Bujumbura and principal marketing
centers in the interior, and transport would be improved; the principal in-
vestment items would be construction of storage depots, a pilot cold store
unit, vehicles and working capital. In support of these investments, the
Project would also include provision for expanded extension services, technical
assistance and staff training; on-the-job training would also be provided for
fishermen in new fishing and processing techniques. Finally, the Project
would include provision for studies and pilot activities for an integrated



development program for the LakE Tanganvika shore region; the program would
concentrate on crop developrsent possibilities, but could also consider other
possible activities including sc-ial infrastructure, rural industries, and
ancillary developments suchl as the construction of feeder roads.
iii.      The Ministry of Agrictlture arnd Livestock would have primary
responsibility for policy guidarce and coordination of all Project activities.
The Regional Development Society (RDS) for fisheries development would imple-
ment all Project components dirEctlv related to fisheries development, i.e.
provision of equipment and supphIes. development and management of fishing
centers and stations, and marketîng of fish products.  The RDS would also be
responsible for fisheries exten.ion snd training, and for applied fisheries
research and studies. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would be
responsible for the selection ari supervision of technical assistance ner-
sonnel for fisheries, and for ti-aining and studies. The Bureau Technique
d'Etudes would be responsible fcr initîating and coordinating Lake shore
regional development activities; pilot programs would be implemented by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livéstock and by the RDS.
iv.       An IDA credit of US$Ô.D million is proposed which would cover about
86% of foreign exchange costs of US$5.7 million and about 40% of local costs.
This would represent 71% of total Project costs excluding taxes, or 70% of
total Project costs of FBu 675.3 million (US$8.6 million). Sources in Burundi
would finance about 18% of total Project costs. The Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab
Economic Devslopmsnt (Fand) wou' 4 provide a loan of Dh 4 million (equivalent
to approximately USS1.0 million); this loan would finance a share of materials,
equipment and vehicles (Fund and IDA disbursements for these items would be in
the ratio of 44:56), and this part of the Project would be administered jointly
by the Fund and IDA. The Abu Dhibi Fund loan would finance 11% of total
Project costs (net of taxes), in:luding 14% of foreign exchange costs and 7%
of local costs.  The Government  ontrJbution of US$0.3 million would amount
to about 4% of total Project cos:s, which would be offset to the extent that
Project costs include about US$0,17 million for taxes and duties; the Govern-
ment contribution exclusive of ttxes and duties would represent about 2% of
Project costs. The Regional Deve1opment Society would contribute about 5% of
Project costs in the form of worcing capital, while fishermen would finance
about 10% of Project costs throu';h down-payments for equipped fishing units
and through cash purchases of fi;:hing equipment and materials. Funds for
fishing equipment and materials, development of fishing centers and stations,
fish marketing, and RDS headquar :ers would be channelled by the Goverrment to
the Banque Nationale de Développtment Economique (BNDE) at 4% interest per annum.
The BNDE would onlend these fund,; to the Regional Development Society. Funds
for fishermen credit would be on ent to the RDS at 6%, and to fishermen at an
interest rate of 10% for three to six years; other sub-loans to the RDS for
fishing centers, stations, marketing and headquarters would be at an interest
rate of 8-1/2% for tO years. Funcis ffor technical assistance, studies and
training would remain with the G<vernment and would be administered by the
Bureau Technique d'Etudes and thf Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, as



- iii -
appropriate. Procurement of all Project goods and services would be governed
by Government procedures, which are satisfactory. Fishing boats (metal, wooden
and fibreglass hulls assembled as catamarans and trimarans) (US$0.7 million)
would be manufactured locally by a private firm, by the RDS, and by village
boat-builders. Outboard motors, lamps and drying racks and trays, fishing
nets, and processing plant equipment (US$0.8 million) would be purchased
directly from suppliers after the RDS had advertised both in an international
fishing journal and locally seeking expressions of interest. Vehicles and
other equipment (US$0.13 million) would be purchased following solicitation
of quotations from all suppliers represented in Burundi offering adequate
guarantees of service and spare parts. Civil works for fishing centers and
stations, RDS headquarters, and marketing facilities (US$0.38 million) would
be carried out by the RDS by force account, or by local contractors following
local competitive bidding.
v.        At full development (year 6), the Project would result in incremen-
tal fish production of not less than 10,000 tons of fish (wet weight) per year;
this incremental output can be compared to current production of about 9,500
tons a year. Of the 10,000 tons, some 7,500 tons would be processed (smoked
or dried) at fishing centers and stations, yielding about 2,250 tons of
smoked and dried ndagala. This increased production and the improved market-
ing and distribution systems to be supported by the Project should help to
improve nutritional standards in the rural areas, particularly in the interior
of Burundi, by providing a regular and inexpensive source of protein. This
production would thus directly benefit the poorest segment of the rural popu-
lation. It would also result in increased cash incomes for some 3,000 fisher-
men, most of them traditional fishermen engaged also in subsistence farming;
in addition to the fish retained for consumption, these fishermen would earn
a net cash income of between US$300 and US$600 a year. The development of
new marketing channels would also have the significant benefit of helping to
stabilize fish prices, both on a seasonal basis and amonxg the various regions
of the country. This would be accomplished not only by ensuring a regular
supply, but also by increasing and upgrading the supply of processed fish so
that fish could be preserved and stored longer and transported to all parts
of Burundi at all seasons of the year. Finally, through the initiation of
an integrated development plan for the Lake Tanganyika shore area, the Project
would help to provide a firm basis for the future economic development of the
entire region.
vi.       The economic rate of return of the Project is estimated at 20% over
20 years for fisheries investments under the Project. The proposed Project
would, however, involve some significant risks. These fall within two prin-
cipal categories: (a) that, because of poor management, the RDS might fail
to meet the physical objectives of the Project; (b) that unfavorable fish
prices and higher than expected operating costs cause the RDS to operate at
continuous losses and discourage fishermen; and (c) that services to fishermen
might decline or lapse following the investment period. The rate of return
for the Project is most sensitive to changes in fish prices. To offset these
risks, substantial technical assistance has been provided, and development of
management systems emphasized. BNDE would be expected to play an active super-
visory role. Although the risks are relatively great, it is believed that



- iv -
they are significantly outweighed by the benefits to be achieved, and that
the Project offers a practical and economic means of utilizing one of
Burundi's scarce and now under-utilized natural resources.
vii.      Twa IDA credits totalling US$7.0 million have been approved thus
far for agricultural projects in Burundi, both to assist development of coffee.
The first project, approved in 1969, aimed to improve the quantitv and quality
of coffee produced in northern Burundi. Implementation was delayed by slow
delivery of construction materials, the civil disturbances of 1972, and
management problems, but the Project has been completed satisfactorily. A
second coffee project, designed to support the development of smallholder
coffee and food crop production in Ngozi province through distribution of farm
inputs and strengthening extension services, was approved in November, 1975.
viii.     The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$6.0 million to the Government of Burundi.



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DIVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Burundi is one of the most densely-populated and poorest countries
in the world. Isolated in the center of Africa, it has few resources beyond
some fertile land and unexploited mineral deposits. Pressure on land is
increasing with the steady growth of population and one of the most diffï-
cult problems facing the Governnent is to ensure an adequate supply of food.
In attempting to cope with this problem, the Government, as part of its
overall agricultural development strategy, gives high priority to the ex-
pansion of small-scale fisheries. Fisheries resources are substantial but
under-exploited at present; significant rehabilitation from damage sustained
during civil strife in 1972 is still required. A sound base for improvement
of fishing techniques has been demonstrated over two decades, most recently
under FAO/UNDP fisheries research and development projects.  Beyond its
strictly economic benefits, increasing fish production would contribute to
meeting protein needs for Burundi's rural population.
1.02      The objectives of the proposed Project would be (a) to increase
production of fish by small-scale fishermen who need fishing equipment and
training, and (b) to distribute fish more widely throughout Burundi by improv-
ing preservation and marketing channels. Preparation of an integrated develop-
ment program for the Lake Tanganyika shore region, involving assistance for
foodcrop development and social infrastructure, would be a further objective.
1.03      Two IDA credits totalling US$7.0 million have been approved thus
far for agricultural projects in Burundi, both to assist development of
coffee. The first project, approved in 1969, aimed to improve the quantity
and quality of coffee produced in northern Burundi. Implementation was
delayed by slow delivery of construction materials, the civil disturbances
of 1972, and management problems, but the Project has been completed satis-
factorily. A second coffee project, designed to support the development
of smallholder coffee and food crop production in Ngozi province through
distribution of farm inputs and strengthening extension services, was approved
in November, 1975.
1.04      The Project vas prepared by Bank Group Staff, in cooperation with
the Government of Burundi and staff of the FAO/UNDP fisheries projects in
Burundi. Preparation was based on research and experimental work under the
FAO/UNDP fisheries projects, and the Project represents a continuation and
extension of these efforts (para. 2.14).
1.05      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to
Burundi in September-October, 1975, composed of K. Marshall and M. Heitner
(IDA), and R. Savoie (consultant).



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A.. General
2.01      Burundi, a small landlocked country just south of the Equator in
Eastern Africa, lies some 1,400 kilometers from the Indian Ocean. It covers
27,834 km2, and is bounded by Rwanda to the north, Zaire to the west, and
Tanzania to the east and south. Burundi has about 2,000 km2 of territorial
waters in Lake Tanganyika, which represents an important resource for fish-
eries and a vital communications link.  Burundi had an estimated 3.6 million
people in 1975; over 45% of the population is under 15 years old, and the
average population density of about 140 per square kilometer of land area
is very high compared to other African countries. The population is unevenly
distributed, with intense pressure in some areas, and other areas virtually
uninhabited (partly because of tsetse fly). The natural population grovth
rate is about 2.5% a year. BuJumbura, with a population of about 130,000,
is the only sizeable urban ceniter and the vast majority of families are
scattered throughout the countryside. Small towns serve only as administrative
and market centers.
2.02      Burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world, with a per
capita income of about US$90 in 1974.  Rural per capita incomes are estimated
at about US$80. More than 90% of the active population is engaged in small-
holder agriculture. The Government is seeking to improve living standards
through rural development programs aimed at increasing production of both cash
and subsistence crops.  A new ministerial level office with responsibility for
development planning was recently established to improve coordination of plan-
ning activities and to prepare development projects. The objectives of the
five-year development plan for 1973-77 include conservation and agricultural
development, improvement of nutrition, diversification of cash crops, substitu-
tion of imported food products with domestic output, and balanced regional
development.
B. The Agricultural Sector (Excluding Fisheries)
2.03      Burundi produces a variety of agricultural commodities, largely be-
cause of its diveruity of altitude and rainfall. Cotton, rice, tobacco,
robusta coffe«, sugarcane, groundnuts, and oil palm are grown in the Ruzizi
valley, along the LIae Tanganyika shore and in the eastern savannahs. Arabica
coffee, beans and maize, with wheat, barley, potatoes and tea at the higher
elevations, are gronn on the central plateau. Coffee is the predominant
cash crop; fooderops, notably bananas, beans, sweet potatoes, cassava,
potatoes, peas, maize and groundnuts, contribute over half of GDP and are



- 3 -
grown on 90% of cultivated land. Shortage of good land is a serious con-
straint to development of agriculture, particularly in the more densely-
populated regions; however, the north and east, where tsetse fly has cur-
tailed settlement and development, offer considerable potential. About
three fifths of the land area is used for grazing, and the national cattle
herd numbered about 750,000 in 1972, while the goat and sheep population
was estimated at about one million. Livestock is important, but herd pro-
ductivity is low, with low fertility, high mortality and widespread over-
grazing.
2.04      Agriculture contributed about 65% of GDP in 1974.  Exports of
agricultural products totalled FBu 2,208 million (US$28 million) in 1974,
representing over 90% of total exports; coffee accounted for about 84% of
exports, with cotton, hides and tea contributing a total of about 12%.
Imports of food products amounted to about FBu 475 million (US$6.1 million)
in 1974, representing about 14% of total imports. Cultivated land-holdings
in most areas of Burundi are small (less than 1 ha per family) and fragmented.
In the peasant economy fooderops account for an estimated 72% of factor income,
export crops for 9%, animal husbandry for 6%, and foodstuff processing (tradi-
tional beer brewing) 4%. The nutrition of the majority of rural people is
poor and diets are particularly deficient in proteins and fats. Cultivation
techniques are rudimentary throughout Burundi, and only hand tools are in
general use. Marketing channels are poorly developed, exacerbating the tradi-
tional isolation of rural families arising from scattered settlement patterns.
There are few health facilities and schools in rural areas; in 1970 there was
one doctor for every 50,000 people, and primary school enrollment was about
30% of the school age population for the whole of Burundi. Although peasant
farmers have displayed a strong response to price incentives and to extension
efforts, agricultural development is hampered by weak extension services, short
supply of improved seeds and fertilizer, lack of credit, high transport costs,
the poor road network, and inadequate marketing facilities.
C. The Fisheries Sub-Sector (Annex 1)
2.05      Fishing is the principal economic activity along the Lake Tanganyika
shore, and fish is an important part of basic diets. Currently, fisheries
contribute less than 1% to total GDP, and represent a relatively small sub-
sector of the economy; however, it is capable of significant expansion.
2.06      Lake Tanganyika offers the most important fisheries resources in
Burundi. There is some fishing in two northern lakes and in interior rivers
and streams (total less than 1,000 tons a year), but the potential for further 2
development there is quite limited. Total production of fish from the 2,000 km



- 4 -
of Burundi waters of Lake Tanganyika 1/ (1/16 of the total surface of the lake)
was estimated at about 15,400 tons in 1971. Fofloving the 1972 events (para
2.23), production dropped to about 6,400 tons that year. 1974 production was
estimated at about 9,500 tons. Research is currently underway, under the FAO/
UNDP project (para 2.14), to determine the potential for fisheries production
from the Burundi waters of the lake; although no definitive estimate is yet
available, research to date indicates that a sustainable level of production
of at least 25,000 tons per annui for Burundi is possible, and biological
research and acoustic surveys suggest that the real potential may be substan-
tially higher, albeit with considerable annual fluctuations in catch levels;
these appear to be related to characteristics of population dynamics of the
fish species involved rather than to intensity of fishing effort.  Fish move-
ments around the lake are not well known.  It is probable that fish concen-
trations shift substantially folloving plankton, whlch is moved by vinds and
currents, but migration patteras mong territorial waters of the lacustrine
countries are not marked. Over 200 apecies of fish are caught in Lake Tang-
anyika, but generally more than 80% of the catch consists of two small clupeid
species knomn locally as ndagala and lumpu 2/; the bulk of the remaining catch
consista of their larger predators, most significantly, luciolates, known as
mukeke, and four Lates species, one knova as capitaine, or Nile perch.
2.07      Three distinct groupe of fishermen, characterized locally as indus-
trial, artisanal and traditional, fih Lake Tanganyika waters.  The industrial
fisheries date fron the mid-1950's and conaist of 18 purse seine units owned
by Greek nationals. Each unit includes a mother ship of 10 to 20 tons with
au iuboard motor, & nou-pouered skiff to assist in setting and hauling in the
net, and between 3 and 6 amall :Light attraction boats. All vessels were cons-
tructed in Bujumbura. These uiita employ between 25-35 fishermen each, and
their catch totale about 5-6,000 tons a year. The law theoretically restricts
the number of units, and  requires that they fish at least 5 km from the lake
shore and 50 km from Bujumbura, in order to protect suall-scale fishermen.
Artisanal fishing was firat developed in the late 1950's when catamarans
formed by joining two caroes, equipped vith nylon liftnets, vere introduced
by the fisheries service. This tecbnique proved highly successful and was
adopted rapidly by traditional fishermen all along the lake shore; by 1971 an
estiated 500 units vere operating, each vith 5-6 fishermen, catching about
15 tons of fish per unit a year. During the 1972 troubles virtually all these
boats were destroyed or vere taken to Zaire or Tanzania. Soue have since
returned, and nem boats have been built, but further development is hampered
1/ International bouadaries ogu Lake Tanganyika are quite clearly defined and
recognized, and national patrol boats ply the lake on a regular basis.
Burundi waters are the .ont iutenaivley fished part of the lake, priuarily
for historical remsons, but: aiso because of the greater concentration of
population near the lake.  Burundi fishermen generally remain in Burundi
waters; incursionl in Burundi waters by Zairois or Tanzanian fishermen
are quite rare.
2/   Stolothrissa tanganicae op. (ndagala) and limnothrissa miodon sp. (lumpu),
amall, sardine-like fish 60-90 m  long, are pelagic species, found in the
open lake waters. The tern ndagala i comnouly used to describe both
ndagala and luapu, and this report uses that connotation.



by serious shortages of boats and other fishing material8.  Trimarans (formed
by joining three hulls), many powered by small outboard motors, have become
increasingly popular, but the catamarans remain the most common boats. Trials
by the FAO/UNDP project with catamaran purse seine units will begin shortly,
and the technique appears to be very promising. The traditional fishermen
use single canoes and scoopnets; they catch approximately 4-5 tons per boat
a year.   This group now numbers about 700 canoes (down from a maximum of
1,600 units in 1966); its importance is declining as traditional fishermen
progressively adopt the techniques and equipment of the artisanal fisheries;
damage sustained in 1972 also affected this group.
2.08      Most fishing is done at night, although day beach seines, set nets,
and line fishing are quite common. Fishermen depart from landing beaches
in the evening, fish throughout the night, and return at dawn. Lamps are
used by all fishermen to attract fish, and fishing virtually ceases during
the full moon, when use of lamps is ineffective. Fishing continues throughout
the year (totalling about 200 days because of periods of full moon), but the
catch is highly seasonal, with the peak between September and January, and
poor fishing from May to July. Fishing effort is also reduced when the rains
hamper sun drying of fish or limit access to markets (para 2.09) or when winds
render use of liftnets ineffective. It should eventually be possible to
develop some seasonal fishing, particularly since the principal periods where
agricultural labor is required (during harvest season) coincide with periods
when fishing is relatively poor, and vice versa.
Fish Marketing and Processing (Annex 2)
2.09      Fresh fish is much sought after in Burundi, and dried ndagala is
consumed readily in most_parts of the country. Fish is a staple food even for
poor families.  Before 1972, per capita fish consumption was about 5.5 kg
fresh fish equivalent a year, but it has declined significantly since then
with the reduction of the total catch (para 2.06). Rudimentary processing
techniques and restricted marketing channels limit fish available, for only
small quantities of fresh and sun-dried fish now reach the interior. The
period of maximum fish supply differs from the peak in consumer demand; during
the coffee and foodcrop harvest season, when the rural population has cash,
fishing is poor and fish prices high.  Despite uncertainties about demand
forecasts, it is reasonable to assume that with increased production and
improved distribution systems, average per capita fish consumption throughout
Burundi would increase, since most increased production would represent re-
covery to past levels and since new markets would be opened.
2.10      Private traders market fresh and sun-dried fish at wholesale and
retail levels, with very limited controls exercised by central or local autho-
rities. Llmited quantities of dried and smoked ndagala produced and sold by
the UNDP-financed plants are the sole exception (para 2.15). The Bujumbura
Central Market, operated by the municipal administration, is the principal
wholesale and retail market for both fresh and dried fish.  Industrial fishing
units are required by law to wholesale all fish fresh at the Bujumbura Market,



- 6 -
and trucks bring fish there from landing beaches 25 to 75 km south of Bujumbura.
Some traditional and artisanal fishermen also sell fresh fish at the market.
In 1973 the daily turnover of all types of fresh fish (unfilleted and ungutted)
at the market averaged 15 tons a day, ranging from 5 tons in April/May to
28 tons in November/December. Fish is also sold fresh at weekly markets near
some 10 principal landing beaches along the lake shore.  Fish that is not sold
is retained by fishermen for consumption or drying. An estimated 35% of the
total fish catch is consumed fresh.  Fresh fish is retailed almost exclusively
in Bujumbura; small quantities are transported by truck to Gitega and Bubanza
and by bicycle and head carriers to the Ruzizi plain and hill regions adjacent
to the lake shore. Since no ice is used in marketing fresh fish, only in-
significant amounts can be taken beyond this region.
2.11      Sun-drying is the traditional preservation technique for ndagala.
Fish are spread directly on t'îe sand near landing beaches. Fish is dried by
fishermen and their families, and by middlemen who buy fish for drying either
at beach markets or the Bujum'bura Central Market. Some fish retailed fresh
in interior towns and villagels is subsequently dried by the purchasers. Fresh
fish lose about two-thirds of their weight in drying. 1/ Most dried fish is
sold in bulk to traders, who wholesale them in 40-50 kg. jute bags at the Bujum-
bura Central Market.  About o]ie ton of dried fish is sold a day.  Dried fish
is retailed throughout Burundi. Bujumbura and Bubanza provinces absorb most
fish and supplies to markets elsewhere are limited and irregular.  Dried fish
keeps about one month, and is very subject to damage (primarily by dermestis
beetle) and decay. Traditional drying techniques could be improved by using
covered drying racks, village smoking ovens or solar drying units, and by
establishing centralized processing plants near landing beaches.
2.12      The FAO/UNDP project (para 2.15) has introduced preservation and
packaging techniques that preserve fish for up to six months.  Fresh ndagala
are brined, sun-dried on rack3 with plastic covers for protection against
rain, then smoked in simple wood-fueled ovens. Smoked fish (about 27% of
fresh weight) are packaged in 200 g. plastic bags. The FAO/UNDP project staff
are experimenting with a mechanical dryer and with fresh fish marketing, using
ice purchased from the Bujumbura Brevery.  Trials of export of luxury fish
products (frozen capitaine and mukeke and a mock salmon product) have yielded
promising results.
2.13      Fish prices are coni:rolled only at the FAO/UNDP fishing centers
(para 2.15). Primary transacitions between fishermen and vendors, both for
fresh and dried fish, involve bidding, often in the form of beach auctions.
Monthly and seasonal price fluctuations are substantial, and prices also
vary from place to place; the range of prices at beach markets and the
Bujumbura Central Market is frcom about FBu 5 per kilo to FBu 35 per kilo
for fresh ndagala, with the avierage price near FBu 15 per kilo. Prices for
the predator species are more than double those for the ndagala. Average
wholesale prices for dried fish are slightly above FBu 60 per kilo (the
equivalent of FBu 20 fresh). Retail fish prices alseo vary widely; the basic
price is FBu 10 for a heap (of varying weights) of either fresh or dried fish;
prices per kilo range from about FBu 12 to FBu 40 for fresh fish and about
FBu 50 to FBu 200 per kilo for dried fish.
1/   Ndagala is consumed whole, whether fresh or dried.



-7-
D.  The FAO/UNDP Fisheries Proiects (Annex 3)
2.14      FAO/UNDP have aided Burundi fisheries development since 1970.
An initial project (1971-73) carried out research on fish stocks, catch
levels, and processing and marketing. The objective was to produce a
managelpnt plan for fisheries resources in Lake Tanganyika. The project
ineluded a small development component for artisanal fisheries.  After the
destruction of the non-industrial fisheries in 1972 (para 2.23), this was
recast as a rehabilitation program. When the project was completed, two
new projects were approved, one for research and the other for development.
The research project (1974-76) is continuing biological and limnological
(fresh water studies), research on Lake Tanganyika, with emphasis on fish
population dynamics, development of an abiotic index of the lake aimed at
assessing the life which it could support, investigation of nutrients in
the lake, and acoustic surveys to estimate the total biomass and its distri-
bution. The current project should provide the basis for more accurate
estimates of fishing potential in Lake Tanganyika. A future regional re-
search program for the lake, lncluding Burundi, Zaire, Tanzania and possibly
Zambia, is currently being discussed and UNDP and the Swedish International
Development Agency have agreed to consider financing such a program. The
Burundi research projects have identified potential problems in fisheries
development, notably pollution of the lake, and will in future continue to
monitor pollution levels.
2.15      The FAO/UNDP Fisheries Development Project (1974-76) (total cost
US$890,000) is assisting the Government in rehabilitating the artisanal
fisheries sector.  It provides fishing equipment, three small processing
centers, training, institutional development and technical assistance. UNDP's
contribution of about US$725,000 includes approximately US$350,000 for
physical investment: the remainder is technical assistance. Two fishing
centers have been established at Kitaza and Magara and a third center at
Rumonge should be constructed in 1976. Each center includes 30-50 fishing
units, which are metal-hulled catamarans and trimarans, powered by small
outboard motors, with pressure lamps and liftnets. (para. 2.07). The Regional
Development Society for Fisheries (para. 2.18) owns these boats and allocates
them to fishermen under a hire-purchase scheme (para. 2.21). The centers also
include storage facilities for fishing equipment, offices, housing for staff,
and a simple fish processing plant (para. 2.12). The Project is progressing
quite well, particularly on a technical level. The principal problems to
date relate to the development of management capability and effective exten-
sion services, and to the training of counterpart staff, which have lagged
somewhat behind physical development. There have also been persistent pro-
blems with shortages of materials and long delays in procuring equipment and
supplies from overseas.  The Project has not yet demonstrated the viability
of its operations on a commercial level.



-8-
E. Agricultural. Services and Training (Annex 4)
2.16      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock is responsible for policy
direction and coordination of all activities in the agricultural sector,
including fisheries. The Ministry has two major departments, for agriculture
and livestock; it oversees thet activities of three parastatals responsible
for cash crop development and marketing, four regional development societies,
and all agricultural training and research institutions. The Agriculture
Department comprises seven divisions, including agricultural planning, infor-
mation and extension, agronomy, and waters and forests (which includes the
fisheries service); the field staff of the Ministry numbers about 800. Field
extension work is hampered by insufficient staff, particularly at intermediate
levels, limited funds, and weak extension programs. The three principal
training institutions for agricultural staff in Burundi appear to be well-
managed. Burundi's output of high level staff through 1980 should be suf-
ficient for on-going programs and planned rural development schemes. However,
shortages of qualified staff at intermediate levels are serious and are
likely to persist for some tine.
2.17      The Director of Waters and Forests is responsible for fisheries
development; the Fisheries Service, which is under his direct authority, is
closely associated with the FAO/UNDP fisheries projects, and most staff work
directly under the projects. All staff are posted in Bujumbura with the
exception of those working at the Kitaza and Magara fishing centers on Lake
Tanganyika. The service has no extension program beyond the project centers.
2.18      The Regional Development Society for fisheries development (RDS) 1/
(Annex 5), a parastatal corporation responsible for fisheries development,
was established in October 1973, under the aegis of the FAO/UNDP Fisheries
Development Project. The RDS's attributions cover all aspects of fisheries
development in Burundi, from primary production through marketing of fresh
or processed fish in all parts of the country.  The RDS can buy fish, build
and manage processing centers, market fish in Burundi or abroad, establish
marketing centers, import, sell or rent fishing materials, and finance the
sale of these materials. The initial capital of the RDS is subscribed
entirely by the Government with funds provided under the FAO/UNDP Fisheries
Development Project. The Board of Directors includes the Director of Waters
and Forests, a representative of the Banque Nationale de Developpement
Economique (BNDE) (para 2.20), the Director of Agricultural Planning, re-
preseutative« of the Ministry of Finance and the fishermen (named by the
Mlnister of Agriculture), the Director of Foreign Trade, and a permanent
Goverument r~Femqatative. The Board names a general manager; the Director
1/   Societe Regional de development, "Usines de Poisson de Burundi."  The
term "Regional Development Society" is something of a misnomer; the
statutory format is designed for activities centered in a specific re-
gion; as regards fisheries, however, the RDS has responsibilities for
fisherles developuent throughout Burundi.



9-
of Waters and Foresta is presently acting in this capacity.  The RDS does not
yet have a permanent staff or organization; accounting procedures are being
developed with assistance from UNDP experts and staff of the BNDE.
F. Agricultural Credit
2.19      Agricultural credit is not well-developed in Burundi.  Two financial
institutions, the Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique du Burundi
(BNDE - National Economic Development Bank of Burundi) (Annex 6) and the
Banque de la Republique du Burundi (Bank of the Republic of Burundi - BRB),
the Central Bank, provide credit, but to date most of the limited funds avail-
able for smallholder agricultural development projects have been channelled
through parastatal organizations or passed on to farmers directly through
bilateral or multilateral assistance programs.
2.20      The BNDE has primary responsibility for developing agricultural-
credit, and it i8 the only financial institution in Burundi
engaged in medium and long-term agricultural credit. Established in 1966,
the BNDE is a multipurpose development bank owned 38% by the Governnent and
parastatal institutions, 12% by local commercial banks, 17% each by the
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique of the French government and the
German Development Society and 8% each by a commercial bank and a brewery. On
December 31, 1974, the paid-in capital was FBu 120.7 million (US$1.5 million).
BNDE finances agriculture, trade, industry, crafts, housing and household
goods. It also provides management consultancy services to Government, paras-
tatal and private institutions. BNDE is a sound financial institution. Its
staff numbers 40 including seven professionals, and it has received considerable
technical assistance. Although in theory applicants prepare loan applications,
in practice BNDE staff carry out this function; they also supervise loans.
BNDE has no branches outside its central office ln Bujumbura; a proposed
decentralization has not yet been approved, largely because of limited invest-
ment opportunities outside the capital. During 1974, the BNDE undertook
1,023 operations totalling FBu 150.2 million (US$1.8 million). Over the past
three years, loan operations have averaged about 900 a year, with an average
of FBu 258,000 (US$3,300) per loan. Marketing loans (loans to traders to buy
crops - largely coffee - from farmers) accounted for 73% of BNDE's lending,
while small equipment loans accounted for 90% of all lending operations by
number of operations. However, Government guarantees for marketing loans
have been wlthdrawn, and BNDE's loan profile is likely to change significantly
as a result. Although the BNDE places a high priority on expansion of its
medium and long-term activities in agriculture and industry, the opportunities
in these sectors have been very limited se far. BNDE's medium and long-term
agricultural lending has been primarily to finance working capital, seeds and
fertilizers. Defaults have been high, however, and most beneficiaries have
not been engaged full time in agriculture (many have been civil servants).
BNDE is seeking to expand its agricultural lending.



- 10 -
Prospects for expansion have been improved by the creation of regional develop-
ment societies and tea and rice cooperatives, which should facilitate small-
scale credit mechanisms. The interest rate for agricultural loans, set
by BNDE in consultation with BRB, is 6% for short, medium and long-term
loans; the commercial bank interest rate for medium-term loans is in the
range of 10%.
2.21      Credit for fisheries is available only through the FA0/UNDP fish-
eries project (para 2.15). Although the BNDE has received individual appli-
cations to finance fishing equipment, no small-scale loans have been approved
to date for this purpose, primarily because of a lack of a credit policy for
the sub-sector. Under the FAO/UNDP fisheries project, the Regional Develop-
ment Society (para 2.18) sells equipment to fishermen under a hire-purchase
arrangement. Reimbursement is handled as follows: the catch is sold daily
to project fishing centers at a fixed price, and from the proceeds, costs
of fuel and spare parts for each day's fishing are deducted; 50% of the net
sales go to the captain or owner, and 50% is divided among the remaining crew
members. Of the captain's share, half is retained as repayment for the boat
and equipment. Loans are expected to be repaid in full in two to three years
under this system; no interest has been charged to date.  While this system
seems appropriate for the initial pYiase of artisanal fisheries developinent,
a more sophisticated credit system is required in future, involving security
for loans and a rate of interest suEficient to cover the costs of the lending
operation. In addition, credit is iextended now to a small minority of flsh-
ermen; as the system evolves, it should be designed to serve most fishermen
along the Lake Tanganyika shore who are currently or potentially involved in
artisanal fishing.  A further problem arises from the allocation of many
units to non-fishermen (many of them civil servants), who hire fishermen and
reportedly collect 50% of revenues, the balance being used to pay the captain
and crew and other fishing expenses.  As a result, fishing effort appears to
have been reduced, and fishermen thenselves derive only limited benefits from
their efforts. The Government inteids that in future fisheries credit should
be available only to fishermen (para. 4.04).
G. The Project Area
2.22      The Project area includes the lake shore plain of Lake Tanganyika,
extending from the city of Bujumbura to the border with Tanzania (about 140 km
South of Bujumbura), the hills behind the plain up to the Nile-Zaire divide,
and the Burundi waters of Lake Tanganyika.   It falls in the districts of
Bujumbura, Mwisale, Bururi, and Makemba (see map). The Lake forms part of
the great rift valley, and the Lake bottom drops sharply from the shore to
depths of up to 1400 m.   The extent: of the plain varies widely, from river
valleys near Rumonge and Nyanza Lac, to places where the hills rise abruptly
close to the lake shore. The altitude along the lake shore is 770 m, risina
to about 2,500 m at the Nile/Zaire clivide. The lakeshore climate is relatively
warm and humid compared with other parts of Burundi.  Rainfall averages about
1,000 mm a year along the lake, and the average annual temperature is 26°C.
Behind the Dlain, the land is hilly, with steep slopes and deep valleys. The
plain covers about 50,000 ha; the estimated rural population of the area is
about 100,000 people.



- il -
2.23      The region along Lake Tanganyika was the part of Burundi most
affected by the civil strife which occurred during 1972 and 1973. Forces
advanced on Bujumbura from the south, along the Nyanza Lac-Bujumbura road,
and there was fighting throughout the area; many people were killed,
and buildings, including fishing centers and fishing observation poste,
were seriously damanged. One result of the troubles here was the departure
of a large part of the population, including fishermen who took their boats
to Zaire and Tanzania; fish production dropped dramatically thereafter
(para. 2.06). It appears now that people have returned to the region, with
the exception of the area around Nyanza Lac which is still sparsely populated.
2.24      Fishing dominates the economy of the Project area, although farming
is also important; livestock husbandry is limited, and there has been virtually
no industrîal or tourist development to date, although there is some potential
for resort development.  Most fishermen are also farmers; many live in the
hills, walking down to fishing beaches in the evening.   Fishing takes place
all along the lake shore; however, most boasts are concentrated near about
10 principal landing beaches, and beach fish and produce markets are located
there. There are perhaps 2,500 full-time fishermen, with an additional 450
employed on the Greek purse seine units. In general their families (primarily
the women) cultivate crops and dry fish, while the fishermen concentrate on
fishing and production of banana and sorghum beer. Near Nyanza Lac, fishermea
tend to live in villages along the lake, and many are Zairois by origin.
Agriculture in the region is mixed; the lake plain, particularly north of
Rumonge, supplies much of the produce marketed in and around Bujumbura; export
crops, notably coffee (both robusta and arabica), cotton and oil palm are al8e
grown, both on larger estates (largely neglected) and by smallholders. The
principal foodcrops are beans, cassava, bananas, swamp rice, and palm oil.
The potential for development of both food and export crops is good, given
climate and soils, but past development programs have been limited. The
principal constraints to further development have been lack of inputs, the
poor organization of extension services, and limited marketing organization.
Data on agricultural production is poor; 1971 estimates indicated cotton
production at 1,200 tons, coffee 1,750 tons, 400 tons of palm oil and 100 tons
of kernel, and 600 tons of paddy.
2.25      The road from Nyanza Lac to Bujumbura is the principal communications
link in the Project area. Although poorly maintained, and in places impassable
to most vehicles during the rains, the road is adequate for development require-
ments of fishing, and construction of a new road financed by the African De-
velopment Bank is scheduled to begin in mid 1976. There is some transport
along the lake itself, by water taxi; this means of transport could be more
frequently utilized if better equipment were provided. The roads up the
escarpment are very poor and there are virtually no feeder roads. Social
infrastructure is limited in the Project area. Many schools, dispensaries,
and other facilities were damaged during the 1972 events, so that the situation
is worse here then elsewhere in Burundi. There are about 6 dispensaries in



- 12 -
the area and very few primary schools, all with inadequate facilities. Lack
of safe drinking vater is a serious problem, and is a priority area for future
development. The principal health problems on the plain are malaria, schis-
tosomiasis, and gastro-intestinal dLseases. Higher in the hills, malnutrition,
principally a lack of protein is the most serious problem.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would be a broadly based program to develop artisanal
fisheries on Lake Tanganyika, to improve fish processing and marketing, and
to initiate an integrated development program in the Lake shore region. It
would follow from fisheries developnent now underway under the FAO/UNDP
fisheries project (para 2.15). Over five years, the Project would include:
(a)  provision of fishing materials and equipment to
fishermen;
(b)  development and expansion of fishing centers and stations;
(c)  improvement of fish marketing;
(d)  strengthening of fisheries extension services and training
for fishermen;
(e) development of RDS managemrent capability;
(f) studies and pilot developrnent activities for the Lake Tanganyika
coastal region;
(g) technical assistance, including training, studies and
preparation of future projects.
3.02      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would have general respon-
sibility for implementing the Project and coordinating Project activities.
Most Project fisheries developments would be carried out by the Regional
Development Society for fisheries (para 2.18). The BNDE (para. 2.20) would
be the channel for Project funds and would assist in financial control. The
Bureau Technique d'Etudes in the Presidency would be responsible for coastal
region development activities and would aid in Project Coordination.



- 13 -
B. Detailed Features
Fishing Equipment and Materials (Annex 9, Table 9)
3.03      A wide range of fishing equipment and materials for artisanal
fisheries (para. 2.07) would be provided. There is at present a serious
shortage of such materials, and no credit mechanisms are available outside
the ongoing UNDP project (para. 2.21). Materials provided would include:
boats (metal, wooden, or fiberglass hulled catamarans or trimarans manufactured
locally), small outboard motors (about 5-6 HP); nets (nylon liftnets of various
sizes), other fishing gear, including lamps, lamp parts, rope, anchors, fish
boxes, and an initial stock of fuel, etc., and small racks for drying fish.
Materials would be provided for an estimated 600 units; of these about 250
are already operating (many without adequate equipment). Materials would be
provided to fishermen on a credit basis for fully equipped units; in addition,
equipment, supplies and parts would be sold for cash.
3.04      The RDS would operate a total of five catamaran purse seine units
on an experimental basis under the Project, one at each center (para. 3.05).
These units would include a mother ship about 9 meters long, with a wheelhouse
and afterdeck spanning the two hulls which would serve as a net carrier and
working deck, and three light boats. The catamaran unit would combine tech-
niques of the artisanal and industrial fisheries, thus affording small-scale
fishermen the opportunity to learn more sophisticated fishing techniques.
The net would measure about 160 by 180 m. and 50 m. deep, and the units
should catch at least 120 tons of fish a year.  The units would aid fishing
center operations by stabilizing center production and training fishermen.
The principal investment items would be fishing units, including boats, nets,
lamps, etc. (Annex 9, Table 6).
Fishing Centers and Fishing Stations (Annex 9, Table 16)
3.05      A total of five fishing centers would be developed at principal
landing beaches along Lake Tanganyika. The locations of existing and planned
centers are indicated on the map. Three centers would involve expansion and
modification of centers established under the FAO/UNDP project (para. 2.15);
two would be entirely new construction. Each center would include facilities
for storage of fishing gear and provision of services to fishermen (maintenance
of motors and lampa), depots for sale of fishing equipment and supplies, office
facilities for center managers, housing for senior staff, and a processing
plant with a capacity of about 6 tons of wet fish per day for 200 days a year.
Each plant would include brining tanks, drying racks with plastic covers, a
mechanical dryer, smoking avens, and packaging equipment. In addition, a
small reforestation tract would be established at each center to ensure a
supply of wood for smoking in future. The main investment items would be:
construction of simple buildings and the processing plant, equipment (scales,
racks, trays for smoke-ovens, brining tanks), office supplies, seedlings and
other supplies for forest tracts, and working capital (Annex 9, Table 10).



- 14 -
3.06      Five fishing stations woild be established under the Project, also
at principal landing beaches. These stations would be similar to fishing
centers, except that they would haire no facilities for brining, mechanical
drying, or smoking. Stations would produce dried fish, or during periods
when sun-drying is precluded by rain or a surfeit of fish, would transport
fresh fish to centers for further processing. The principal investment items
would include: construction of simple buildings, drying racks, supplies, and
working capital (Annex 9, Table 13').
Fish Marketing
3.07      Marketing facilities, particularly storage depots in Bujumbura
and at principal marketing centers in the interior, and transport would be
improved. Some fresh fish would be marketed on a pilot basis with ice
purchased from the Bujumbura brewery; however, the principal marketing effort
would be improved collection, storage, and marketing for both Project and
traditional dried fish produced all along the shore of Lake Tanganyika, and
development of an effective marketing system for dried smoked ndagala pro-
duced by Project fishing centers. In addition, a small freezer cold store
unit would be established to aid in pilot export operations for predator fish
species. The unit would consist of one plate freezer with a one-ton per day
capacity and a three to five ton cold store; both could be expanded as the
need arises. This unit would enable the RDS to explore luxury market export
prospects in Africa and Europe. The principal investment items for marketing
would be construction of storage detpots, a cold store unit, vehicles (small
and large trucks and boats for lake transport), and working capital (Annex 9,
Table 17).
Fisheries Extension Service
3.08      Extension services serving fishermen along the Lake Tanganyika shore
would be strengthened. The primary objective of the extension service would
be to provide counsel and training to fishermen on improved fishing techniques,
to aid in securing equipment and supplies, to advise on preservation techniques
(drying on racks, small village smoking ovens), and assist in Project marketing
activities. The service should reach an estimated 3,000 fishermen at full
development; it would have an estimated 10 extension staff trained under the
Project. The main investment items would be: offices and housing for staff
at or near fishing centers, supplies, vehicles (motorcycles), and operating
costs for 5 years (Annex 9, Table 19).
Regional Development Society Headguarters
3.09      The Project would assist the RDS to establish an effective management
capability through technical assistance and training (para. 3.11) and would
develop headquarters facilities. The principal investment items would
include office facilities in Bujumbura, a garage and workshop, office equip-
ment, furniture and supplies, vehicles, storage facilities, and working
capital (Annex 9, Table 20).



- 15 -
Coastal Region Development Activities (Annex 7)
3.10      The Project would include provision to plan for and initiate an
integrated development program for the Lake Tanganyika shore region. A
regional development study would explore prospects for the region outside
fisheries; it would focus on crop development possibilities, but could also
investigate other possible activities, including social infrastructure, rural
industry and ancillary developments such as feeder road construction. This
study should propose a general development plan and specific proposals for
pilot development activities. Following the first phase of the regional
development study, which would focus on assembling available data on the
region and on identifying priority development activities, pilot activities
would be initiated under the Project, in order to prepare future development
programs, and to commence work on feasible schemes in the region. The study
would include data collection, field surveys, analysis, and preparation of
development programs. Pilot development activities would include strength-
ening of extension services, provision of agricultural inputs (including
selected seeds, tools, small livestock, and village processing facilities
such as flour mills and oil presses), and development of social infrastructure
and community installations. Many of these activities have already been
identified, and relate to rehabilitation, or to strengthening existing ser-
vices and installations. Detailed plans would be prepared to determine pre-
cise costs and plan implementation procedures (para. 4.07). Annex 9, Table 22
gives details of investments.
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training (Annex 8)
3.11      The Project would include technical assistance for Project manage-
ment, studies to prepare future development activities, and training for
extension staff, RDS management personnel, and fishermen. An estimated 20
man-years of technical assistance would be required for the RDS, because there
is limited fisheries expertise in Burundi. Technical assistance specifically
for fisheries development would include four specialists, for fisheries devel-
opment and extension, fish processing, fish marketing, and management and
administration (including finance). An additional specialist would be provided
for technical and mechanical activities, if the RDS undertakes major force
account works or boat building (para. 4.02). Expatriate specialists would
train Burundi counterparts, and they should be phased out during the final
years of Project investment. Consulting services would also be required for
the regional development study and pilot activities, for marketing, and for
such specialized areas as development of export markets. The Project would
include preparation for future development projects, and investigation of
problems concerning the lake and the region around it, notably a review of
the problem of pollution in Lake Tanganyika (para 4.09). Training would be
an essential part of the Project. Most would be in-service, on-the-job train-
ing, notably for RDS staff, for fishermen, in new fishing and processing
techniques, and for mechanics and maintenance personnel. Some courses for
staff would be organized in Burundi, in areas such as accounting and credit,
and overseas fellowships for short courses and study visits would be included
(Annex 9, Table 23).



- 16 -
Working Capital and Operating Expenses
3.12      Working capital and operating expenses have been included in Project
costs under the individual investment items to which they relate. For the
RDS, working capital equivalent to l:wo months operating costs for fishing
centers and two months operating costs for stations and the fish marketing
program would be required; this would represent the estimated average period
between purchase of fresh fish and sale of processed fish.  The equivalent
of three months operating costs for RDS headquarters was included as working
capital. In addition, operating costs for fisheries extension and for extension
under the coastal region development: scheme were included in Project costs. The
IDA credit would not be disbursed against working capital. A part of the credit
proceeds would finance operating costs for fisheries extension, training, and
trials of new fishing techniques.
C. Project Costs
3.12      Total Project cost is estimated at about FBu 675.3 million (US$8.6
million), of which approximately US$5.7 million or 66% represent foreign ex-
change requirements. Details are summarized in the following table:



- 17 -
Foreign
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
---- FBu million ----  ------ US$ '000 -----         %
Project Component
RDS-Fisheries Investment
(excluding technical
assistance)
Fishing Equipment and
Materials                 31.3   103.5   134.8   400   1,321    1,721    77
Fishing Centers and
Stations                  27.0    15.4    42.4   345       197       542    36
Fish Marketing               8.2     8.6    16.8   105       110       215    51
Fisheries Extension          3.5      0.9     4.4    45        il       56    20
RDS Headquarters             4.5     3.6      8.1    57       41       103    44
Sub-Total Fisheries
Investment            74.4   132.0   206.4   952   1,685    2,637    64
Coastal Development
Activities
Regional Development
Studies                     15.8     29.6   45.4   202       378       580    65
Regional Development
Activities                  29.6      10.1   39.7   377       130      507    26
Sub-total Coastal
Development
Activities            45.4      39.7   85.1   579       508    1,087    47
Technical Assistance,
Studies, Training         26.6    117.2   143.8  340   1,496    1,835    82
Total (Excluding
Contingencies)    146.3    288.9   435.2 1,867  3,687    5,555    66
Contingency Allowances
Physical                    14.6    28.9    43.5   186        369      555    66
Price                       66.1   130.4   196.5   844   1,664    2,508    66
Total Contingencies         80.7   159.2   240.0 1,030   2,033    3,063    66
Total Project Costs        227.1   448.2   675.3 2,899   5,721    8,619    66
Costs have been estimated at prices as of March, 1976.  A physical contingency
of 10% has been applied to all Project items, and price contingencies were
applied at a rate of 11% for 1976, 10% for 1977-79, and 9.4% thereafter.



- 18 -
(Annex 10, Note 2). Taxes and cluties on Project goods were included
in cost estimates, but would be limited, since imports for development
projects are exempt from duty; applicable taxes for Project investments
are estimated at FBu 10 million (US$0.17 million). Annex 10 gives the
phasing of investments and a breakdown of Project costs.
D. Financing
3.14      Financing of Project costs would be shared as follows:
FBu       US$        %
(million) (million)
Government of Burundi                27        0.3        4
Regional Development Society        32         0.4        5
Fishermen                           70         0.9       10
Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab
Economic Development              76         1.0      il
IDA                                470         6.0      70
Total:                   675        8.6-    100
3.15      The proposed IDA credil: of US$6.0 million would be to the Govern-
ment on standard IDA terms.   The credit would finance about 71% of total
Project costs (excluding taxes), including 86% of foreign exchange costs and
40% of local costs. The Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development (the
Fund) would provide a loan of Dh 4 million (equivalent to US$1.0 million) to
the Goverument of Burundi; the terms and conditions of this loan are still
to be negotiated, but it is expected that the loan would carry interest of
about 3% and would be repayable over 10-20 years. This loan would finance a
share of materials, equipment and vehicles, and the Fund and IDA would cooperate
closely in the administration of this part of the Project; IDA and the Abu Dhabi Fund
will exchange an administration letter confirming arrangements to this effect
(including provisions that IDA and Fund disbursements would be in the ratio
of 56:44). The Abu Dhabi Fund loan would finance 11Z of total Project costs
(net of taxes), including 14% of foreign exchange costs and 7% of local costs.
The signature of the Abu Dhabi Fund loan agreement and fulfillment of Fund
conditions of effectiveness would be conditions of effectiveness for the IDA
credit. Local resources in Burundi would contribute about 19% of total Project
costs. Of this amount, the Government's contribution would aimount to about 4%
of total Project costs, which would be offset to the extent that Project costs
include about US$0.13 million for taxes and duties; the Government contribution
exclusive of taxes and duties would be about 2% of Project costs. The Regional
Development Society would contribute about 5% of Project costs in the form of
working capital, while fishermen would finance about 10% of Project costs,
through down-payments for equipped fishing units and through cash purchases of
fishing equipment and materials. IDA's contribution inclusive of taxes and
duties would be about 70% of total Project costs.



- 19 -
3.16      Funds for fishing equipment and materials, development of fishing
centers and stations, fish marketing, and RDS headquarters provided under
the IDA credit and the Abu Dhabi Fund loan (about US$3.0 million) would be
channelled by the Government to the BNDE at 4% interest per annum, repayable
over 10 years after five years grace period. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that funds repaid to BNDE would be utilized for fisheries devel-
opment, following investment plans to be agreed upon annually between BNDE
and the Association. The BNDE would onlend these funds to the Regional
Development Society, which would administer credit and sales operations for
fishermen and which would itself develop fishing centers and stations and
marketing services. Funds for credit to fishermen would be on-lent to the
RDS at 6%, and RDS in turn would onlend to fishermen at an interest rate of
10% for three to six years (para 4.04). Other sub-loans to the RDS for fish-
ing centers and stations, headquarters, and marketing would be at an interest
rate of 8-1/2% for 10 years. BNDE would provide credit to RDS at 8-1/2%
during the procurement of goods and construction of civil works; these funds
would be converted to long-term loans as facilities become operational and
sub-loans are signed with fishermen; funds relating to materials sold to
fishermen for cash would be repaid to BNDE.   The proposed interest rates
for sub-loans to RDS would be adequate to cover administrative costs for
BNDE. The interest rate of 10% proposed for sub-loans to fishermen is 4%
higher than the current BNDE lending rate for agriculture (para 2.20) and
seems an appropriate measure of the cost of capital; the spread of 2% for
BNDE and 4% for the RDS should cover high administrative costs and the
elements of risk involved (including likely difficulties in obtaining insur-
ance for fishing boats).  The interest rate of 8-1/2% for fishing centers
and stations, marketing, and headquarters sub-loans reflects the lower risk
element and lower administrative costs associated with these loans compared
to loans to fishermen, and the spread appears reasonable. Funds for fisheries
extension services and for coastal region development activities would be
channelled directly to the RDS, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock. and
the Bureau Technique d'Etudes, as appropriate. The execution of subsidiary
loan agreements between the Government and the BNDE and between the BNDE and
the RDS, satisfactory to the Association, would be conditions of credit effec-
tiveness. The Government would establish an account equivalent to US$100,000
for RDS to ensure that funds were available to finance Project investments.
Establishment of the account would be a condition of credit effectiveness,
and assurances were obtained during negotiations regarding establishment and
maintenance of the account. In order to expedite the beginning of Project
activities, retroactive financing from February, 1976 of up to US$150,000
would be provided for the employment of key Project staff, preliminary
procurement activities, marketing studies, trials for fiberglass hulls and a
catamaran purse seine prototype, establishment of reforestation tracts, and
construction of RDS headquarters.



- 20 -
E. Procurement (Annex 11)
3.17      The development of effective institutional mechanisms and precedures
for purchasing, assembling and distributing equipment and materials for the
fisheries sub-sector would be important Project objectives. Fishing boats
(metal, wooden and fiberglass hulls assembled as catamarans and trimarans)
(US$0.7 million) would be manufactured locally, by a private firm, by village
boat-builders, and by the RDS. In the case of the RDS, the Government would
submit detailed plans for IDA approval prior to establishment by RDS of facil-
ities for boat building. Outboard motors, lamps, drying racks and trays,
fishing nets, and processing plant equipment (US$0.8 million) would be pur-
chased directly from suppliers; the RDS would advertise in an international
fishing journal and locally and notify embassies and trade representatives
in Bujumbura, seeking expressions of interest, and would then seek quotations
from interested suppliers. The ÏDS would seek to ensure compatibility and
maximum standardization (taking Lnto account considerations of economy), with
existing equipment and materials in procuring new goods. Vehicles and other
equipment (US$0.13 million) would be purchased following solicitation of
quotations from all suppliers represented in Burundi offering adequate
guarantees of service and spare parts. Civil works for fishing centers and
stations, RDS headquarters, and marketing facilities (US$0.38 million) would
be carried out by the RDS by force account, or by local contractors following
local competitive bidding. In view of their small size, remoteness, and
dispersed location, these works would be unlikely to attract international
bids. Government procurement procedures would apply to all purchases, includ-
ing those items outlined above; these procedures are satisfactory. Contracts
for purchases under US$25,000 would not be submitted to IDA for prior approval.
For purchases over US$25,000, IDA approval would be obtained prior to placing
orders. Assurances as to these procedures were obtained at negotiations.
F. Disbursements (Annex 12)
3.18      Funds from the Credit A,-count would be disbursed over five years
on the following basis:
US$ Million
(a) 56% of the foreign exchange costs or 48% of the
total cost of fishing eqluipment and materials,
plant equipment, vehicles, and supplies; the
Abu Dhabi Fund would sirnultaneously disburse
44% of the foreign exchange costs or 37% of
total costsfor these goods (para. 3.15)                   1.3
(b) 90% of the total cost of RDS civil works
(including reforestation)                                 0.3



- 21 -
US$ Million
(c) 90% of total operating costs for RDS
fisheries extension, fishermen training,
local training and fishing trials                         0.1
(d) 100% of the foreign exchange costs or 90% of
total costs for technical assistance, studies
and overseas training                                     2.1
(e) 100% of the foreign exchange coats or 90% of
total costs for regional development studies              0.6
(f) 90% of the total cost of regional development
activities                                                0.6
(g) an unallocated amount representing a part of
price contingencies on the above categories
and transferable to them as appropriate                   1.0
6.0
Disbursements against (a), (d) and (e) would be fully documented; disburse-
ments under (b), (c) and (f) would be made against certificates of expendi-
ture, the documentation for which would not be submitted for review, but
would be retained by the borrower and made available for inspection by
IDA during the course of Project supervision missions. Any funds remaining
in the credit account on completion of the Project would be used for Project
related activities, with IDA approval.
G. Accounts and Audit
3.19      BNDE and the RDS would maintain separate records and accounts
adequate to explain all Project-related activities. BNDE's accounts are
satisfactory; the most recent accounts were for the period to December 31,
1974, and these vere audited satisfactorily soon after the end of the fiscal
year. The RDS is in the process of developing accounting procedures with
BNDE assistance; an accounting plan was submitted during Credit negotiations.
Further, the BNDE will provide assistance to the RDS in: (i) establishing
financial control procedures; (ii) supervising fishermen credit operations;
and (iii) reviewing periodically their financial performance and making
appropriate recommendations. Assurances as to these arrangements were
obtained during negotiations. There are no auditing firms in Burundi; BNDE
currently audits accounts for many commercial enterprises, but under the
proposed Project, BNDE could not audit RDS accounts without creating a conflict
of interest. It is expected that the Bank of Burundi (BRB) vould audit RDS.
BRB currently audits accounts of the BNDE and several commercial banks.



- 22 -
IV.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would have general
responsibility for policy guidance and coordination of all Project activities.
The Regional Development Society for fisheries development (RDS), which is
under the general supervision (tutelle) of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock, would implement all Project components directly related to fish-
eries development, hence provision of equipment and supplies, building and
managing fishing centers and stations, and marketing fish products.  The RDS
would also be responsible for fisheries extension and fishermen training,
and for applied fisheries research and studies, as for example, trials of
new boats or fishing techniques. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
would be responsible for the selection and supervision of technical assis-
tance personnel for fisheries, and for training and studies related to
fisheries development. The Bureau Technique d'Etudes would be responsible
for initiating and coordinating coastal region development activities; pilot
programs would be implemented by thte Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
and by the RDS. The BNDE would channel Project funds, and would have res-
ponsibilities in the area of financial control.
Regional Devleopment Society (RDS) (Para 2.18, and Annex 5)
4.02      The RDS, established in October 1973 in conjunction with the FAO/
UNDP Project, would be developed and expanded under the Project as a quasi-
autonomous agency with broad responsibilities for fisheries development.
When it is fully established, the RDS is expected to have four separate
functional divisions under a general manager: fisheries development, includ-
ing provision of fishing materials and fisheries extension, fish processing,
fish marketing, and administration and finance (see chart). The RDS would
be run along commercial lines and iit should be financially viable, with the
exception of extension activities, training, and applied research. The RDS
would be assisted by internationally recruited technical specialists for
fisheries development, fish processLng, marketing, and management and finance
(para 3.11). Assurance were obtained during negotiations that the Governnent
would consult with IDA on the appointment of the RDS General Manager. A
General Manager has been appointed and participated in credit negotiations.
The appointment of the division chief for administration and finance and his
advisor would be a condition of Creclit effectiveness. It would be a condition
of disbursement for fishing centers and stations that the divisions of fish
processing and marketing were staffed with division chiefs and their advisers.
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that the division chief for
fisheries development and his adviser would be appointed by December 31, 1976.
BNDE (Para 2.20)
4.03      BNDE would channel IDA-financed loans for fishing materials and
equipment, fishing centers, and marketing. It would have direct responsibility



- 23 -
for supervising the credit program for fishermen and for assisting the
Regional Society in developing proper management and procedures and account-
ing systems. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the BNDE
would provide the RDS with the requisite services and supervision, and that
the Government and BNDE would ensure that sufficient qualified staff were
available to accomplish this purpose, including an internationally recruited
advisor.
Management of Project Components
4.04      Fishing Materials and Equipment.  The RDS would import, procure
locally or manufacture fishing materials and equipment, establish and run
centers and stations to assemble, store and sell these materials, and develop
systems for credit or cash sales to fishermen, with BNDE assistance on financ-
ial questions. A distinction would be drawn between provision of fully
equipped fishing units on a credit basis, which would be attached formally
to a fishing center or station, selling all fish there, and the sale, pro-
bably on a strict cash basis, of supplies, parts, fuel and replacement equip-
ment and supplies to a wider group of fishermen. It is expected that under
the Project, qualified fishermen with experience with catamaran liftnet
fishing would be allocated fully equipped units on credit, upon payment of
a downpayment equalling about 5% of the full cost of the unit. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that RDS would: (a) select candidates
for sub-loans on the basis of criteria approved by IDA which would, inter
alia, specify that the borrowers had experience with artisanal fishing and
resided near fishing centers and stations; (b) enter into a contract with
sub-borrowers following a model contract approved by the Association which
would specify the rate of interest; and (c) submit any proposed modifications
in these criteria, model contracts or interest rates for IDA approval. Assur-
ances were also obtained that the RDS would consult periodically with the
BNDE, the Government and IDA on interest rate levels for loans to fishermen.
Proposed criteria for selection of fishermen and a model contract vere dis-
cussed during negotiations.
4.05      Fishing Centers and Stations.  The RDS would expand and manage the
three centers established under the FAO/UNDP Project at Kitaza, Magara and
Rumonge, and establish and manage the two new centers to be established under
the proposed Project, and five new fishing stations.  Each center would have
three principal funetions: provision of fishing equipment and supplies
(para 4.04), processing of fish (brining, drying and smoking), and running
directly a catamaran purse seine unit. The stations would perform similar
functions, except that fish processing would be limited to sun-drying and
there would be no catamaran purse seine units. In addition, the centers and
stations would serve as a base for fisheries extension and practical trials.
The center would have a manager, a foreman for the plant, an accountant,
and a driver/mechanic. Each center would employ between 25 and 35 people,
and each station between 20 and 25 people.
4.06      Fish Marketing.  The RDS marketing division would manage fish
marketing activities. Fish would be supplied primarily from the Project



- 24 -
fishing centers and stations, but the RDS would also organize some collection
services for fresh and dried fish for other fishermen, using trucks and lake
transport. Each center and station would thus serve as a supply center for
the marketing program. The RDS would maintain wholesale depots primarily
in Bujumbura, and would establish secondary depots at important towns and
market centers. Initially, the RDS would rely predominantly on existing
marketing channels to distribute fish to the interior of Burundi. Direct
marketing operations would be confined to promotional activities and to
efforts to develop specific markets not adequately served by traditional
suppliers. The RDS would review its marketing operations on a regular basis,
and might determine, if experience warrants, to enlarge its marketing activ-
ities to assume a more direct role in trade and distribution throughout
Burundi. The RDS would prepare a market study and future marketing plan prior
to commencing work on each new center or station; assurances were obtained
during negotiations that these plans would be submitted to IDA for review,
and it would be a condition of credit disbursement for each new installation
that satisfactory marketing plans had been approved by IDA. Assurances were
also obtained that the RDS would consult with IDA prior to construction of
secondary storage depots outside Bujumbura, procurement of vehicles for
marketing, and establishment of the freezer/cold store unit required for
expansion of export operations for fresh, frozen, or frozen smoked fish.
4.07       Coastal Region Development Activities.  The preparation of a plan
for regional development would be the responsibility of the Bureau Technique
d'Etudes in the Presidency. Following completion of initial studies, the
Government would submit to IDA detailed proposals for preliminary development
activities to be undertaken under the Project. These proposals would provide
greater detail on both physical works to be undertaken and goods to be pro-
vided, and proposed implementation procedures. It would be a condition of
Credit disbursement for these activities that IDA had approved Government
proposals. Assurances were obtained that the Government would seek prior
IDA agreement on the proposed terms of reference for the regional development
study and on the selection of consultants.
Technical Services
4.08       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would have overall respon-
sibility for all technical services for fisheries, including recruitment of
expatriate specialists, approval of terms of reference for consultants and
studies, and organization of special training programs. Assurances were ob-
tained during negotiations that the Government would seek prior IDA approval
of the terms of reference for technical assistants, consultants, studies and
training programs, and would consult vith IDA on the appointment of inter-
nationally recruited technical assistance personnel and key RDS personnel
(Division Chiefs). BNDE would employi a technical advisor following the same
procedures.
4.09       Pollution of Lake Tanganyika.  Lake Tanganyika is particularly
susceptible to pollution, and recent studies have indicated an accumulation



- 25 -
of chemicals in fish, although in quantities well below recognized "danger"
levels (Annex 1, para 20). In order to assess the magnitude of the problem
and its implications for Burundi fisheries development in future, the Project
would include provision for a review of pollution problems in the Lake, with
a view to presenting policy recommendations for future action and for further
research on pollution. There would be close cooperation with ongoing fish-
eries research programs (para 2.14). Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock would undertake this
review, employing consultants whose terms of reference would be approved by
IDA.
Project Implementation and Reporting
4.10      Annex 14 indicates the principal information that would be submitted
to IDA on a regular basis, and the key indicators of Project progress. A list
of key steps in Project implementation and a schedule of Project implementa-
tion are also included. These schedules were discussed during negotiations.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
Production
5.01      The Project would increase Burundi fish production through a series
of inter-related improvements affecting fish catch levels, preservation, mar-
keting and distribution. Specifically, provision of more and better fishing
materials and training in more sophisticated techniques should raise catch
levels; improved processing would preserve fish for wider dissemination; and
strengthening marketing should make it possible to retail fish throughout
Burundi, on a more regular basis. Incremental fish production is estimated
at not less than 10,000 tons of fish (wet weight) a year by 1981, compared
to current production of about 9,500 tons a year. Of this amount, about
7,500 tons a year would be processed (smoked or dried) at fishing centers and
stations, yielding about 2,250 tons of smoked and dried ndagala.
Marketing and Prices
5.02      Fish produced under the Project, fresh, dried, and smoked, would be
marketed both by the Marketing Division of the Regional Development Society
(para. 4.06) and through existing channels (para. 2.10). Part of the catch
would be marketed and consumed fresh (as at present). The RDS would process
about 7,500 tons of ndagala a year. Fish that is not processed at fishing
centers and stations or consumed fresh would be sun-dried in the traditional
manner, which would be improved by provision of drying racks, covers, and
experimental village smoking ovens.
5.03      Fresh fish prices vary from year to year and also seasonally (para.
2.13); 1974-75 fresh fish prices paid to fishermen averaged about FBu 15 per
kilo (US$0.20), and fish prices are now fixed at this level by the FAO/UNDP



- 26 -
fishing centers.  Dried fish prices average FBu 60 (US$.77) per kilo or the
ttiavalu..uc ef FBu 20 (US$0.25) fresh.  Dried, smoked fish is nzo- s30d by the
FAO/UNDP centers at FBu 85 per kilo (US$1.10), or the equivalent of FBu 23
(US$0.29) per kilo of fresh fish. These prices were relatively high when
compared with f.o.b. prices for equivalent fish products imported from Europe,
but are lower than the price for such fish c.i.f. Bujumbura.  Burundi fish
prices are higher than those paid for fish in Tanzania (along the Lake
Tanganyika shore), and substantially lower than those paid in Rwanda.
5.04      Under the ProJect, the RDS would institute a variable pricing policy
for purchasing fresh fish from fishermen.  The price paid would on average be
at about the level of beach market prices; prices would vary on a weekly or
biweekly basis, and would be set by RDS management. This pricing policy
should allow the RDS to obtain more regular fish supplies; fishermen would
have incentives to sell fish to centers, while RDS should be able to guarantee
purchase of the full catch. Prices for RDS dried and smoked fish would vary
also within a lesser range. Prices used for the financial and economic
analysis were current fixed RDS prices which are assumed to represent average
market prices (para. 5.03 and 5.06).
5.05      A significant benefit from the Project should be the stabilization
of fish prices, both on a seasonal basis and among the various regions of
Burundi. This would be accomplishied by improved marketing channels, so
that fish supplies would be more regular, and by increasing and upgrading
the supply of processed fish so that fish could be preserved and stored longer
and transported to all parts of Burundi, at all seasons of the year.
5.06      Estimated per capita fislh consumption in Burundi is low (about 3 kg
per capita a year in 1974) compared with neighboring countries (for example
Zaire 9.9 kg, Tanzania 13.1 kg and Zambia 16.5 kg). 1/ Despite the low
purchasing power of the majority of the rural population, it is expected
that additional fish produced undeir the Project would find a ready market
without reducing average fish prices, provided that adequate processing faci-
lities, storage and marketing channels are developed. This conclusion is
supported by marketing surveys and limited experience to date which indicate
that fresh fish is in great demand., while dried, smoked ndagala is acceptable
to the population in most parts of Burundi. However, given relatively high
and volatile fish prices, and the :Low purchasing pover of the population, the
Project would include measures desiLgned to ensure effective planning of
marketing and pricing policies by t:he RDS (para. 4.06).
Producer and Government Benefits (Annex 15)
5.07      An estimated 3,000 fishing families assisted by the Project would
derive considerable benefits in terms of increased income. Financial rates
of return for artisanal fishing units have been calculated on a model
basis. The rates of return for newly equipped trimaran fishing units with
metal and wooden hulls, would be about 66% and 86% respectively; if the
trimaran catch was only 20 tons a year (little better than an average
1/   Figures based on FAO country profiles.



- 27 -
independent unit with poor equipment catches nov), the rate of return would
still be on the order of 40%. The rate of return for the RDS purse seine
units would be about 45%. These rates of return are high because of: (a) the
incremental character of some investments; (b) the high volatility of fishing
and significant risks involved; and (c) high and volatile fish prices, which
are likely to be sustained by high levels of demand (para 2.09). Given these
factors, the significance of high financial returns should not be over-emphasized.
For these rates of return to be achieved, it would be essential that training
of fishermen be carried out through extension and technical assistance on a
continuing basis, that financial incentives were adequate (prices, marketing
margins), and fishing center management was good, ensuring proper maintenance
and regular supply of materials.
5.08      The financial rate of return for the RDS on its commercial opera-
tions would be about 15%. This does not include the costs or benefits of
extension activities, of training or of Project activities which are con-
ditioned on presentation of satisfactory plans (luxury fish exports, direct
marketing enterprises, boat building). If the full cost of expatriate tech-
nical assistance were not charged to the RDS, the rate of return would be
35%. This might be justified since a substantial part of these costs would
be related to fisheries extension and training, entailing benefits that go
beyond the commercial aspects of RDS activities.
5.09      While 18% of the financing of total Project costs net of taxes
vould be derived from local resources, most of the Burundi contribution vould
be provided by fishermen (10%) and by the RDS (5%), and the cost to the
Government budget would be minimal (2% of total Project costs). The major
revenues resulting from the Project would accrue to the fishermen and to the
RDS, with limited direct revenue for the Government, that derived from in-
creased collection of market and excise taxes. Financial projections indicate
that RDS would make substantial profits following the investment period (Annex
5); RDS statutes provide that profits would be allocated to reserves. A Govern-
ment and BNDE cash flow is at Annex 13.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
6.01      The principal benefits of the Project would consist of increased
production of fish (valued at US$3.8 million a year after year 6), and
improved distribution of fish throughout Burundi (para 5.01). Increased rev-
enues from the Project would principally benefit small-scale fishermen; some
revenues would also go to RDS and the Government (para. 5.09). Increased
production, but particularly improved marketing and distribution should help
to improve nutrition for the rural population, particularly those living in
the interior of Burundi, by providing a regular and relatively cheap source
of protein. Additional benefits which cannot be quantified at this time



- 28 -
would result from agricultural development activities and other pilot programs
undertaken within the Lake Tanganyika shore region under the coastal region
development program. These benefits would be related to rehabilitation of
facilities and extension organization, to new programs initiated under the
Project, and to future benefits derived from the comprehensive development
program to be prepared under the Project, and would comprise largely increased
crop production and improved sociaL services. The training and management
inputs provided under the Project, notably for the RDS and the BNDE, should
also have benefits for institutional development extending beyond the Project
itself.
6.02      The economic rate of return for the Project is estimated at 20%
over 20 years for the fisheries development components of the Project (includ-
ing technical assistance) (Annex 16). The economic calculations assumed that
the wage rate for fishermen and unskilled workers at centers and stations was
valued at FBu 25 a day, the standard agricultural wage rate, which was assumed
to reflect the economic cost of labor more closely than actual wages paid to
f ishermen and workers (FBu 40 to 60 per day). If the rate of return were
calculated using the financial cost of labor, the rate of return would be
14%. Foreign Exchange costs were valued at the rate of US$1 equals FBu 94
(as opposed to the prevailing exchange rate of US$1 equals FBu 78), in order
to reflect more accurately the scarcity value of foreign exchange. If the
rate of return were calculated using the prevailing exchange rate, it would
be 36%.  Estimated fish production Jrom the Project was valued at present
market prices in Burundi (paras. 5.03-5.04); these prices are somewhat below
world market prices for equivalent products delivered to Burundi (para. 5.03).
If the Project succeeds in its objective of providing a regular supply of fish
throughout Burundi at all times of the year, increased production of fish from
the Project would be unlikely to depress market prices, since much increased
production would represent recovery to previous levels of consumption, and the
Project would also serve new markets.
Sensitivity and Risk
6.03      The proposed Project involves some significant risks.  These fall
within three principal categories: (i) that poor management might cause the
RDS to fail to meet physical objectives of the Project, so that fishing
equipment and supplies were not avai]able and processing facilities functioned
inefficiently; (ii) that unfavorable fish prices or higher than expected ope-
rating costs might cause the RDS to cperate at a loss, and might reduce
incentives to fishermen to increase production; and (iii) that services to
fishermen might decline or lapse following the investment period.  The rate
of return is sensitive both to increases in costs, and reduction in benefits,
whether related to price or volume of production: if total costs increased
by 10%, the rate of return would be reduced by 9 percentage points to 11%;
if costs increased by 20% the rate of return would be 4%. A decrease in total
benefits of 10% would lower the rate of return by 10 percentage points, to 10%;
a reduction of 20% would lower the rate of return to 1%. The rate of return
is sensitive primarily because of the large volume of fish purchases in Project



- 29 -
benefits; in fact, alterations in either fish prices or fish production would
result also in reduction in costs, and would not affect returns to the degree
indicated. In order to offset these risks, the Project includes provisions
to strengthen management, including technical assistance, training of counter-
parts and staff, and assistance to the RDS from the BNDE. In order to ensure
careful monitoring of price fluctuations, systematic marketing studies would
be required, and would be reviewed with IDA. Although the Project entails
risks, it nevertheless offers good prospects for yielding substantial financial
and economic benefits for Burundi, and notably for small-scale fishermen, and
for imnproving nutrition; it represents one of the best investment opportunities
available at this time for Burundi.
Employment and Income Distribution
6.04      The estimated 3,000 fishermen who would benefit from the proposed
Project would be drawn in most instances from the poorer segment of the
Burundi population; they would be traditional fishermen or farmers engaged
Ln subsistence farming prior to development. Fishermen would earn between
$300 and $600 a year in net cash income from fishing, in addition to fish
retained for consumption. This compares to the estimated GDP per capita ln
rural areas of US$80, which is close to the absolute poverty level. The
additional fish produced would also benefit the poorest segment of the rural
population by providing an additional source of protein at relatively low
price. Construction of fishing centers, social infrastructure and marketing
and storage facilities would result in increased employment, primarily along
the lake shore, but also throughout the interior of the country. The number
of additional jobs created would be more than 1,500 new artisanal fishermen,
and 200 jobs under RDS; about 300 people might be employed during the construc-
tion period.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  That the BNDE would provide the RDS with requîred technical
assistance for management and finance (para 4.03);
(b)  Regarding RDS fishermen credit operations:
(i) that RDS would select candidates for sub-loans on the
basis of criteria approved by IDA (para. 4.04);
(ii)  that IDA had approved the form of contract between the
RDS and individual fishermen, including interest rates
(para. 4.04);



- 30 -
(iii)  that RDS would submit any proposed modifications in
these criteria, model contracts or interest rates for
IDA approval (para. 4.04);
(iv)  that periodic consultations would be undertaken on
the level of interest rates applied to fishermen
between the Government, BNDE, RDS, and IDA (para.
4.04).
(c)  That RDS would consult with IDA prior to construction
of secondary storage depots and the freezer cold store
unit (para. 4.06);
(d)  That the Government wuld seek prior IDA approval of the
terms of reference for technical assistants, consultants,
studies, and training programs, and would consult with IDA
on the appointment of internationally recruited technical
assistance personnel and the RDS general manager and
division chiefs (para. 4.08).
7.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) Signature of the Abu l)habi Fund loan agreement and fulfill-
ment of Fund effectiveness conditions (para. 3.15);
(b)  Establishment of an account equivalent to US$100,000
for RDS (para 3.16);
(c)  Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the
uovernment and the BNDE and the BNDE and the RDS (para.
3.16);
(d)  Appointment of the RDS division chief for administration and
finance and his advisor (para. 4.02).
7.03      Conditions of Credit disbursement for various Project components
would be:
(a)  for fishing centers and stations, that the RDS division
chiefs for processing and marketing and their advisors had
been appointed (para. 4.02);
(b)  for each fishing center and station, that marketing plans
for such center or such station, had been approved by IDA (para. 4.06);
(c)  for preliminary coastal region development activities, that
IDA had approved detailed proposals (para. 4.07).



- 31 -
7.04      The proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$6.0 million to the Government of Burundi on standard IDA terms.
March 10, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Fisheries Sector
Fisheries Resources
1.        Lake Tanganyika:  represents the most important source of fi~h
in Burundi. Burundi waters of Lake Tanganyika comprise about 2,000 km
which is about 1/16 of the totai area of the lake. Lake Tanganyika has
a total area of about 31,150 km ; the maximum length is about 650 km, the
maximum vidth 48 km, and the total length of the shore-line 1, 00 km.
Besides Burundi, the lacustrian states are TanzanXa (13,500 km of the lake's
surface), Zaire (14,800 km2) and Zambia (2,000 km ). The lake is situated
at an altitude of 773 m; the lake basin is a rift valley formation, and the
lake itself is very deep - 700 m mean, vith a maximum depth of 1,470 m -
and shelf areas are very limited. Along most of the lake shore, the land
rises abruptly in a high and steep escarpment near the lake shore. The
major in-floving rivers to the lake are the Ruzizi in Burundi and the
Malagarazi, which forms the boundary between Tanzania and Burundi. The
Lukuga River in Zaire flous out of the lake, and is part of the Zaire river
system. Table 1 gives general climate data on the lake at Bujumbura.
2.        About 215 species of fish have been identified in Lake Tanganyika,
of which about 135 belong to the family chichlidae. Six species of fish
make up most of the pelagic biomass: two sardine-like species, Stolothrissa
tanganicae (knoun as ndagala in Burundi) and Limnothrissa miodon (known as
lumpu), and their predators: Luciolates stappersii (mukeke), Lates
microlepis (capitaine), L. angustifrons and L. mariae (sangala). The
ndagala represent more than 80% of the catch in Burundi. In general in
Lake Tanganyika, fish life is believed to be limited to the upper 100 m of
lake waters; the vertical extent of oxygenated water has been estimated at
about 60 m in the Burundi waters of the lake.
3.        Research is currently underway to estimate the biomass of the
lake and potential yields. Past research, including acoustic surveys and
biological, limnological and hydrographic studies, have suggested a maxi-
mum sustainable yield of about 300,000 tons of fish a year for the lake,
vith 20,000 - 25,000 tons for Burundi waters. Recent acoustic surveys
have suggested, however, that potential yields may be higher than t mil-
lion tons a year for the lake, and scientists working now in Burundi under
the FAO/UNDP fisheries research project are optimistic that current research
vill confirm that potential yields are indeed significantly higher than vas
previously believed. Some scientists believe the potential may be as high
as 400 kg per hectare per year.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        The two sardine-like species, the ndagala and lumpu, are the most
important flsh from an economic standpoint. They average 60-90 mm long, and
the life cycle is less than a year. Fecundity is high (33,000 ova per female
p.a.) and an exploitation rate of over 30% of the fish population a year may
well be possible. There is a tendency for the number of ndagala to increase
as the number of predators is reduced by fishing, because fewer ndagala are
consumed by the predators. Seasonal fluctuations are very significant for
reasons which are not yet fully kniwn, but which are probably related to the
level of nutrients in lake waters at different times of the year. The peak
in catch in Burundi is between Sepi:ember and January; the catch is very small
from May through July. Annual variLations are also very significant, parti-
cularly for the predators (up to 600%) but also for the ndagala (about 200%),
for reasons which have not yet been fully explained, but which do not appear
to be ln direct relation to the intensity of fishing.
5.        Interior lakes and riversE:  There is also a potential for fisheries
development in two lakes in the north of Burundi - Lake Cohoho (7,200 ha.)
and Lake Rweru (8,560 ha.) and in interior rivers and streams. The catch
in the northern lakes consists almost entirely of Tilapia, and the maximum
production in any year has been less than 1,000 tons. Little research has
been done on these lakes and streans, and no development efforts have been
undertaken; Greek fishermen used to fish on these lakes, but their activities
have now ceased entirely. All fishing now is by individuals using simple
equipment made from local materials.
Development of Fisheries in Burundi
6.        Fishing is not a traditional occupation for the population of
Burundi, and fisheries development Ls of relatively recent origin. When
the first European explorers reached Burundi in the late nineteenth century,
they reported seeing a few fishermen who fished at night from dug-out canoes,
using wooden or rush torches to attract fish, or by day, primarily from the
beaches.  However, most of these fishermen were originally from Zaire, and
in the past the population of Buruncli reportedly disdained and feared the
lake shore to an extent that even high in the hills the traditional houses
were built with the entry facing away from the lake.
7.        The development of significant fisheries activities dates from
the mid-1940's; prior to that time it was assumed that the lake's fisheries
resources were very limited. Belgian scientists began serious studies of the
lake and fisheries resources during a hydrobiological expedition in 1946-47.
Preliminary reports were rather pessimistic, but further studies were optimistic
on prospects for development of traditional ndagala fisheries, and researchers
and administrators proposed an active development program. Systematic data
collection on fisheries was instituted in 1950, and public funds for fish-
eries development were first allocated in the 1951 budget. In 1952 a Fish-
eries Development Service was created under a fisheries development officer,



ANNEX 1
Page 3
to improve traditional fishing techniques, improve preservation techniques,
record the catch, and continue biological investigations. Trials of new
fishing techniques were undertaken, including large-mesh gill nets aimed
at predators, which vere not successful, and purse seines, which gave very
encouraging results. Greek entrepreneurs began to exploit these findings
as early as 1954, when two purse seine units began to operate; by 1958, there
were 12 such units, and their annual catch totalled about 3,500 tons. Further
trials focused on liftnets operated from catamarans, which vere formed by
joining two of the traditional dug-out canoes vith wooden poles. This tech-
nique, which has come to be known as "artisanal" fishing, proved highly
successful, and the number of catamaran units increased from 12 in 1957 to
60 in 1961, 200 in 1966, and over 500 in 1970. The techniques and equipment
employed by the traditional fishermen, using dug-out canoes and scoopnets
improved as they began to use nylon nets and kerosene pressure lamps, instead
of fiber nets and wooden or reed torches, or as they shifted to the "artisanal"
group, using catamarans and liftnets. Table 2 gives data on the development
of the three categories of fisheries and the evolution of the catch of each
group.
8.        Development programs following independence in 1962 have focused
on assistance to the artisanal fishermen and on research. Between 1963 and
1967 the Government emphasized provision of equipment, training of staff for
the fisheries service, and encouragement of fishermen's associatiods, along
the lines of cooperatives.
9.        Legislation governing fisheries in Lake Tanganyika was passed in
1966; this modified earlier regulations enacted before independence. The
1966 regulation established the maximum allowable number of industrial
units (purse seines), requiring them to fish at least 5 km from the lake
shore in order to protect the traditional and artisanal fishermen. A mini-
mum nesh size was indicated and sale of fry prohibited. The law specifies
requirements for fishing permits, and a schedule of fees was introduced for
the industrial units (which continues in force) 1/ and for artisanal fisher-
men (which has never been collected). The limitations on the industrial
fisheries also have not been enforced (para 15). The basic fisheries regula-
tion is included as Appendix 1.
10.       The involvement of international assistance agencies in fisheries
development dates from 1967 when a project for development of artisanal
fisheries vas initiated, and about US$100,000 was provided under the Freedom
from Hunger Campaign.  The project provided for introduction of improved
catamarans and for the establishment of two fishing centers in Burundi on
Lake Tanganyika. It sought to modernize fishing techniques, provide credit
1/   Fees are not specified, since the law provides for bidding for fishing
permits.  Fees paid are reportedly on the order of FBu 150,000-200,000
a year, per fishing unit.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
to fishermen, develop improved processing techniques, and initiate systema-
tic research on fisheries resources. UNDP provided an expert to supervise
implementation of the project.
11.       This small pilot project was followed by an FAO/UNDP project for
a survey and development of fisheries, which provided a total of about
US$725,000 between 1971 and 1973 (BD1/8). The objective of the project
was to develop a plan for development of fisheries on Lake Tanganyika, and
to develop further artisanal fishing. The most important aspect of the
project vas research, which was concerned with biology and limnology.
Careful monitoring of the catch was introduced, and biological research
on population dynamics carried out. The development component was to con-
tinue the programs initiated under the earlier Freedom for Hunger Campaign
project, developing further fishing centers, modernizing equipment, and
improving marketing. A further objective of the project was to explore
possibilities for cooperation in fisheries research and development among
the four countries surrounding Lake Tanganyika.
12.       The troubles which BurundL experienced during 1972 resulted in
the virtual destruction of both the traditional and artisanal fisheries;
the industrial fisheries were large:Ly unaffected. Most small-scale fish-
ermen left Burundi, and boats and equipment were destroyed or taken to
neighboring countries. The developinent portion of the FAO/UNDP project
was recast folloving the restoration of order as a rehabilitation program,
whose primary task vas to restore ecquipment and fishing centers and to
re-train and reorganize the fisheries service and the fishermen.
13.       In 1974, two new UNDP/FAO fisheries development projects were
approved, one for research, and the other for the development of artisanal
fisheries; the latter project is described in detail in Annex 3. The re-
search project is continuing studies of the lake and its fisheries resources,
in cooperation with several North Amrerican universities; research is focusing
on population dynamics, on the establishment of an abiotic index of produc-
tivity, on trophobiotic surveys, and. on continuation of acoustic surveys of
pollution in the lake (see below, para. 20). The possibility of a future
regional research project including Burundi, Tanzania and Zaire is currently
under discussion, and a report on a possible regional development project was
prepared by FAO in 1974 for the Swedish International Development Agency
(Report No. WS/F3766).
The Fisheries Sub-sector in 1975
14.       Industrial Fisheries:  The origins of the industrial fisheries on
Lake Tanganyika are described above in para 7. The industrial fisheries con-
sisted in October 1975 of 18 purse seine units, all owned and operated by
Greek-controlled companies. Each unit consists of a ship measuring between
12-15 meters long by 4-5 meters vide, powered by an inboard motor, a non-
povered skiff to assist in setting and hauling in the net, and three to six



ANNEX 1
Page 5
small light attraction boats carrying lamps of 4,000 to 8,000 candle lights.
The boats are all manufactured in Bujumbura, and are simple in design and
durable. The captains are Greek, and each unit has a crew of 25-35 Burundi
fishermen. The nets measure about 250-500 m long and 50 to 100 m deep; the
minimum stretched mesh size is 10 mm. At dusk, the boat sails out, towing
the skiff and the light boats. On the fishing grounds, the light boats are
abandoned at interval of 200 to 300 meters and all activities cease until
about midnight. The boat then circles a light boat, dropping the seine to
form a complete circle. The net is then pursed with the help of a small
winch equipped with two warping heads. The crew hauls in the cork line and
the seine wings. When the pursing operation is completed, the fish is
scooped out of the bunt with large scoop nets, onto the deck of the boat.
The fish is then boxed according to species into 40 kg boxes which are stacked
on the foredeck. The complete operation lasts approximately one hour and
can be repeated three to six times per night. The boats have no wheelhouse,
and so far none are equipped with power block or echo sounder.
15.       The average catch per vessel is about 400 tons a year; the catch,
however, fluctuates greatly from season to season and from year to year.
The maximum number of purse seine units is theoretically fixed by law at 8,
and the Greek boats are required to fish at least 5 km from the shore and no
less than 50 km south of Bujumbura. Each unit pays about FB. 150,000-200,000
a year for a fishing permit (para 9).  All fish must be sold in the Bujumbura
Central market, and is brought to the market from landing beaches in trucks
owned by the companies.  Despite these regulations, however, some fish is sold
at landing beaches, and fishermen normally receive a ration of fish as compen-
sation. The basic salary of crews is FB 35 a night plus a ration of fish.
16.       Artisanal Fishing:  In early 1975 there were an estimated 200
artisanal units; most are wooden canoes joined by wooden or metal poles
to form catamarans.  Each unit has 5-6 fishermen; most are rowed out at
night to fishing areas, usually within 5 km of the lake shore. Liftnets
are used: these are nets with a small mesh, with a square opening and tapering
down like a deep V, suspended under the boat with ropes attached to four out-
rigger booms at each corner of t e unit. The size of the net is normally
about 6 meters per side, or 36 m . Two or three kerosene pressure lampa are
used to attract fish; these are attached to the poles connecting the boats
(see diagram). The average annual catch of these boats is estimated at be-
tween 10 and 20 tons a year, almost exclusively the ndagala or lumpu. This
amounts to about 75 kg a night per boat, assuming that the boats fish
about 200 nights a year. Fish are sold at markets at landing beaches
along the lake-shore, or are sun-dried by fishermen or their families.
17.       The FAO/UNDP Project has introduced somewhat larger and more
sophisticated fishing units. Boats are made of steel, and last much longer
than the wooden canoes, although they are more expensive. Generally three
are joined to form trimarans, which can use a larger net - 9 m x 9 m or



ANNEX 1
Page 6
2         2
9 m x 12 m; giving a total area of 81 m  or 108 m2.  Simple outboard motors
are used, which permit the units to reach fishing grounds more rapidly and
to go further from shore. Some more powerful lamps have been tried -
(1,000 candle power instead of 500). While some questions have been raised
as to the relative merits of the different units, the larger units should
be able to catch more fish (at least 30 tons a year), while fishermen seem
clearly to prefer them.
18.       Traditional Fishermen.  In 1975, there were an estimated 700 tgadi-
tional fishing boats. Most are dug-out canoes which are imported from Zaire
where large trees are found, although there are some wooden boats made from
planks made in Burundi.  There are an estimated 1000 fishermen in this
category. The traditional fishermen use a lusenga, a nylon scoop net shaped
like a cone, with a hoop about 2 m in diameter, and a shaft 3-4 m long.
Like the artisanal and industrial fishermen, they use kerosene lampa to attract
fish. Most are concentrated wii:h 25 km of Bujumbura. The average catch per
unit is estimated at about 4-5 tons a year. The importance of this sector
has declined as fishermen have progressively adopted the techniques of the
artisanal fisheries, and as a result of the 1972 events.
Some Overall Observations on theW Sub-sector
19.       There is considerable potential for further development of fish-
eries on Lake Tanganyika; while the maximum sustainable yield of fish has
not yet been determined, it is clear that it is significantly higher than
present catch levels. With Burundi's dense population which experiences
serious shortages of protein, the potential market for fish, especially
the ndagala which traditionally form part of the diet of the population,
seems assured, despite the low purchasing power of the population. The
principal constraints to further development would appear to be the following:
(a)  Shortages of fishing materials and equipment; supplies
of essential materials are extremely limited, and chan-
nels for distribution 1:o fishermen poorly developed.
(b) Poorly developed credit: mechanisms for small fishermen.
(c)  Inadequate training for fishermen; since many fishermen
have begun to fish quite recently there is a need for
training in basic techniques and in maintenance of
equipment.
(d) Poorly developed marketing channels for fresh and
processed fish.
(e) Seasonality of fishing iwhich results in surpluses of
fish at some periods andi limited supply at others; with
poorly developed market:Lng channels, fish spoil or fish-
ing effort is reduced.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
(f) Inadequate facilities for fish processing, which limits
distribution of fish to the interior, and storage of fish
for sale during periods when the supply of fresh fish is
limited.
Pollution of Lake Tanganyika
20.       That Lake Tanganyika is particularly susceptible to pollution is
vell known, for the Lake drains a vast basin, and has only one outlet; serious
pollution would thus be an irreversible catastrophe, the more so given the
recency of the discoveries that there are very important untapped fisheries
resources in the Lake. Recent analysis under UNDP fisheries research projects
in Burundi has revealed that accumulations of chemical pollutants, including
DDT, D.D.E., D.D.D., and Lindane, in fish samples are already significant,
ailbeit well below internationally recognized "danger levels". The problem
arises from use of chemicals throughout the lake basin, which includes parts
of Burundi, Rwanda, Tanzania, Zaire and Zambia. However, investigation of
the causes, origins and severity of pollution has been inadequate to assess
the gravity and magnitude of the problem, or to propose remedial actions.
The issue of pollution may eventually have direct implications for Burundi
fisheries development, but its significance for Bank operations appears to
relate more to our increasing involvement in projects within the Lake Tanganyika
basin. Three lines of action should be initiated or continued in the next few
years to ensure an effective response to the problem:
(a) Additional basic research on pollution in the lake
is required, as part of ongoing research programs for the
lake, either on a national level (for the four Lacustinan
countries) or under the aegis of future regional (inter-
national) research efforts, currently being discussed.
(b) In addition to basic scientific work, a broader review
should be undertaken to advise the Governments and inter-
national and bilateral agencies concerned on the magnitude
of existing problems and future actions required, in the
field of research and in preparing future control programs.
The proposed Project includes provision for such a review.
(c) Following recommendations on policies for pollution control,
efforts will be required to implement them. UNDP is
currently seeking to promote regional institutions for the
Lake Tanganyika Basin, and other regional research, develop-
ment and cooperation efforts are at various stages of prepara-
tion. The UN agencies may well be best situated to approach
Governments and to promote necessary cooperation in this field.
November 10, 1975



IBURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projet de D veloppement de la Pêche
Climatic Dl t  - Lake Tanganyika
Informations CI imatiques - Lac Tanganyika
PrecipitatioU Air Temperature £nd Relative Humiditv bv Month
Précipitationg. tem»^rature de l'air et blnsmieito rolgtiv  par mois
Total        Number of
Rainfall/   days of rain/
Precipi-    Nombre de                                                   o
tations      Jours de pre-  Temperature  f air at certain times ( C) and (relative humidity %)
totales      cinitiat4ona    Te-mnerjqtNjre de l'air a certaines heures ( 0C') et (htumid4t-i  ,It-u~~
mm                           0600       Q800                                                       1200 1800  2400
January               177.1             18         2n (85)   23 (75)   27 (61)   25 (65)   24 (74)   21 (86)               janvier
February               93.8             17         21 (86)   24 (73)   27 (60)   26 (64)   25 (68)   22 (84)               février
March                 111.9             19         21 (87)   24 (76)   27 (66)   26 (72)   24 (75)   21 (57)               mar6
April                 159.2             22         20 (88)   22 ( 3)   24 (68)   26 (68)   25 (71)   23 (86)               avril
May                    85.4             13         19 (83)   22 (76)   27 (62)   26 (67)   24 (62)   20 (86)               mai
June                   54.9              2         17 (86)   21 (77)   26 (61)   26 (61)   24 (63)   18 (85)               juin
July                    0.0              0         16 (86)   21 (76)   26 (61)   25 (59)   24 (65)   18 (87)               juillet
August                  0.9              1         17 (78)   23 (66)   27 (62)   26 (60)   24 (62)   20 (71)               août
September              79.1             il         18 (81)   25 (65)   28 (60)   26 (65)   24 (67)   20 (77)               septembre
October                87.3             16         19 (80)   24 (66)   28 (71)   26 (61)   24 (66)   20 (79)               octobre
November               58.2             21         20 (82)   24 (60)   27 (59)   24 (73)   23 (77)   20 (85)               novembre
December               91.2             18         20 (86)   23 (70)   26 (60)   25 (67)   24 (78)   21 (86)               décembre
Source: FAO ReDorts cn Fisheries Development Project
Source:  Rapports FAO sur les projets de Développement de la peche
Dec-ber 17, 1975
1l 17 d4e.mbre 1975



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOWMENT PROJECT
Projet de d&veloppeuent de la pbche
Development of Fish Catch 1950-74, Lake Tanganyika
Evolution de la prodaction 1950-1974 - Lac Tanganyika
TrAditional Fishermen                    Artisanal Fishermen                               Industrial Fishermen
Pêche coutuoièr                          Pêhe artisanale                                  P8che industrielle
Ndagala      Predators/      Units/      Ndagala       Predatorst       Units/   Ndagali                Predators                Unts/ I         Total
Voraces        Unitér                     Voraces        Unités                             Voraces                Unités   (m. tons)    ke/ha
(M. tons)               (no.)           (<n. tons/tonnes)                                         (m. tons)                  no. ,
1950                 _   1,010    -             -             -              _              _                     -                                 -         1,010         6.1
1951                 -   1,500    -             -             _                           -                  -                -                         -     1,500         9.1
1952               2,500          500          1,360                                        _          _                      _                     -         3,000        18.2
1953               3,000          240           -             -              -                               -                -                            , 3,220         19.5
1954               4,000          600          1,512          -               _             -          -                     317                    2         4,917        29.8
1955               4,200          500          1,578          -               -                                              482                     2        5,182        31.4
1956               2,675          400          1,300          -               -             -       1,257                    560                    4         4,892        29.6
1957               5,065          500          1,572          -               -             12      1,648                  1,264                    8         8,477        51.3
1958               6,176          500          1.500  ''      -               -             12      1,038                 2 619                     12       10,333        62.6
1959               5,617          500          1,475          600             20            32       1,617                 1,729                    12        10,083       61.0
1960               4,412          500          1,488          304             23            32      1.454                  1,427                    12        8,120        49.2
1961               2,617          250          1,458          397             13            59      1.326                    637                     8         5.240       3! 7
1962               3,635          300          1,458          939             82            56       1,114                6,uâ                       8         7,151      43.3
1963               7,082          250          1,343          821             75            82         936                 1,460                     9       10,624        64.3
1964               6,310           46          1,343   j   1,415             64            127      1,974                    624                     9       10,433        63.2
1965              15,537           -           1,660        2,041            93            180      2,376                    310                     8       20207       122.3
1966               9,983          118          1,624        2,549            108           198      3,320                    619                    10        16,697      101.1
1967               6,578           55          1,624   I   1,907              40           221      2,758                    948                     8        12.286       74.4
1968               5,556          193          1,624        1,422             71           221      2,578                  1,207                    10        11`027       66.8
1969               6,230           67          1.380        4,889            234           506      2,026                  1,548                    il        14,994       90.8
1970               4,064           10          1 459        3,473           287            516      2,765                  1,328                    14        11,927       72.2
1971               5,963            3          1,459        4,693            183           516      4,133                    207                    15        15,382       93.1
1972               1,258          588            357        1,238           320            134      2,822                    423                    13        6.361        38.5
1973          ~~~1,145       422             34        1,313             24            96      3,491                    724                    14      j 7119         43.1
1974               1,140          125                       3.099            22R          178       3,815                    R43                    17        9,548       57.8
Source:  FAO/UNDP Fisheries Projects Data, Annual Report, Department of Waters  and Forests.
Source:  FAO/PNUD,Informations fournies par les projets de pêehe,  et Rapport annuel, Départment des eaux et forèts.  -
December 17, 1975
le 17 décembre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 1
Table/Tableau 3
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projet de Développement de la Pêche
Production of Fish by Species - 1974
Producetio-n de poi ssons par espèce - 1974
(tons/tonnes)
Total Production by
Type of Fisheries/
Predators/      Other/         Production totale
Type of Fisheries            Ndagala        Voraces        Autres         par mode de pêche       Mode de Dêche
Traditional fisheries        1,640               3           122                 1,765            Pêche coutumière
Artisanal fisheries          3,099              26             2                 3,127            Pêche artisanale
Industrial fisheries         5,086           1,125            -                  6,211            Pèche industrielle
Total              9,825          1,154           124                11,103            Total
Source:  Annual Report, Department of Waters and Forests
Source:  Rapport Annuel, Département des eaux et forets
December 17, 1975
le 17 décembre 1975



ANNEX/AN EXE  1
Table/Tableau 4
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projet de Développement de la P6che
Value of Fish Production - 1971-7i
Valeur de la Production de la pêche - 1971-74
(FBu' 000)
(Milliers de FBu)
Year     Traditional Fisheries    Artisanal Fisheries    Industrial Fisheries   Total
Annee      Pé&che coutumière        P&ehe artisanale        Peche industrielle    Total
1971            34,437.                   35,383                 60,896          130,716
1972             3,L10                     9,596                 60,553           73,559
1973              - - - - - l1,373 - - - - -                     80,211           91,584
1974            25,062                    45,279                106,183          176,524
Source:  Annual Report, Departirent of Water and Forests
Source: Rapport Annuel, Département des eaux et forets
December 17, 1975
le 17 décembre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 1
Table/Tableau 5
BURUNI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projet de Développement de la Pèche
Fishing Units in Use and E'stimated Number of Fishermen
Unités de pêche utilisées et  estimé du nombre de pécheurs
March 1972/   Estimated Fishermen/    March 1975/    Estimated Fishermen!
Mars 1972                               Mars 1975
Canoes                                                                                                Pirogues
Wood               1,054              2,108                  682                1,364           Bais
Metal                 37                  74                  60                  120           Métal
Total              1,091              2,182                  742                1,484           Total
Catamarans                                                                                            Catamarans
Wood                 326              1,304                  168                  672           Bois
Metal                 63                252                   15                   60           Métal
Total                389             1l556                   183                  732           Total
Trimarans                                                                                             Trimarans
Wood                  27                 162                  33                   198          Bois
Metal                  2                  12                  35                  210           Métal
Total                 29                 174                  68                  408           Total
Quatrimarans                                                                                          Quatrimarans
Wood                   0                 -                     1                     8          Bois
Metal                  0                                       2                    16          Métal
Total                                   __                     3                   24           Total
Total Units                                                                                           Total Unités
Wood               1,407             3,574                   884                2,242           Bois
Metal                102               338                   112                  406           Métal
Total              1,509             3,912                   996                2,648           Total
December 8, 1975
le 8 décembre 1975



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ministerial Ordinance Amending the Regulations
On Fishing in Lake Tanganyika - 1966
IN VIEW OF:
--   the Law of August 21, 1925 of the Government of Ruanda Urundi,
-    Decree-law No. 02/235 of July 15, 1961 on the institutions of Burundi,
--   Decree-law No. 01/214 of June 27, 1961 on the regional implications
of water and forestry questions, and
--   Ruanda Urundi Ordinances No. 5520/243 of November 13, 1953 and
No. 5520/264 of December 12, 1959 concerning regulation and restric-
tion of net fishing in Lake Tanganyika,
THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE HEREBY ORDERS:
CHAPTER I
Definitions
1.   For purposes of the present ordinance, the following definitions shall
apply:
(a) Industrial fishing:
All f ishing carried out from a craf t more than 8 m in length,
whether power-driven or not, and including the following
equipment:
1 main craft more than 8 m in length used to
tow fishing gear;
1 craft equipped with nets, non power-driven
and of a maximum length of 8 m;
4 small lamp boats, each fitted with 2 kerosene
pressure lamps;



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 2
either a purse seine net no more than 500 m and
with maximum faill of 90 m;
or a lift net on which the headrope at the open-
ing shall be more than 10 m;
or setnets whose total length shall not be over
5,000 m;
or a floating longline or driftnet whose total
length shall net be over 10,000 m.
Only one type of gear shall be used in the course of a single
fishing trip.
(b) Artisanal fishing:
All fishing carried out from catamaran-type craft, made
either of wood or metal, whether power-driven or not, and
including the following equipment:
-    2 canoes constnrcted of either wood or metal and
braced together by means of two crosspieces;
-    3 kerosene presE;ure lamps;
-    1 liftnet on which the anchored rope at the
opening shall be under 6 m;
-    a small motorboat for towing trawling equipment;
-    either setnets of a total length not over 2,500 m;
-    or a floating longline or driftnet of a total
length not over 2,500 m.
(c) Traditional fishing
All fishing carried out fram canoes, constructed either of
wood or metal, whether power-driven or not, and including
the following equipment:
-    a canoe or other craft of the same type of a
total length not in excess of 7 m;
-    traditional fishing gear, which may include:



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 3
either a beach seine hauled from the shore;
or setnets of a total length not over 1,000 m;
or a scoopnet of the traditional type known
as a "lusenga";
or a floating longline or driftnet of a total
length not over 1,000 m.
CHAPTER II
Fishing Licenses
2.   Except in cases especially authorized by the Minister of Agriculture,
fishing with any kind of net whatever on Lake Tanganyika is subject
to issue of an annual Government license expiring on December 31 each
year.
3.   The license issued shall depend on the type of fishing in which the
applicant engages. There shall be three classes of license:
1.   Industrial fishing license:  one for each industrial
fishing craft.
2.   Artisanal fishing license:  one for each artisanal
fishing craft.
3.   Traditional fishing license:  one for each traditional
f ishing craf t.
4.   A tax shall be payable on issue of each fishing license.  The rates
applicable shall be as follows:
Traditional fishing license:         No charge payable.
aArtisanal fishing license:          FBu 1,000 a year.
Industrial fishing license:          By sealed bid, licenses being
awarded to the highest bidders
in accordance with the limit
on numbers imposed under
Article 10 below.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 4
As these new regulations concerning fishing licenses come into
force in 1967, industrial fishing licenses shall become renewable
as of January 1, 1967. Sealed bids shall therefore be delivered
to the Director of the Waters and Forests Department on or before
December 20, 1966.
5.   Fishing licenses shall be issued on the condition that applicants
undertake to:
1.   Comply with the legislation and regulations promul-
gated by the competent authorities in matters con-
nected with berthing.
2.   Refrain from returning all or part of their catch
to the water.
3.   Make full use of the:Lr licenses to operate in Burundi
waters and satisfy the authorities in this respect.
4.   Observe the highest standards of cleanliness and
hygiene in the maintenance of fish tanks so as to
avoid multiplication of bacteria.
5.   Provide the authorities with a statement of their
catches in accordance with regulations to this
effect issued by the Minister of Agriculture.
6.   Industrial fishing licenses shall be issued by the Minister of
Agriculture on the advice of a consultative commission made up
of the Director of Waters and Forests his adviser, the officials
responsible for the promotion of fishing on Lake Tanganyika and
their advisers.
7.   In the case of conviction for violation of legislation concerning
fishing activities, weights, measures or prices, the grant of a
fishing license may be refused.
8.   Should proceedings for alleged violation of legislation concerning
fishing activities, weights, measures, or prices be initiated against
the holder of a fishing license, the authorities may ipso jure suspend
that license.
9.   Industrial and artisanal fishing licenses are personal, and may be
assigned or leased only with the express authorization of the
Minister of Agriculture.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 5
10.  The number of industrial fishing permits granted shall not exceed 8.
11. Sealed bids for the renewal of industrial fishing licenses shall
reach the Minister for Agriculture by December 20 of each year.
12. Artisanal fishing licenses shall be issued by the administrator of
the province acting on the advice of the consultative commission.
Traditional fishing licenses shall be issued by the mayor of the
commune.
CHAPTER III
13.  Use of the following fishing gear on Lake Tanganyika shall be prohibited:
1.   nets having a mesh of less than 10 mm, stretched
meshes, anchored nets;
2.   all bottom trawl nets, except seine-nets cast from
the shore;
3.   Muslin mosquito netting of the type used to take fry
is especially prohibited, as is all fishing for fry.
Officials of the Fisheries Administration shall be
instructed to confiscate and render unsuitable for
consumption all fry offered for sale or landed.
4.   Any fishing gear not complying with the regulations
in force and forming part of the equipment of a fish-
ing craft shall, upon detection by an official of the
Fisheries Administration, be considered prohibited
gear, and shall immediately be confiscated. The mere
fact that such an item of gear is found aboard a fish-
ing craft shall be sufficient grounds for considering
it a prohibited item, even though at that moment it
may not actually be in use for purposes of fishing.
14.  Industrial fishing is prohibited within a limit of 5 km from the
shore. Artisanal and traditional fishing shall be unrestricted in
this sense.
15. The holders of industrial fishing licenses shall be obliged to
sell any catch in its entirety in Burundi. They shall not be
authorized to sell their catch at quayside or at any place other
than the principal markets in Bujumbura, except on the express
authority of the administrator of the province, approved by the
Minister of Agriculture.



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1
Page 6
16.  Only the holders of industrial fishing licenses granted by the
Burundi authorities shall be entitled to sell their catch in
Burundi, except on the express authorization of the Minister
of Agriculture.
17.  Sale of fish by holders of artisanal and traditional fishing
licenses shall not be subject to any restrictions.
18. Infractions of this ordinance shall be liable to the penalties
prescribed under Article 69 of the Decree on Hunting and Fishing
dated April 21, 1937.
19. Infractions of this ordinance shall be liable to judgment in the
local courts, within the limits of their jurisdictions.
20.  Decree-law No. 5532/243 of November 13, 1958, to the extent that
it is based on Ruanda Urundi Ordinance No. 5520/265 of December 12,
1959 (sic) and Ruanda Urundi Ordinance No. 5520/264 of December 12,
1959 embodying regulations and restrictions on net fishing in Lake
Tanganyika (q.v.), are hereby rescinded.
21.  This ordinance shall come into force on January 1, 1967.
Given at Bujumbura, March 5, 1966.
THE DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER AND MINISTER OF
AGRICULTURE



Et
.1111 1 1,,51,1111f1.1  {'11   1'''''   ''         7I I I                      r I, 1;î;'î 1                    j                                                                                                                                               0t   7:S11S*
X   \<\   |       ! +                                      e'à                                                                                         ,                                        l             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l 
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - ----  -  --  - -  -- -- -- - -  -  -  -  -_-  -__- -__________---
JJ                                                    ZE                                                                                                                                       e          - 
o                                                                                                                                                                                                     o..           I
LU  CE             o8
o                                                                                                                                                                                        J
>                                                                                                                                                                0             I
0                                                                                                                               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
w> w~~                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I 
I                              -






ANNEX 2
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fish Marketing and Processing
Background
1.        This annex describes present fish marketing in Burundi and its
implications for the proposed project. It is based on the findings of the
appraisal mission and on a study undertaken by an FAO marketing consultant,
Mr. L. Vidaeus, in late 1974.
The Products
2.        While some 200 species of fish are caught in Lake Tanganyika, over
80% of the catch consists of two small clupeid species, 60 - 90 mms long,
ndagala and lumpu 1/.   The balance consists of their predators.  The
industrial units (para 2.07) catch a larger proportion of predators than
the artisanal or traditional units.
3.        Practically all the predator catch is sold fresh for immediate
consumption. Ndagala is sold either fresh or sundried. A proportion of the
ndagala sold fresh is dried by middlemen or by the ultimate consumers to
conserve it for future consumption.
4.        Consumers generally view ndagala as a supplement to the diet rather
than as a main dish. Usually it is made into a sauce mixed with fresh
vegetables or fruits, which is then poured over a cassava gruel. The portion
of dried fish per person per meal is in the range of 25 - 40 grams.
Consumption patterns
5.        Virtually the entire predator catch is sold at the central market
of Bujumbura; although preferred by most Barundi, the predators may be
considered as luxury fish as they are generally consumed by the upper class,
and command high prices.
6.        Most ndagala, fresh or dried, is consumed near the coastal plain.
Distribution channels to the interior are in an embryonic stage at present.
The FAO marketing study (para. 1) estimated that the annual consumption per
capita in the coastal area amounted to kg 7.7; it dropped to 1.1 in the rest
of the country. The following conclusions emerged: (i) 22% of Burundi's
1/   In the following paragraphs, all references to ndagala apply to the
Lumpu as well. See Annex 1, page 1.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
population is completely deprived of fish; (ii) another 60% consumes less
than 2.9 kg of fish a year per capîta; and (ULi) the remaining 18% of the
population consumes on average more than 2.9 kg per annum per capita.
7.        The reasons for the imbalance between the coastal area and the rest
of Burundi are that: (i) purchasing power is often less in rural areas; (ii)
in the relatively rich coffee-growLng areas, crops are marketed in summer (June-
July); this therefore corresponds ito the highest purchasing power of that
population but also to the fish production slump (para. 2.06); (iii) the rural
population tends to live in isolated huts rather than in villages; this hinders
the development of a distribution network; and (iv) poor roads, limited fish
processing facilities, and limited marketing channels impede transport of
fish to the interior.
8.        Consumers in the coastal areas show a clear preference for fresh
ndagala when available. On the other hand, consumers in the interior seldom
have the choice between fresh and clried fish, and consequently do buy the
dried product. Refrigerated transport has not been introduced to Burundi,
and is not likely to develop in the near future, in view of the high costs
involved and the factors outlined in para 7 above.
Consumption Trends
9.        Available records indicate (Annex 1, Table 2) that the total fish
catch in the 1965-1971 period fluctuated between 11 and 16,000 tons per annum.
The 1972 events (para. 2.06) caused a severe drop in production, for the
traditional and artisanal sectors, while the industrial units were far less
affected.
10.       While production has increased since 1972 (from 6,400 tons in 1973,
to 9,500 tons in 1974), it remains far below the average level of the 1965-
1971 period (some 15,000 tons per annum). As a result, even if per capita
consumption remains stagnant, the flurundi market should at present be able
to absorb at least 20,000 tons of fish a year. However, if one considers that:
(i) only a fraction of Burundi's population has access to fish at present
(para 6), (ii) that the present annual per capita consumption is low in compari-
son with other countries (the per capita consumption in the coastal area at 7.7
kg is lower than neighboring countries as table 2 indicates), and (iii) export
markets have not yet been investigated; it would appear that there is consider-
able scope to expand the market. In Zaire or Malawi, annual consumption per
capita is 9 - 10 kg.; to meet such a consumption level in Burundi, production
could increase to an annual level of 36,000 tons. This compares with a current
production level of about 10,000 tons and a 10,000 tons increase under the
proposed Project.
il.       Recent developments would indicate that Burundi could also export
fish. Dried ndagala from Lake Tanganyika is presently sold in Rwanda at
4-5 times the price in Burundi; recent trade agreements between the two



ANNEX 2
Page 3
countries eliminate duties on fish. While the market potential in Rwanda
has yet to be investigated, it appears very promising. Further, under the
FAO project, fresh and smoked predator fish were test marketed in Belgium,
and the reception appears to have been favorable. While the long-term
viability of fish exports to Europe may be considered as doubtful, nevertheless
luxury fish could probably be exported successfully to neighboring countries
with larger markets.
Distribution channels
12.       The entire catch of the industrial units is sold, as stipulated by
law, at the Bujumbura Central market; further, a large proportion of the catch
of traditional units, particularly in the Bujumbura area, is sold at the
same market.  It is estimated that 75% of the fish catch in Burundi transits
through that market.
13.       The Bujumbura market acts both as a wholesale market for the catch
of the industrial units and as a secondary market for fresh and dried fish.
There are no refrigeration facilities so that most of the catch must be sold
in the morning, a few hours after the fishermen return; any unsold fish is
sold in the afternoon, in smaller markets in the Bujumbura area. There is
no doubt that the system results in substantial losses of fish through
spoilage.
14.       The catch of artisanal and traditional units is usually sold on the
landing beaches.  The proportion of fish dried on the beaches tends to in-
crease with the distance from Bujumbura. While there is a preference in the
coastal area for fresh fish (para 8), it is not possible to assess at present
the proportions of ndagala ultimately consumed fresh or dried.
15.       Quantities of fish reaching the hinterland cannot be assessed
accurately at present. Fresh fish reaches the Bubanza and Gitega areas as
they are linked to Bujumbura by good roads. On the other hand, supply of
fresh fish to the other areas is very irregular, and consists mainly of
ndagala. Fishermen and intermediaries carry fish in crates (approximately
40 kg), either on their heads, or by bicycle. All distribution is done at
present by the private sector.
16.       Dried ndagala, sold in bulk at the Bujumbura market or at the
landing beaches, penetrates more to the hinterland, than fresh fish, and
particularly to the Northwest area (Ngozi, Muramvya, Bubanza), and much less
in the other areas (Table 3).  Private traders purchase fish from fishermen,
wholesale it at Bujumbura (Table 4), and retail it in the interior of Burundi.
Prices
17.       In view of the fact that: (i) there are wide annual fluctuations in
fish catch (para. 2.06), (ii) fising does not take place during the full-moon
(para. 2.07), and (iii) dried fish is not available during the rains (para.
2.08), the price of fish fluctuates widely during the year. Daily prices
are extremely sensitive to the quantities of fish sold.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
18.       As tables 5, 6 and 7 indicate, the Bujumbura wholesale price of
ndagala in the 1973-74 period fluctuated between FBu 7.7 kg (October -
November) and FBu 27.4 kg. (May - June). On average, the wholesale price
was approximately FBu 12 - 15 kg. The price of dried ndagala fluctuates
equally between FBu 50 kg and FBu 180 kg (equivalent to FBu 16 - 60 kg of
fresh fish). 1975 prices were some!what higher. Data on prices outside
Bujumbura is scanty at present; it is expected that if the proposed Project
is implemented, a better data base will develop. At present, it must be
emphasized that figures on prices are largely indicative.
Marketing strategy for the RDS
19.       Under the proposed project, the RDS would market (i) dried and
smoked ndagala (60% of sales); (ii) dried ndagala (34% of sales); and (iii)
small quantities of fresh ndagala and predators. The fresh fish would be
sold directly at the centers if thEre is a sufficient demand, and otherwise
at the Bujumbura central market.
20.       Under the FAO/UNDP project (para. 25), processed fish has been
packaged in 200 gm. plastic bags and shipped in 10 kg cartons. This represents
an innovation in several ways: (i) the traditional product was dried on the
sand, and therefore contained impurities; (ii) a higher protein content due
to more dehydration; (iii) a longer conservation period due to the combination
of salting, drying and smoking; (iv) ease of transport due to the better
packaging; and (v) the set-up of distribution channels based on weight units
and fixed prices, instead of sales in bags, or crates, with variable contents,
on the basis of the highly fluctuating market price. As a result, to the
Burundi consumer, this largely constitutes a new product. It appears that
the product met initially with some resistance, particularly in the Bujumbura
area (where it competes with fresh fish and sand-dried fish); one reason
appears to be that consumers are used to buying the fish in small (unweighed)
amounts, and they normally touch the fish to evaluate its quality. On the
other hand, the reception appears to have been better in the hinterland.
21.       The FAO/UNDP study (para. 1) proposed that the marketing effort
should be oriented to the following consumer groups: (i) institutions;
(ii) private wholesalers; (iii) secondary sales depots; and (iv) public markets.
Institutional buyers (schools, missions, hospitals, army, etc.) could repre-
sat (army excluded) up to 80,000 persons.  This group offers the following
advantages: (i) a constant demand through most of the year; (ii) large single
deliveries; and (iii) good promotion for the new product. The FAO study
concluded that this group should be able to absorb the bulk if not the whole
production of processed fish under the FAO Project. Another benefit of this
selling strategy would be that the RDS would be able to concentrate its efforts
in the initial years on production rather than on sales.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
22.       The reaction of private wholesalers to the improved product has been
positive. While this group constitutes the second consumer target, the FAO
study does not recommend, at least in the early stages, a substantial selling
effort in their direction because: (i) such wholesalers have a strong position
already in the hinterland and would tend to sell fish at prohibitive prices; and
(ii) such sales might be made at the expense of institutions with long term
supply contracts.
23.       While indications are that the RDS should have no difficulties in
finding a market for fre8h and dried fish (para. 10), data available and
experience to date mitigate against firm conclusions. An important unknown
remains the purchasing power of the hinterland population and their product
preferences. While data on costs, (Annex 5) have been developed on the basis
of models for the RDS, as the FAO/UNDP project did not operate on a commercial
basis, only actual experience will provide a valid data base. Under the
proposed Project, RDS would have to submit to the Association, prior to the
construction of any new center or station, a marketing plan. This plan should
include inter alia:
i)  a statement on the sales performance of the RDS
.ver the past year focusing on (a) prices at
which the different products were sold; (b) break-
down of consumers by categories and quantities
purchased by each; (c) long-term supply agreements
(quantity and prices); and (d) inventory of trans-
port and storage facilities.
(ii)  past and projected data on fixed and variable costs
of the existing and contemplated facilities (inclu-
ding purchasing price, fish treatment and packaging,
transport and storage); and
(iii) proposed marketing strategy for the output of the
new center.
24.       The proposed Project includes provisions for sales depots in the
hinterland and cold storage facilities at Bujumbura. Prior to constructing
such facilities, the RDS should also be asked to prepare notes justifying
such expenditures in terms of contemplated benefits.
Fish Processing - Technical Aspects
25.       The FAO/UNDP financed fish processing plant at Kitaza has now
operated for approximately two years. Fish is purchased from fishermen
attached to the center. The fish is brined, dried, smoked and packaged for
market. The packaging consists of a clear plastic bag containing 200 gr. of
smoked fish, packed 50 per carton.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
26.       The operation starts around six o'clock in the morning when fisher-
men land at the beach. The ndagala is first treated in a salt brine (1:10
salt and water) for 20 to 30 minutes, and then spread out on drying racks
to be dried in the sun. The time required for drying varies greatly accord-
ing to weather conditions. Plastic covers are provided to cover the fish to
prevent spoilage.  After drying, the fish is collected from the drying racks
and loaded onto smoking trays which are placed into smoking ovens for six to
seven hours. The fish is then retady to be packaged as described above. The
smoking capacity of the Kitaza center is about 1.5 tons fresh fish equiva-
lent per smoking oven or 4.5 tons per day.
27.       A second fishing center at Magara began operation in March 1975.
It has been equipped with an artificial dryer in order to avoid or minimize
fish spoilage during the prolongEd rainy period. Long delays in delivery
of the dryer and parts made it impossible to test run the machinery before
the appraisal mission left Burundi. Essentially, the dryer consists of an oil
fuelled heater which heats the air in a tubular chamber. The heated air is
then force fed into the drying chaamber by a large powered fan. For experi-
mental purposes, the hot air conduct has been connected to one of the existing
smoke ovens which will serve as a drying oven in the first part of the operation
and then as a smoke oven. If thîs proves successful, the hot air could be piped
into the second smoke oven. There seems to be no discernable reason why the
system should not work successfully. One potential problem might be the
possiblity of cooking the wet fish on the drying racks if the temperature of
the air were too high. This should however, represent no major problem since
cooking could be avoided by carefully controlling the temperature in the early
stages of drying.
Proposed Freezer and Cold Store Unit - Bujumbura
28.       The UNDP project has carried out a small pilot operation in freezing
fillets of capitaine (Nile Perch), smoked Mukeke and a smoked mock salmon made
with capitaine. The operation sc far has been conducted on a very small scale,
with fish purchased at the Bujumbura market, treated, frozen in domestic deep
freezers and sold locally or air shipped to Brussels. The experiment seems to
indicate possiblities of economic viability for a larger scale operation, par-
ticularly since SABENA is offering reduced airfreight rates for transport between
Bujumbura and Brussels. In view of the possiblity of developing a small but
lucrative export market for luxury products, the Project includes a small
freezer - cold storage unit for Bujumbura. The unit would consist of one plate
freezer with a one-ton a day capacity and a three to five ton capacity cold
store. The freezing capacity could be easily expanded by the addition of new
units as the need arises. As foi the cold store facility, it is now believed
that 5 ton capacity would be sufficient. The prospects of operating a freezer-
cold store unit for the export of luxury products appear to be most attractive.
The projections indicate a net return before depreciation of almost 2.5 times
the initial investment (see Table 18, Annex 9).
January 6, 1975



ANNEX/ANN EXe  2
TpMe/Ta1Fleau 1
BURllIDI
FISHERISS DEVEIDPMENT PROJWCT
Pro3et de Déve2.SoppMet de- l Piche
latimted Popuiltion et hrudi by Povinem      LN&atriei -   IZ71
PoDulation estimative du Burundi par province et arrondissement - 1971
Area/      Population 1971    Density         Number or          Number of
Province           District/           Surface           t°°°            per km        Communes/             Hills/
Arrondissement         km2                              Densité       Nombre de          Nombre de
Par k2        Communes            Collines
Bhbana           Eubanz                   1,190            112             93               2                  60
Oibitoke                1. 0              112             76              2                   3
Total              2.670            224             84               4                  98
BoJunkmra j/    Bujumbura                   270            112            415              2                   15
Xvisale-                  985            224            228               6                 135
Total              1,255            336            268               8
Bururi .1        Enni                     2,240            229            102              6                  165
Makamba                 2,44G            158              65              5                 108
Total              4,6               87             83                 1       1       273
Git.e.           Dukitagazi               1.025            219            214               4                155
-itega                   1,065            235            221              4                 123
[arusi                  12                 48            120              3                 107
Total              3.320            602            181              il
Muyinga U/riundo                         2,060             235            114              5                151
)hyinga                  1.435            194            135
Total              3405             429            123              10                326
Iâlramwa         Mre»Wya                    665            189            284              4                  91
);ae                      845             209            247              5                 125
Total              1,510            898            264               9                216
Egosi            [Yana                    1.330            400            307               8                315
Ugesi.                  11,265            286            226              7                 tu
Total              2.595            694            26
Ruiigi           Caskuzo                  1,815             82             45               2                122
RuVana                   1,395            122             87              3                 102
Ruyigi                  2,235             143             64              5                 174
Total              5.44             3                64             10                398
TOrAL COUJTR                             24,.970         3,417            137             78               2.427
Total Pays-                                                                                                 __
I/ Fishing district.
1/ Zone de pAche.
December 17, 1975
le 17 décembre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 2
Tahle/Tableau 2
BURUNDI
FISHUIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projet de Développement de la Pêche
Per Capita Fish Cc sumption in Selected African Countries - 1970
Consommation de poisson par habitant dans plusieurs pays africains
Fish Consumption
Country                         Consommation de poisson                             Pays
kg p.a.
Burundi                                    3.2                                      Burundi
Congo                                     28.3                                      Congo
Liberia                                   22.2                                      Liberia
Gabon                                     16.6                                      Gabon
Zambia                                    16.5                                      Zambie
Uganda                                    15.0                                      Ouganda
Sierra Leone                              14.7                                      Sierra Leone
Mali                                      14.1                                      Mali
Tanzania                                  13.1                                      Tanzanie
Dahomey                                   11.4                                      Dahomey
Zaire                                      9.9                                      Zaire
Malawi                                     8.8                                      Malawi
Niger                                      1.6                                      Niger
Somalia                                    1.2                                      Somalie
Source:  FAO Country Fisheries Profiles - From Draft Report by L. Vidaeus (FAO Consultant),
"Marketing Strategy, Marketing Organization and Distribution Systems in Artisanal
Fisheries Development, Burundi", Rome, 1974.
Source:  Profils des pêches - FAO - Tiré dûi rapport officieux de L. Vidaets(Consultant de la FAO)
intitulé "Marketing Strategy, Marketing Organization and Distribution Systems in Artisanal
Fisheries Development, Burundi", Rome, 1974.
Decembar 17, 1975
le 17 dgcembre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE  2
Table/Tableau 3
BURUNDI
FISHEIIES DEVEIDPEMENT PROJECT
Projet de D6veloppement de la Pêche
Dry Fish Comsumption in Burundi by Province - 1971
La Consommation de poisson seché au  Burundi par province - 1971
Province          Inhabitants         Consumption             Remarks
'000               (tons)
Habitants         Consommution           Remarques
milliers             (tonnes)
Bujumbura            320.0              1,063.4        + fresh fish (Lake Tanganyika)
+ poisson frais (Lac
Tanganyika)
Bubanza              200.0                261.5        + fresh fish (Lake Tanganyika)
+ poisson frais (Lac
Tanganyika)
Ngozi                 690.0               155.7
Gitega               570.0                136.4
Muramvya             330.0                 52.3
Muyinga              490.0                  -          + fresh fish (interior lakes)
+ poisson frais (lacs de
1'interieur)
Ruyigi               320.0
Bururi               380.0                  -          + fresh fish (Lake Tanganyika)
+ poisson frais (Lac
Tanganyika)
Source: Report of FAO Fish Processing Specialist; June, 1972.
Source: Rapport du specialiste FAO sur la transformation du poisson; Juin 1972.
December 17, 1975
le 17 décembre 1975



BUtRtrNDI
FISIRIEES DEVELO0P-1ENT PROJEOT
Project de Developpemenut de la Peche
Sales of TraditionallY Dried Ndagala
Ventes da ndagala se,bé selon les atIode traditionnelles
Sales in Burundi
Province                                        Inhabitants/Rabitants                 1967        1968        1969       1970        1971        1972          Province
1971 QNumber/Nombre)                  ----------              Tons/Tonnes  ---------------------
Bujumbura/Bubarza                                          580,000                    1,402        277         305        1,325        304        533          Bujumburaslubanta
Ngozi                                                      670,000                      142        147         128          156         35          40         Ngozi
Citega                                                     570,000                      149        197         226          136         47         126         Gitega
Murarivye                                                  330,000                        58        65          52           52         18        220          Muramvya
?1uyinga                                                   490,000                       -          -            S          -           -           -          Muyinga
Ruyigi                                                     320,000                         1.0       2           3          -           _           _          Ruyigi
Bururi                                                     330,000                      -                                                                      Bururi
Total  sales                                                              152          689         719 .9                1405          02           Ventes tot; les
Exports                                                                                                                                                        Exportations
Zaire                                                                                    37         24          10            8          6          -          Zaire
Rwanda                                                                                     8        15          37           32          7          -          Rwanda
Imports                                                                                                                                                        i!spc,rt Eien s
2aire                                                                                   107        150          40            5         -           -          Zaire
Tanzania                                                                                126         73         286          263         _           _          Tanzanie
Source: Goverranent Annual Reports.
Source:  Rapports annuels du gouvernement.
Dcombt 17, 1975
le 17 dgee,bre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE  2
'rablefTnbleav 9
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Projet de Développemeut de la Poeche
Wholesale Ndagala Sales by Induatrial Fisheries in Bujumbura
Central Market by Lunar Period - 1973 - Aueust. 1975
Ventes en gros de ndagala pris par les entreprises de pêche industrielle
au marché central du Bujumbura par lunaison - 1973 -   aoet, 1975
Period/                       Quantity/                    Average Price/
Période                       Quantité                       Prix Moyen
(M. to.s/tonnes)                    FBu/kg.
1973
1/1 - 31/1                     232.8                            14.5
1/2 - 28/2                      33.9                            17.4
1/3 - 31/3                     125.0                            22.1
1/4 - 16/4                      38.5                            12.1
17/4 - 17/5                     81.6                            27.4
18/5 - 15/6                    163.0                            20.5
16/6 - 15/7                    230.6                            15.4
16/7 - 14/8                    331.9                            17.3
15/8 - 12/9                    241.5                            19.4
13/9 - 12/10                    47.3                            11.2
13/10 - 10/11                  700.0                             7.7
11/11 - 10/12                  783.4                             9.2
11/12 - 8/1                    803.3                             8.2
Total                        4,655.3                            12.1
1974
9/1 - 7/2                      679.8                             8.2
8/2 - 8/3                      575.5                             8.2
9/3 - 6/4                      383.8                            10.0
7/4 - 6/5                      155.2                            14.5
7/5 - 4/6                      128.4                            22.5
5/6 - 4/7                      168.6                            25.8
5/7 - 3/8                      176.0                            21.0
4/8 - 1/9                      368.1                            19.5
2/9 - 1/10                     323.0                            21.4
2/10 - 31/10                   696.6                            16.7
1/11 - 29/11                   819.5                            13.1
30/11 - 29/12                  605.8                            12.6
Total 1974                   5,080.3                            13.3
1975
30/12 - 27/1                   460.7                            13.7
28/1 - 26/2                    298.3                            18.6
27/2 - 27/3                    351.3                            16.5
28/3 - 25/4                    249.5                            11.8
26/4 - 25/5                    165.0                            19.1
26/5 - 23/6                    220.2                            23.6
24/6 - 23/7                    265.3                            27.5
24/7 - 21/8                    308.4                            18.8
2,318.7                           18.1
Source:  Vidaeus Report and FAO Research Project - Bujumbura.
Source:  Rapport Vidaeus et projet de recherche FAO - Bujumbura.
December 8, 1975
le 8 décembre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 2
Tahle/Tableau 6
BURU_DI
FISUERIES DEMVLOP!ET PROJECT
Projet de Développenent de la Peche
Beach Sales of Ndagala by Tradit:Lonal and Artisanal Fisheries
by Lunar Period 1974 - Aug. 1975
Period/            Quantity/                Average Price/           Variation/
Période            Quantité                    Prix Mcyen
1974
1/12 - 8/1             46.0                       6.5                 4.4 - 17.7
9/1-7/12               51.0                       9.9                 4.3 - 19/5
8/2 - 8/3             101.2                       6.3                  3.8 - 15.5
9,3 - 6/4             100.5                       9.2                  3.7 - 16.3
7/4 - 6/5              66.5                      11.1                 6.1 - 14.6
7/5 - 4/6              56.8                      14.5                  7.8 - 19.0
5/6 - 4/7              23.1                      18.0                 11.4 - 23.7
5/7 - 3/8             195.9                      12.7                 4.9 - 19.0
4/8 - 1/9              86.9                      23.1                 14.9 - 29.6
2/9 - 1/10             51.8                      14.6                13.8 - 26.1
2/10 - 31/10           53.5                      13.4                  7.8 - 21.3
1/11 - 30/11          113.6                      11.9                 8.5 - 21.6
30/11 - 29/12          83.7                      10.2                 6.5 - 13.4
Total 1974          1,030.5                      12.2                  3.7 - 29.6
1975
30/12 - 27/1          112.0                      10.7                  5.9 - 21.4
28/1 - 26/2            38.8                      13.7                 12.5 - 21.8
27/2 - 27/3            99.3                      18.4                  9.7 - 19.1
28/3 - 25/4           242.9                       6.9                  3.4 - 13.3
26/4 - 25/5           107.2                      17.1                 10.9 - 26.6
26/5 - 23/6            38.2                      21.0                 18.5 - 26.5
24/6 - 23/7            37.1                      21.8                 16.8 - 33.9
24/7 - 21/8           260.9                      10.9                  6.0 - 20.7
Source: FAO Research Project - Bujurdmura.
Source: Projet de reserche FAO - Bujumbura.
1/  These figures represent a sample and do not reflect the total traditional
and artisanal fisheries production.
1/
December 9t 1975
le 9 décezbre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 2
Table/Tableau 7
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projet de Développement de la Pêche
Average Lunar Period and Daily Primary Wholesale Quantities of All Fresh
Fish from Industrial Fisheries Sold at Bujumbura Central Market in 1973-74
Ventes moyennes en gros de poisson frais pris par les entreprises de pêche
industrielle par lunaison,marché central de Buiumbura 1973-74
Turnover by Lunar Period/                  Dally Turnover/
Transactions Par période lunaire           Transactions par jour
Average/                     Range/        Average/         Range/
Moyenne                   Fourchette       Moyenne       Fourchette
m. tons/tonnes                           m. tons/tonnes
1973                                                                                               1973
All fish            458.3                    159.6-816.9         15.1         5.3-28.2        Tous poissons
Ndagala             358.1                     81.6-803.3         12.5         1.7-27.8        Ndagala
1974                                                                                               1974
Ndagala             329.3                    128.4-679.8         11.3         4.6-23.1        Ndagala
Source: Vidaeus Report.
Source: Rapport de Vidaeus.
December 17, 1975
le 17 décember 1975



ANNEX 3
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVULOPMENT PROJECT
FAO/UNDP Fisheries Development Project for Lake Tanganyika
(BDI-73-007)
Objectives of Project
1.        While the objectives of the first FAO/UNDP fisheries project
(1971-73) were primarily pilot efforts and pure research, the development
project for 1974-76 aims directly at rehabilitating artisanal fishing and
assisting in its development. The Government's implementing agency is the
Department of Waters and Forests of the Ministry of Agriculture and Live-
stock.
2.        The project documents define the project's objectives as follows:
Long-Term: to assist the Government of Burundi in the
development and organization of fishing on Lake Tanganyika,
through direct assistance designed to expand artisanal fish-
ing, to improve fishing techniques and fish processing, and
to develop the distribution of fish products throughout the
country.
Short-Ternm:
(a) Rehabilitation and improvement of artisanal fishing
by creating fishing centers which would:
-    provide catamaran fishing boats to selected
fishermen on a contractual basis.
-    sell fishing materials directly or on a credit
basis.
-    train fishermen in the use and maintenance of
fishing equipment (including outboard motors),
accounting, etc.
-    buy fish at fair prices and process it in small
factories.
-    organize marketing of fish products.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
This would be undertaken by a parastatal Regional
Development Society which would be supervised and
assisted by the Project.
(b) Train local personnel of the Regional Development
Society and the Fisheries Service.
Work Plan
3.        The first phase of the Project (pre-project activities which began
in mid-1973) overlapped with the preceding project and involved primarily
direct rehabilitation of boats and centers, preparation of equipment lists
and ordering necessary equipment from abroad, and studies of marketing.
4.        The second phase involved the construction of fishing centers at
Kitaza, Magara and Rumonge, and is scheduled for completion by December, 1976.
5.        A third component of the Project involved training for:  (a) fish-
ermen, (b) personnel of the Regional Development Society, and (c) counterpart
personnel.
UNDP Contribution (about US$750,000)
6.        UNDP Experts:
(a) Project Director - master fishermen, to coordinate all
aspects of the Project; responsible for all administrative
aspects of the Project - 3 years.
(b) Administrative Assistant - to assist the Project Director
in all aspects of administration (to be shared with the
Fisheries Research Project) - 3 years.
(c)  Fish Processing Specialist - to introduce new processing
techniques and oversee the fish processing centers - 3
years.
(d) Consultants - (i) construction of boats - 12 months; (ii)
naval architect - to advise on construction methods and
materials - 2 months; and other consultants - 2 months.
(e) Volunteers - 3 volunteers for fishing development and one
to train mechanics.
7.        Training:  The two principal training aspects of the Project are:
(a) To develop an adequate fisheries service - primarily
through in-service training, with some short courses



ANNEX 3
Page 3
abroad. In addition, a course for personnel of the
Fisheries Service would be organized in Bujumbura.
(b)  Training of 1,000-1,200 lishermen over three years at
the fishing centers.
8.        Equipment and Materials Financed by UNDP:
(a)  Materials:  fishing materials, processing equipment -
US$275,830.
(b)  Equipment:  vehicles, "Boston whaler", outboard
motors, factory equipment: (generator, welding
machine) - US$60,829.
(c) Miscellaneous - US$32,341.
9.        All equipment would become part of the capital of the Regional
Development Society, with the exception of materials provided to fishermen
on a hire-purchase basis. The BNDE would assist the Society in financial
administration.
Government Contribution
10.       The Government's contribution, estimated at FB 12,804,000
(US$165,000) comprised primarily counterpart personnel, buildings, and
miscellaneous supplies.
Progress to Date
11.       In general, progress to date has been satisfactory.  Over 300 hulls
for catamarans and trimarans have been manufactured and about 60 boats have
been allocated. The remaining hulls should be joined as boats and allocated
to fishermen shortly. The fishing center at Kitaza has been operating for
almost two years. The processing plant has experienced some difficulties,
and, as tables 1 and 2 indicate, it has not operated at full capacity, nor
on all days when fish was available. There have also been difficulties in
management, and a substantial quantity of processed fish had to be destroyed
because of poor supervision. However, many of these difficulties can be
explained by normal conditions encountered as a project is starting up, and
they appear to be in the course of being resolved.  After some initial
problems, marketing of processed fish is going well. A marketing specialist
spent two months in Burundi in late 1974, and his report was submitted to the
Government recently. One training course has been held, and arrangements are
being made for training abroad for counterpart personnel. The fishing center
at Magara has begun operations, and the center at Rumonge should begin to
operate by during 1976. Apart from operational problems involving the Kitaza



ANNEX 3
Page 4
plant, the principal problems which the Project has encouatered have related
to long delays in arrival in Burundi of equipment and supplies ordered from
abroad. Construction of new fishing centers was delayed by shortages of
cement. Despite these problems, however, the Project has demonstrated clearly
that the fishing techniques being developed work well, that the processing
techniques employed are well adapted to local conditions, and that the product
(dried, smoked ndagala) meets an important need in Burundi and appears to
be acceptable to the local population. The Project has proved that invest-
ment in fisheries development along the lines of the Project can be produc-
tive and that the potential for further development of artisanal fisheries
is good.
12.       Tables 1 and 2 show operating results of the Kitaza plant and sales
to date.
November 15, 1975



ANNFX/ANNEXE 3
Table/Tableau 1
BUdUNDI
FISHERIES DEViUOPMENT PROJECT
Projet de Développement de la Pêche
Fish Purchased by Kitaza Fishing Center July 1973-October 1974 1/
Achâts du poisson au centre de pêche à Kitaza juillet 1973-octobre 1974 1/
Number of days when    Quantity wet fish   Average daily quantity
fish was purchased       purchased (kg)           purchased (kg)
Nombre de jours          Quantité de          Quantite moyenne
d'achât de poisson       poisson achetée        journalier achetée
(kg)                  (kg)
1973                                                                                                         1973
July                                  8                    1,813                     227                juillet
August                               12                    3,052                     254                aout
September                             9                    7,117                     791                septembre
October                              10                    9,259                     926                octobre
November                             13                   15,800                   1,215                novembre
December                              8                   10,299                   1.287                decembre
Total - July/September 1973          60                   47.37                      78                 Total - juillet/
septembre 1973
1974                                                                                                          1974
January                              13                   14,664                   1,128                janvier
February                              9                   12,988                   1,443                fevrier
March                                 7                   10,266                   1,467                mars
April                                 0                        0                       0                avril
May                                   4                    2,555                     639                mai
June                                  6                    3,774                     629                juin
July                                  8                    3,986                     498                juillet
August                                8                    3,806                     476                août
September                            18                   13,413                     745                septembre
October                              15                  O22.25                    1.482                octobre
Total - January/October 1974         88                   87.677 .2                                     Total - janvier/
octobre 1974
Total - July 1973 - October, 1974 148                    135.047                     912                Total - juillet 1973-
octobre 1974
1/  It should be noted that operation of the plant was irregular during this period, and that it is operating
well below full capacity (3-4 tons of wet fish per day); this is partially explained by start-up difficulties
and management problems (para 11); in addition the plant did not operate during certain periods when fishing
was poor. Some fish caught by fishermen attached to the center was sold by fishermen at beach markets.
1/  L'usine n'a pas fonctionné réguliérement pendant cette période et a eté loin d'atteindre sa pleine capacité
(3 à 4 tonnes de poisson par jour), ce qui s'explique en partie par des problèmes de mise en route et de gestion(par.11)
en outre, l'usine n'a pas fonctionné a certaines époques où la pêche était mauvaise. Les pêcheurs associés au
centre out vendu une partie de leur poisson sur les plages de débarquement.
Source: "Marketing Strategy, Marketing Organization and Distribution Systems in Artisanal Fisheries Development,
Burundi"; Report of Lars Vidaeus, FAO Marketing Consultant, 1974.
Source: Rapport de Lars Vidaeus, consultant en commercialisation de la FAO, 1974.
December 17, 1975
le 17 décembre 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 3
Table/Tableau 2
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projet de Développement de la Pgche
Sales of Smoked Ndagala from Kitaza Plant July 1973-September 1974 1/
Ventes de ndagala fumé de l'usine de Kitaza juillet 1973-septembre 1974 1/
Numberof
200-gr bags
Nombre de
sachets de
200 gr
1973                                                            1973
July                  1,528                   306          juillet
August                5,112                1,022           août
September             6,970                1,394           septembre
October               8,409                1,682           octobre
November             12,140                2,428           novembre
December             13,285                2,657           décembre
Total July-
December 1973        47,444                9,488           Total juillet-
- decembre 1973
1974                                                             1974
January              13,487                2,697           janvier
February              6,847                1,369           février
March                11,693                2,339           mars
April                11,680                2,336           avril
May                  17,225                3,445           mai
June                  5,067                1,013           juin
July                  4,100                  820           juillet
August                4,823                  964           août
September            11,265                2,253           septembre
Total January-                                             Total janvier-
September 1974       86,187               17,237           septembre 1974
Total July 1973-                                           Total juillet 1973-
September 1974      133,631               26,725           septembre 1974
1/  See Table 1.  Note that sales do not correspond with quantity of fish purchased,
because of lags in sale and spoilage, particularly during 1973 operations.
/  Voir Tableau 1.  Les ventes ne correspondent pas aux achats par suite de décalages
et de pertes,  notamment  en 1973.
Source: Report of Lars Vidaeus, FAO Marketing Consultant, 1974.
Source: Rapport de Lars Vidaeus, consultant de la FAO pour la commercialisation, 1974.
December 17, 1975
Le 17 decembre 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1
BUR'UNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutions Responsible for Fisheries Development
Ministry of Agriculture
1.        The basic organization of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
is described in para. 2.18. Two principal departments (directions generale),
each under a Director General, are responsible respectively for Agriculture
(crops) and Livestock; they report directly to the Minister. The principal
divisions within the Agriculture Department are: agricultural planning,
information and extension, agronomy, rural works, waters and forests (includ-
ing fisheries), hydro-meteorology, £nd land tenure. The Livestock Department
comprises an animal health and production division and a veterinary diagnostic
laboratory.  Three "offices" concerned with export crops, which come under the
broad jurisdiction (tutelle) of the Ministry, are relatively autonomous govern-
mental organizations. They are the Office des Cultures Industrielles du
Burundi (OCIBU) (Agency for Industrial Crops of Burundi), with primary responsi-
bility for coffee development, the Office du The de Burundi (OTB) (Agency for
Tea of Burundi) and the Caisse de Gerance Cotonnier (COGERCO) (the Agency for
Cotton Development), an organization with responsibilities primarily for cotton
marketing in both Burundi and Rwanda. The Ministry also operates an agricul-
tural research institute, the Institut des Sciences Agronomiques du Burundi
(ISABU).  ISABU operates four experimental stations and supervises and coordinates
several pilot projects for tea production. Supervision of agricultural training
institutions is the direct responsibility of the Director General of Agricul-
ture.
2.        The Department of Livestock was established in January, 1974; the
establishment of a separate department at a high level within the Ministry
reflects the Importance which the Government accords to livestock development.
3.        The total staff of the Minîstry of Agriculture numbers about
2,400, which excludes the staff of the parastatal organizations. The field
extension staff is about 800 agents, giving a ratio of extension workers to
farmers of about 1:1,000. The operal:ing budget of the Ministry is about
US$1.5 million or less than 5% of the total Government budget; a number of
agricultural services and projects are financed by extra-budgetary sources,
notably foreign assistance and special taxes.
4.        Regional Agricultural Service.  Regional agricultural offices and
field extension services suffer particularly from insufficient staff, limita-
tions of funds, and inadequate extension programs. In theory, there is an



ANNEX 4
Page 2
agronomist and veterinary officer in each province and arrondissement (dis-
trict), and field staff for both agriculture and livestock are posted at the
communal often and sometimes below. Ilowever, agricultural posts below district
level are after vacant, while few officers serving in the field have even
basic transport, basic extension programs and technical support for field
staff are limited. The tendency is therefore for staff to devote much of
their time to administrative matters rather than to field work with farmers.
5.        An FAO/UNDP agricultural training project aims at organizing in-
service training courses of one week for all field staff of the Ministry of
Agriculture to be offered within the next two years. The training course
would focus on key issues such as anti-erosion measures and animal feeding.
6.        The Fisheries Service.  The Fisheries Service is part of the Depart-
ment of Water and Forests. Virtually all professional staff (less than
10) work as counterpart personnel in one of the two FAO/UNDP fisheries
projects. All staff are posted in Bujumbura with the exception of those
working at the Kitaza and Magara fishing centers on Lake Tanganyika.
There is no effective extension effort at present outside the Lake Tanganyika
area. The principal responsibilities of the fisheries service in future are
likely to be general policy direction for the sub-sector, enforcement of basic
law and regulations applicable to fisheries, coordination and direction of
research, and collection of data on fisheries development.
Agricultural Training Institutions
7.        The principal institutions involved in training technical staff
in agriculture in Burundi are the following:
(a) Institute Technique Agricole du Burundi (ITAB) (Agri-
cultural Institute of Burundi), located in Gitega.
Students are selected by competitive examination
after the third year of the secondary school cycle;
the basic course comprises two years of further
secondary education and four years of training in
agriculture. The Institute's graduates serve as
agronomists or as veterinary or animal production
officers (techniciens agronomes and techniciens en
production et sante animal). The Institute receives
assistance under an FAO/UNDP project and from the
European Development Fund (FED). There were 15
graduates in 1972/73 and 10 for each of the three
following years. An expansion to 30 graduates a
year is planned.
(b) Ecole Professionelle Officielle Agricole de Karuzi
(EPOA) (Agricultural Training School) - this school
recruits students after one year in secondary school;



ANNEX 4
Page 3
the three year course is designed to train field
extension supervisors (vulgarisateurs). The school is
supported entirely by the Government of Burundi.
The number of graduates is about 20 a year.
(c) Ecole de Vulgarisateurs de Rutegama (School for
Agricultural Extension Workers) - this school offers
a nine-month accelerated course for field extension
staff. Students are recruited after three years of
secondary education. Belgian technical assistance
supports the school. The number of graduates is
about 25 a year.
Regional Development Societies
8.        Since 1971, four 'regional development societies" have been estab-
lished. The basic legislation covering these societies, which are parastatal
organizations, is included as Appendix 2 of Annex 5. One society is responsi-
ble for general development in the Imbo region, two for tea development through-
out Burundi, and one for fisheries development, primarily on Lake Tanganyika.
All come under the general direction of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock and are designed to function as autonomous agencies empowered to
undertake commercial, industrial and financial activities. Salaries paid
by regional societies cannot be lower than civil service salaries, but may
be higher. Each society has a Board of Directors which names the General
Manager (Gerant) of the society. The General Manager has authority for
day-to-day management, hiring and firing personnel, purchase and sale of
goods, financial management, short--term borrowing, etc.
Coordination Committee for the Imbo ]Region
7.        A special advisory commit:tee was established in March, 1971 in
order to coordinate all development: activities in the "Imbo region", by
which is meant the entire area in western Burundi that lies below 2,000
meters. This includes the Ruzizi lValley and the lake shore of Lake
Tanganyika extending south to the border with Tanzania. The official respon-
sible for development planning is chairman of the committee, whose membership
is broad, including all interested ministries and agencies and directors of
principal project authorities active in the region. The committee has met
irregularly since its creation, and has not played an active role to date.
However, it offers a framework for coordinating development activities
undertaken by various ministries arid agencies in the area concerned. It
has discussed the FAO/UNDP fisheries project on more than one occasion.
November 12, 1975



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPM`ENT PROJECT
The Soci&té Regionale de Developpement "Usines
de Poisson du Burundi"
Background
1.        The Socièté Regionale de Développement, "Usines de Poisson du
Burundi" (RDS) would be responsible for the implemnentation of all fisheries
development components of the Project and for the continuing operation of the
fishing centers and stations. It was constituted in October 1973, by a
Ministerial Ordinance (attached as appendix 1), with the following objectives:
(a)  to buy fish from fishermen;
(b) to build and manage processing plants;
(c)  to trade, process and market fish in all forms;
(d)  to sell, both in Burundi and abroad, the finished product;
(e)  to build fishing units;
(f)  to import, and sell or rent fishing equipment to all fishermen; and
(g)  to provide credit for fishing materials.
Since most fishing boats of the artisanal and traditional fisheries were
destroyed in 1972 (see para 2.23), the Government has indicated that it intends
to use the RDS as the principal vehicle for rehabilitating small-scale fish-
eries. The RDS was established in conjunction with the FAO/UNDP artisanal
fisheries development project (Annex 3), which is designed to commence work
on the rehabilitation program.
The Law
2.   The Government decree-law of 1971 (attached as Appendix 2) established
the general framework for regional development societies in Burundi. The Act
was designed to provide a legal basis for parastatal entities in the agricul-
ture sector, with the objective that they operate on a commercial basis.
Such entities are exempted from income taxes, but can pay dividends and/or
give bonuses to their staff. Three other entities already operate under this
law.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
The RDS
3.        The Fisheries Regional Developing Society (RDS), has a seven-member
Board of Directors, of which six are ex-officio Government officials and one
is a traditional fishermen appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Live-
stock. The Director of Foreign Trade is currently serving as chairman of the
Board.
4.        The General Manager is appointed by the Board.  A draft document
detailing the powers delegated to the General Manager by the Board was
given to the appraisal mission. The draft provides the General Manager
with the necessary powers to run the RDS effectively. During negotiations,
a document setting out the powers of the General Manager, as approved by
the Board, should be given to the Association.
Organization and Management
5.        Although the RDS act was promulgated in 1973 (para 1), the entity
as such is not yet functioning, and all posts in the organization were vacant
in late 1975. The FAO/UNDP project has managed most development activities
in the sector including the RDS's installations at Kitaza and Magara. The
Government attributed the delay in staffing the organization to the limited
scope of RDS activities and to fiinancial constraints.  The Government is fully
aware of the need to establish and staff the RDS in view of the forthcoming
termination of the FAO/UNDP project, and the commencement of implementation
of the proposed IDA project.
6.        The appointment of a General Manager would be a condition of Board
presentation for the Credit and the General Manager/designate should partici-
pate in credit negotiations. FAO and BNDE staff in Bujumbura are expected
to cooperate during 1976 with the Government in reviewing the staffing require-
ments of the RDS and in the finalizing an accounting plan. All key positions
should be filled before the end of 1976.
7.        A tentative organization chart was prepared during the appraisal
mission and appears as Chart 1 of this report. Four main functions were
identified:  i.e. fisheries development (provision of fishing materials,
fisheries extension and training and applied research trials), processing,
marketing, and administration and finance. The Governnient of Burundi and
BNDE are in agreement with the proposed structure. Job descriptions were
proposed for the key posts as well as desirable qualifications and background
for candidates (Annex 8). GOB agrees fully that competent staff must be
appointed to run the RDS. It is improbable that sufficient qualified persons
could be recruited locally; therefore it is expected that internationally
recruited specialists, with fully competent counterparts, would fill key posts
during most of the investment period.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
8.        The RDS, at least in its initial years, would be too small to
warrant a full time, qualified financial controller. A competent accountant
would be employed by the RDS, and the BNDE would assist the RDS in:
(a) drawing up an accounting plan;
(b)  reviewing periodically its financial performance:
(c)  preparing the budget and financial forecasts; and
(d)  supervising the credit operations for fishermen.
Provisions to this effect should be included in the subsidiary loan agreement
between BNDE and RDS. BNDE has successfully fulfilled such assignments for
parastatal and private firms in Burundi (see Annex 6).
Finance
9.        The BNDE is now drawing up an accounting plan for the RDS (para 8),
in consultation with FAO/UNDP project staff. They will also ensure that
strict financial control Drocedures, a cost accounting system, and budgetary
procedures are established and maintained. The accounting plan should be
submitted to the Association before negotiations.
10.       Financial projections were prepared on the basis of:
(a) Project investment projections and models (Annex 9);
(b) tentative six months accounts for the period April-
September 1975;
(c) a tentative balance sheet as of December 31, 1975; and
(d) additional data and costs obtained during appraisal.
The forecast is provided as Tables 1 - 4 of this Annex. The supporting
assumptions appear as Appendix 3. The forecast should be considered as
tentative, since data on past performance is limited. Further, the two
existing centers, at Kitaza and Magara have not been operated on a commercial
basis, so that their performance so far does not provide a reliable indication
as to future prospects of the RDS.
11.       The RDS's financial performance will be critically sensitive to the
price at which it buys or sells fish, and notably to the margin between the
purchase and selling price. While the GOB has indicated that it seeks to
stabilize the price of fish, in view of the competition from both industrial
and traditional units, there is little flexibility in fixing purchase or
selling prices in the coastal areas. There will be more flexibility as to



ANNEX 5
Page 4
pricing for the export market (para 4.06) and in the interior, although
transport costs will certainly be an important factor. The prices assumed in
the forecast represent an estimate!d average for the past year (1974-5).
12.       The financial forecast prepared for the RDS indicates that the
first two years excepted, the RDS would run at a profit. The early year
losses are due to relatively high overhead costs, while the project is
implemented. Beyond 1978, the company should be highly profitable (ROI of
15%, operating profit at 11% of sales, debt coverage ratio of 1.5).
13.       The statement of sources and application of funds of the RDS (Table
3) can be summarized as follows:
1976 - 1981
(FBu million)
Sources
Operating Income                     84.6
Depreciation                         24.5
Sub-Total                      109.1
Less: Increase in working
capital                         27.6
Total Internal Sources               81.5
Borrowings - short-term             105.1
- long-term             109.3
Total Borrowings               214.4
Fishermen Down-payments and
loan redempttons                   60.2
Sale of Materials and Parts
(at cost)                       51.9
Total Sources                  408.0



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Applications:
Plant
Procurement of equipped units
and spare parts for resale   136.4
Processing centers/stations,
buildings, and purse
seine units                     53.1
Sub-Total                     189.5
Debt Repayments - Short Term        105.1
- Long Term         37.7
- Interest          33.4
Increase in Cash                     42.3
Total Applications             408.0
14.       The forecast indicates that the RDS should be profitable after 1980.
No assumptions have been made on the allocations of these profits (i.e. dlvi-
dends to the Government, bonus to the staff, unidentified expansions, diversi-
fication etc...) in view of the tentative nature of the forecast, and the
resulting uncertainty over later years.
RDS Headguarters
15.       RDS and the FAO/UNDP fisheries development project currently share
office space with the FAO/UNDP fisheries research project, located on the
shore of Lake Tanganyika, on the outskirts of Bujumbura. The Government will
decide prior to credit negotiations whether these facilities will in future
be allocated to the RDS or to fisheries research activities. The facilities
were constructed with FAO/UNDP and Government funds, primarily to serve research
needs, but the site and space would be ideally suited for the RDS. Project
costs include provision for office space required by RDS, which would be used
elther to build new facilities or to compensate the research project for taking
over facilities belonging to them.
Model Contracts with Fishermen
16.       The RDS would enter into a contract with each fisherman who received
a loan for a fishing unit and material. RDS would establish a model contract,
in consultation with the BNDE, and would submit the model to IDA for approval.
This contract should cover, inter alia:



ANNEX 5
Page 6
(a) Terms and conditions for interest and loan repayment.
(b) Provisions for down payments.
(c) Agreements on sale of the catch.
(d)  Agreements on the basis for pricing the fish catch sold to RDS.
(e) Conditions of attachment to the center or station
(condition of unit, maintenance, days of fishing, role
of the captain, conditions of employment of crew).
March 10, 1976



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REGULATION ESTABLISHING THE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
SOCIETY FOR FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT
Ministerial Ordinance No. 710/127 of October 2, 1973
Concerning the Formation and Statutes of a Regional
Development Corporation (Society) to be known as "Usines De Poissons
Du Burundi" (Fish Processing Plants of Burundi) 1/
TAKING INTO CONSIDERATION:
-    Decree-law No. 1/6 of December 19, 1966, which concerns legisla-
tive and regulatory powers;
-    and Decree-law No. 1/80.of July 30, 1971, which concerns regional
development corporations,
THE MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE HEREBY ORDERS:
CHAPTER I
Formation, Style, Purpose, Registered Offices, Duration
ARTICLE 1:   A regional development corporation is hereby established to be
known as "USINES DE POISSONS DU BURUNDI". It shall be regulated by the
organic decree-law applying to regional development corporations and by
these statutes. It shall be designated hereinafter as "the Corporation".
ARTICLE 2:   The purpose of the Corporation shall be to promote fishing in
the lakes, rivers and ponds of Burundi. To this end, the Corporation shall:
1.  buy fish from fishermen;
1/   Although Corporation is perhaps a more precise translation of the French
"societe", Society is used in this report to designate the regional
parastata organizations, except in the translation of legal documents
where "corporation" is employed.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 2
2.   build and administer one or more processing and
packing plants;
3.   treat, process and market fish, whether fresh,
quick-frozen, dried, salted, smoked, preserved
in oil or other products, or in the form of fish
meal, and to extract all by-products such as soap,
glue, etc.
4.   sell its processed products on both domestic and
foreign markets and, particularly, set up sales
outlets within Burundi;
5.   build fishing craft;
6.   import, sell, or lease all classes of fishing gear
ta individuals engaged in artisan or traditional
fishing;
7.   finance sales of all classes of fishing gear.
In addition, the Corporation may enter into any operation connected
with fixed and movable property, financing or transportation and consistent
with its corporate purpose.
ARTICLE 3:   The registered offices of the Corporation shall be located at
Chaussee d'Uvira, Bujumbura. Its sphere of activities shall include the
whole territory of the Republic of Burundi.
ARTICLE 4:   The duration of the Corporation shall be for thirty years from
the date of this ordinance. It may enter into commitments extending beyond
that period.
CHAPTER II
Capital
ARTICLE 5:   Corporation capital shall be limited to FBu 20 million subscribed
entirely by the Republic of Burundi from funds granted it under the United
Nations Development Programme (Project for the Development of artisanal
Fishing). Capital shall be paid in step with execution of the fishing devel-
opment program.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 3
ARTICLE 6:   The Governnent of Burundi shall assign to the Corporation with-
out consideration the land required for its establishment. Such land shall
be registered in the name of the Corporation.
ARTICLE 7:   The Corporation shall not be called upon to repay the initial
contribution it received from FRAB.
ARTICLE 8:   When authorized by ministerial ordinance, the Corporation's
capital may be increased by new contributions or capitalization of profits.
CHAPTER III
Administration and Management
ARTICLE 9:   The Corporation shall be administered by a Board of Directors
made up as follows:
-    the director of the Waters and Forests Department;
-    a delegate of the National Economic Development Bank
of Burundi;
-    the director of the Agricultural Planning Department;
-    a delegate of the Ministry of Finance;
-    the director of the External Trade Department;
-    a representative of the group of artisanal fishermen,
to be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture;
-    the representative of the Government.
The powers of the Board of Directors shall be those defined in Article
13 (2), of the organic decree-law regulating regional development corpora-
tions. The Board shall propose the name of its chairman for approval by the
Minister of Agriculture. The term of office of the chairman shall be three
years.
ARTICLE 10:  The Minister of Agriculture, acting on proposals from the Board
of Directors, shall lay down the rules of procedure of the Board in such
matters as convening of meetings, quorum, votes, minutes, and resolutions.
ARTICLE 11:  The Board of Directors shall meet at least four times a year.
Meetings shal1 be convened by the chairman, who shall draw up the agenda.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 4
The Board may also be convened by the Minister of Agriculture, the
Government representative, or any three of its members. In such cases,
the individual or individuals convening the meeting shall draw up the
agenda.
ARTICLE 12: The Director General of the Ministry of Agriculture shall act
as Government representative. His powers shall be those defined in Article
14 of the organic decree-law regulating regional development corporations.
ARTICLE 13: The general manager of the Corporation shall be appointed by
the Board of Directors, and may be a natural or artificial person. In the
case of an artificial person, the iappointment of a proxy with power of
attorney shall require the endorsement of the Board.
The general manager shall be engaged under contract, the terms of
which shall stipulate his rights and duties. His powers shall be deter-
mined by the Board of Directors. The document granting him power of
attorney shall be published in the Official Government Bulletin.
ARTICLE 14: Other personnel shall be engaged on contract under the respon-
sibility of the general manager, acting in accordance with conditions laid
down by the Board of Directors, which shall determine basic staff structures,
recruitment levels and salary scales.
CHAP_ER IV
Acccunts
ARTICLE 15: The Corporation's fiscal year shall coincide with the calendar
year.
ARTICLE 16: The Corporation's accounts shall be the responsibility of the
general manager, and these shall be maintained in accordance with regula-
tions laid down in the organic decree-law applying to regional development
corporations and in the national accounts plan and in conformity with
instructions issued by the Board of Directors.
The general manager shall draw up the draft balance sheet and profit
and loss account.
ARTICLE 17: The Corporation shall narket its products at a price at least
equal to minimum prices set by the M4inisters concerned acting on the recom-
mendation of the Board of Directors.  Purchase price of fish, and terms
affecting the lease or sale of fish:Lng gear, shall be established by the
Board.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 1
Page 5
ARTICLE 18: The Bank of the Republic of Burundi shall act as the auditor
of Corporation accounts.
CHAPTER V
Operating Results
ARTICLE 19: When operating results show a surplus, it shall be transferred
in its entirety to reserves. Reserves shall be capitalized periodically so
as to enable the Corporation to expand its activities in a manner consistent
with its corporate objectives.
When operating results show a loss, Article 23 of the organic decree-
law shall be applicable.
CHAPTER VI
Winding up and Final Provisions
ARTICLE 20: The Corporation shall be wound up on the date set for expiry
of its corporate duration, unless its prolongation is approved, or the
Minister of Agriculture orders winding up prior to that date. Two liquida-
tors shall be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. Net surplus on
liquidation shall be transferred to the Republic of Burundi.
ARTIVLE 21: This ordinance shall come into force on the date it is signed.
BUJUMBURA, October 1, 1973.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LAW ON REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIETIES (CORPORATIONS) 1/
Decree-Law No. 1/80 of July 30, 1971
Concerning Regional Development Corporations
In view of Decree-Law No. 1/6 of December 19, 1966 on the organization
of legislative and regulatory authorities,
Upon the proposal of the Minister of Agriculture, The President of the
Republic,
HEREBY DECREES:
Article 1
When the Republic of Burundi executes projects, in the form of a public
enterprise, for the reclamation, consolidation or development of public land,
drainage or irrigation, the introduction or improvement of crop-growing, the
introduction and improvement of animal husbandry, the installation of infra-
structure or the establishment of structures for the transformation or proc-
essing of agricultural products, the Minister of Agriculture may, by minis-
terial order, convert such public enterprise into a regional development
corporation.
Article 2
The regional development corporation, hereinafter referred to as "the
corporation" shall have a separate legal personality.
It shall have authority to carry out any commercial, industrial and
financial activities that relate to its object. It shall operate and be
administered in accordance with standard business practices.
The corporation's capital shall serve as security for any liabilities
it may contract with third parties, including the State.
1/  See note, Appendix 1, Page 1.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
Article 3
The Minister of Agriculture shall draft statutes for any corporation
he may form:
Such statutes shall include at least the following provisions:
(a) The name of the corporation;
(b) A definition of the scope of its operations;
(c)  The address of the corporation's registered office;
(d)  The duration of the corporation, which may not exceed thirty years.
Its term may be extended upon expiry by ministerial order;
(e) The purpose of the corporation;
(f) If applicable, the corporation's obligations in respect of repaying
the investment cost;
(g)  The amount and composition of its capital, together with the terms
for paying it in;
(h) The composition and powers of the corporation's administrative and
management bodies;
(i) Appropriation of trading results;
(j) Appropriation of the corporation's net assets in the event of its
liquidation;
(k) Designation of technical and auditing bodies to control and super-
vise the corporation's operations.
Article 4
The purpose of the corporation shall be restricted to the execution
and management of an enterprise corresponding to one of the definitions
listed in Article 1 above, including the creation of the enterprise, the
management and upkeep of the land and crops, livestock, forestland, infra-
structure, plant and machinery that exist within the framework of this
enterprise and the sale of the products deriving therefrom. The purpose
of the corporation may include the processing and packing of products for
the account of third parties established in the region, together with the
purchase and sale of such products.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
Article 5
The corporation's capital shall be derived principally from the transfer
by the Republic of Burundi of state-owned land, together with infrastructure
and facilities installed on it.
The amount of the capital shall be expressed in Burundi francs.
In evaluating the contribution of the Republic of Burundi, public lands
shall only be taken into account in the event of the participation in the
corporation of private and public enterprises, as provided for in Article 6
below. The infrastructure and facilities shall be assessed at cost price.
Article 6
The statutes may make provision for the participation in the corpora-
tion's capital of a private or public enterprise qualified by virtue of its
technical experience in a particular field or its possession of technical
know-how of interest to the company, or of a national, foreign or interna-
tional development bank or company.
Article 7
The participations referred te in Article 6 above may not exceed forty
percent of the corporation's total capital.
They must be paid for in cash.
Article 8
The contribution of the Republic of Burundi shall be made available as
and when the infrastructure and facilities are installed.
Third party contributions shall be paid in accordance with the corpora-
tion's statutes, with at least twenty five percent being paid in on the date
of subscription and the total balance within five years of the initial sub-
scription.
Article 9
Participation in the corporation shall not be the object of any issue
of bonds or shares. It shall be indivisible.
Transfer of participations in t:he corporation, pursuant to Article 6
above, may be authorized by ministerial order in the form of an amendment
to the statutes, provided that the transferee is as well qualified as the
assign»or.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 4
Article 10
Participation holders, having subscribed in accordance with the provi-
sions of Article 6 above, are entitled to proportional representation on
the board of directors.
Article 11
Participation holders, having subscribed in accordance with the provi-
sions of Article 6 above, shall be obliged, under penalty of forfeiture, to
comply with their obligations in respect of paying up their participations.
If they fail to meet these obligations, the corporation may, without
further formality, take the necessary legal steps to collect the amounts
due and, if unsuccessful, shall declare the defaulting subscriber as having
forfeited his holding.
In such an event, the Minister may, by a ministerial order taking the
form of an amendment to the statutes, accept another subscriber in replace-
ment or reduce the corporation's capital.
The amounts already paid in shall remain in the possession of the
corporation, in the form of a non interest-bearing loan, repayable ten
years after forfeiture is declared.
Article 12
The Minister may, upon the recommendation of the board of directors,
issue a ministerial order increasing the corporation's capital, in respect
of either the Republic of Burundi's contribution or amounts subscribed in
accordance with Article 6 above, which shall not exceed the limits set in
Article 7 above.
If the capital increase relates to participations pursuant to Article 6
above, initial subscribers shall have first option to subscribe to the new
subscription, in proportion to the amount they already hold.
Article 13
The corporation shall be administered by a board of directors, its
composition being specified in the statutes and subject to compliance
with the provisions of Article 10 above.
The board of directors shall have the fullest authority to act on
behalf and for the account of the corporation, including authority to
dispose of property and authorize mortgages, and the capacity to appear
at law as plaintiff or defendant.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 5
Article 14
The Minister shall appoint a'n expert to represent the Government on the
board of directors, with the right to speak and vote and with the power of
veto in the following matters:
-    the purchase and sale cf real property;
-    the appointment of a manager;
-    the liquidation of the corporation.
Article 15
The board of directors shall appoint the manager of the corporation.
The manager may be an individual or a legal entity. If a legal entity
is selected, the appointment of that entity's representative shall be subject
to the approval of the board of directors.
The manager or the manager's representative shall reside in the corpora-
tion's area of operation.
His rights and obligations shall be established in a contract.
His powers shall be sufficiently broad to enable him to take charge of
the day-to-day management of the corporation's affairs, to hire and dismiss
personnel, to purchase and sell merchandise, to handle bank accounts, nego-
tiate short-term financing, arrange for maintenance and repair work to be
done and to generally assume responsibility for the smooth running of the
corporation.
Article 16
The board of directors shall meet at least four times a year to hear the
manager's report, examine the quarterly accounts and, at the first meeting
following the close of a financial year, to approve the annual accounts and
the balance sheet.
At these meetings the board of directors shall also take all decisions
within its sphere of competence thiat are not the responsibility of the man-
ager.
Article 17
The manager shall attend the meetings of the board of directors in an
advisory capacity.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 6
Article 18
The corporation's industrial accounting shall be in the hands of the
manager. He shall prepare the profit and loss accounts and the balance
sheet once a year and shall draw up inventories. He shall submit these
to the board of directors no later than three months after the close of
the financial year.
Article 19
The corporation's statutes shall indicate who shall be responsible for
auditing its accounts. The auditor(s) shall examine the accounts at least
once a year. His (their) report shall be attached to the accounting state-
ments submitted each year to the board of directors.
Article 20
The corporation's statutes, amendments to these, the balance sheet and
profit and loss account, and any appointment or dismissal of a manager shall
be published free of charge in the Official Gazette of Burundi.
Article 21
The corporation's net results, in the form of a surplus or a deficit,
shall be established by deducting all operating and running expenses and
financial charges from its gross receipts.
Repayments that the corporation is required to make in respect of
investment costs shall not be included in these charges.
Article 22
When there is a surplus, this surplus shall be appropriated in accord-
ance with the corporation's statutes.
A percentage of the surplus may be set aside for distribution among
the corporation's workers and employees.
An amount, not exceeding 15% of the subscribed proportion of the
corporation's capital may be set aside as preferential remuneration of
subscribed capital under Article 21 above.
Any surplus not used to reimburse investment costs, for distribution
among the workers and employees or for preferential remuneration of third-
party participations shall be paid into the reserve.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 7
Article 23
If the net result is a deficit, this deficit shall in the first instance
be charged to the reserve.
If the reserve is insufficient, the deficit may be carried forward at
the decision of the board of directors, who shall take appropriate measures
to charge the deficit brought forward to the surplus of the following finan-
cial year.
If, in the view of the board of directors, this is not possible, the
matter shall be referred to the Minister of Agriculture, through govern-
ment representative on the board. The Minister shall take whatever meas-
ures are necessary.
Article 24
The corporation itself shall be! exempt of all direct taxes on profits.
The distribution of bonuses to its personnel or of profits among holders
of participations shall be subject t;o tax in accordance with the laws of
Burundi.
Article 25
The corporation shall be governed by the corporation legislation cur-
rently in force in Burundi with which it shall comply in respect of worker
and staff safety, social security, the staff committee and in all other
respects.
Article 26
Upon the expiry of its duration, or before its full term if the Minister
of Agriculture should so decide by ministerial order, the corporation shall
be wound up.
He shall appoint two liquidatoros for this purpose, one of whom may be
the manager of the corporation. On the date of their appointment they shall
jointly assume the powers of the board of directors.
The work of the liquidators sha:Ll be subject to audit under the provi-
sions of Article 19 above.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 2
Page 8
Article 27
All surplus net assets shall be distributed among the capital subscribers
in proportion to their holdings.
BUJUMBURA, July 30, 1972



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Assumptions for RDS Financial Projections
Income Statements
1.        The tonnage of fish purchased from fishermen, and of fish sold
was derived as follows:
---------------------Y e a r---------------------
1976   1977   1978   1979    1980    1981    1982
No. of centers               2       3      4       5       5        5        5
No. of stations              0       0.5    2       4       5        5        5
No. of operating
lift-net units
- in centers 1/        80    150    200    250       250      250     250
- stations              -     30      60    120      150      150     150
Total                  80    180    260    370       400      400     400
Production of center
units 2/ (tons)        1,600  3,050  4,150  5,500   6,000   6,250   6,250
Less:  15% (fishermen
consumption)             240    458    623    825       900      938     938
Net purchases of
centers (tons)         1,360  2,592  3,527  4,675   5,100   5,312   5,312
Production of station
units 3/ (tons)                  450  1,050  2,250   3,150   3,600   3,750
Less: 15% (fishermen
consumption)                      68    158    338      473      540     563
Net purchases of
stations (tons)                  382    892  1,912   2,677   3,060   3,187
Total net purchases from
fishermen (tons)       1,360  2 974  4,419  6,587   7,777   8,372   8,499
Total Purchases from
fishermen
(FBu '000) 4/         20,400 44 610 66,285 98,805 116,655 125,580 127,485
1/   Beyond 1976, fifty per center.
2/   Thirty per station.
3/   A unit is expected to yield 15, 20 and 25 tons annually in its first
three years of operations, and 25 tons beyond.
4/   At FBu 15/kg.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 2
Cont'd
-          ---------Y   e  a  r----------
1976   1977   1978   1979    1980    1981    1982
No. of Purse Seine
Units 1/                                   1       2        4       5        5
Total Catch (tons)                         100    220       440     580      600
Less:  5% (fishermen
consumption)                               5      il      22       29       30
Net Catch (tons)                            95    209       418     551      570
Of which - Predators (15%)                  14      31       63      83       86
- Ndagala (85%)                   81    178       355     468      484
Ndagala Available for
Processing in Centers
(tons)                 1,360  2,592  3,608  4,853   5,455   5,780   5,796
Ndagala Sold Fresh in
Centers (10%) - tons    136    259    361    486         546      578      580
Revenues from Sales 2/
of Fresh Ndagala
(FBu'000)              2,720  5,180  7,220  9,720  10,920  11,560  11,600
Ndagala Sold, Dried and
Smoked in Centers
(90%) - Tons           1,224  2,333  3,247  4,367   4,909   5,202   5,216
Revenue from Sales of
Dried and Smoked
Ndagala in Centers 3/
(FBu'000)             28,091 53 ,?542 74,519 100,223 112,662 119,386 119,707
Revenue from Sales of Fresh
Predator Fish in
Centers (FBu'000) 4/        -      -    490   1,085   2,205   2,905   3,010
Total Sales from Centers
(FBu'000)             30,811 58,722 82,229 111,028 125,787 133,851 134,317
Total Sales from
Stations 5/                    8,278 19,330  41,443  58,011  66,310  69,062
Total Fish Sales
(PBu'OOO)             30,811 67,000 101,559 152,471 183,798 200,161 203,379
_/   Catch equal to 100 tons for the first year of operations, and 120 tons
a year thereafter.
2/   At FBu 20/kg.
3/   At FBu 85/kg processed fish or FBu 22.95/kg equivalent fresh fish.
4/   At FBu 35/kg.
5/   All the output of stations would be sold dried at FBu 65/kg or FBu 21.67/kg
equivalent of fresh fish.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 3
2.        Interest revenues from credit sales of fully-equipped lift net
units are calculated on the basis of 5 years loans, at 10%, with a grace
period of one year.  *Lhe number and type of unit sold each year has been
assumed as follows:
----Y e a r---------------
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
No. of New Units Sold on
Credit                          lU       80    l10      55      16      22
Of Which:  Metal Trimarans        55      45      62     17       -       -
Metal Catamarans       20     15      20       6      -       -
Wooden Trimarans 1/  25       16      22       6      -       -
Fiberglass 1/          -       4       6     26      16      22
The cost of these units to the fishermen would be: 2/
M4etal Trimaran:    FBu 199,000
Metal Catamaran:   FBu 164,000
Wooden Trimaran:   FBu 148,000
Fiberglass Trimaran: FBu 169,000
New credit sales would therefore a1ount to:
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Total (FBu'000)                     17,925 14,459 19,888  7,299  1,200  1,650
Credit Amount 3/ (FBu'000)         17,029 13,736 18,894  6,934  1,140  1,568
Credit would be extended to the fishermen on the following terms:
Wooden Units:       3 years, 10% interest, no grace period
Metal Units:        5 years, 10%, 1 year grace period.
The corresponding interest and principal repayments would be:
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Interest (FBu'000)                   1,702  2,971  4,385  4,215  3,153  1,976
Principal (FBu'000)                  1,063  4,760  8,645 11,755 13,339  9,411
1/   Wooden units, which have a three year life, would all be replaced with
fiberglass after 1979. Only hulls are then financed.
2/   From Annex 9.
3/   Fishermen would be required to make a 5% downpayment.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 4
3.        Direct sales of equipment to fishermen were estimated as follows:
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
No. of Nets                           100      50     50       -    200    200
Cost 1/ (FBu'OOO)                   2,500  1,250  1,250        -  5,000  5,000
No. of Lamps                          300    150    390    600    390    390
Cost 2/ (FBu'000)                   2,400  1,200  3,120  4,800  3,120  3,120
No. of Motors                           -      50     50      50     50      50
Cost 3/ (FBu'000)                       -  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500  1,500
No. of Sets of Other Equipment        100      50     50      50     50      50
Cost 4/ (FBu'OOO)                   1,500    750    750    750    750    750
No. of Sets of Spare Parts            100    130    150    130    160    150
Cost 5/ (FBu'OOO)                   2,500  3,250  3,750  3,250  4,000  3,750
Total Cost (FBu'OOO)                8,900  7,950 10,370 10,300 14,370 14,120
It is expected that the RDS would sell the above equipment with a 15% mark-up.
4.        On the expenses side, estimates of costs of purchases are presented
in para. 1. The cost of operating a purse seine unit has been estimated,
excluding depreciation, at FBu 870,000 per annum (see Annex 9 Table 7). Costs
of operating the centers and the stations have been calculated on the basis
cf models included in Annex 9, Tables 11 and 14. Marketing and administra-
tive expense estimates are at Annex 9, Tables 18 and 21. Beyond Project year
3, they were assumed to increase by 10% per annum to reflect the increased
volume of activities.
A provision of 10% has been made to cover bad debts. Depreciation has been
calculated in accordance with the schedule presented in Table 4. The following
useful lives have been assumed:
1/   At FBu 25,000 per net.
2/   At FBu 8,000 per lamp.
3/   At FBu 30,000 per motor.
4/   At FBu 15,000 per set.
Sl   At FBu 25,000 per set.



ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Page 5
Years
Buildings                         20
Machinery and Equipment           10
Vehicles                           5
Reforestation Tract                - 1/
Accordingly, centers and stations are estimated to be depreciated respectively
over 14.8 and 9.4 years.
5.        The RDS is assumed to borrow from BNDE for the following purposes:
(i) Procurement of equipped units.
(ii) Procurement of spare parts and materials.
(iii) Financing of fishermen credit.
(iv) Financing of plant, buildings and purse seine units.
The first two categories have been assumed to be short term credit (6 months)
at 8-1/2% interest.  Financing of fishermen credit is expected to be at 6%
interest to the RDS, with a two year grace period, and payable over the
following four years. Financing of plant is assumed to be at 8-1/2% interest,
no grace period, with a 10 year amortization period. Beyond 1980, the RDS
should not require outside financing.
Balance Sheets
6.        Accounts receivable were assumed to be one twelfth of annual sales.
Stocks of materials and spare parts were assumed to equal one month worth
of purchases plus 3 months of direct operating expenses. Equipment in
transit consists of equipped units and spare parts to be sold the following
year. Amounts due from fishermen vas calculated with para 2. Accounts
payable have been assumed to increase by FBu 500,000 per annum. The short-
term debt refers to the equipment in transit. The long-term debt is due
for (i) plants and buildings, and (ii) fishermen credit (see para 5).
The capital of the RDS has been paid jointly by GOB and FAO.
March 10, 1976
1/   Recovery costs have been included in the cost of wood used at centers
(Annex 9, Table 11).



BURUNDI
PISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PEChE
Regional Development Society (RDS)
Societé Régionale de Développement (SRD)
Income Statements
Comptes d'Exploitation
(FBu'000)
 _  ______________________Year/Année--------------------------
1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
REVENUES                                                                                                                    RECETTES
Sales of Fish (in tons)                                                                                                   Ventes de poissons (tonnes)
Predators (fresh)                           _          _          14         31         63         83         86          Voraces (frais)
Ndagala (fresh)                            136        259        361        486        546        578        580          Ndagala (frais)
Ndagala (dried and smoked)               1,224      2,333      3,247      4,367      4,909      5,202      5 216          Ndagala (seché et fumé)
Ndagala (dried)                                      382         892      1.912      2,677      3.060      3.187          Ndagala (seché)
Total                              1,360    2Î974        4.514      6,796      8,195      8,923      9.069          Total
Sales of Fish (FBu'00')                                                                                                  Ventes de poisson (FBu'O0o)
Predators (fresh)                           -          -         490      1,085      2,205      2,905      3,010          Voraces (frais)
Ndagala (fresh)                          2,720      5,180      7,220      9,720    10,920    11,560    11,600             Ndagala (frais)
Ndagala (dried and smoked)              28,091    53,542    74,519   100,223   112,662   119,386   119,707                Ndagala (seché et fumé)
Ndagala (dried)                             -       8_278    19,330    41,443    58,011    66,310    69,062               Ndagala (seché)
Total                             30,811    67OO    101,559   152,471   183,798   200,161   203.379                 Total
Net Profit on Equipment Sales               -       1,335      1,192      1.555      1,545      2.155      2 118          Bénéfice net - ventes d'e5uiDment
Interest income                             -       1,702      2,971      4,385     4.215       3.153      1.976          Intérets
Total Revenues                    303811    70         105,722   158.411   189 558   205,469   207.473              Total des recette.
OPERATlNG EXPENSES                                                                                                          DEPENSES D'EXPLOITATION
Purchases (in tons)                      1,360      2,974      4.419      6.587      7,777      8,372      8.499         Achats (en tonnes)
Purchases (FBu'000)                     20,400    44,610    66,285    98,805   116,655   125,580   127,485               Achats (But'000)
Direct costspurse saine units                                    870      1,740      3,480      4,350      4,350         COuts directs  de l'exploitation des unité.
a seinue tournante
Direct costs of centers                  9,322     14,523    19,184    24,598    26,315    27,070    27,070               Couts directs d'exploitation deg centres
Direct coasts of stations                             872      1,752      4,383      4,414      4,435      4,435         Couts directs d'exploitation des stations
Marketing                                  500      1,125      1,670      1,837      2,021      2,223      2,445         Commercialisation
Administration                           1,000      2,720      2,720      2,992      3,291      3,620      3,982         Administration
Provisions                                  -         276        773      1,303      1,597      1,649      1,139         Provisions
Depreciation                             1,280      2,889      3.983      4,862      5.617      5,867      5,867         Amortissement
Total Operating Expenses          32,502    67,015    97.237   140,520   163,390   174,794   176,773                Total des dé^enses d'exploitation
OPERATING INCOME                             (1,691)    3,022       8,485    17.891      26,168    30,675    30.700        REVENU D'EXPLOITATION
Less:  Interest                          1.989     4           6.132      7.334      7,570      6          5.229         Moinas  Intérèts                                        t-|t4
Net Income (lots)                       (3,680     (1.003)    2,353    10.557       18_598    24_355    25.471           henefice (Perte) Net                                    |t
March 8, 1976                                                                                                              Ie R m,zr,, 1q7R



FIISPER:E  DEVFLOFIENT PROJECT                                                                        ANDEX 5
FROJET DE DSEVLOYPENT DE tA PECHE                                                                        Table 2
Regîcc.l Developmnt Souiecy  (RDS)
So-ieto Regi .n..e de Deteloppetet (SRD)
Sources ccd AoElicat-on cf Fonds
Sources et ntîllsaleti_ des fonds
(FBu '000)
_____se-----a-------nYea/Al- -------------------    si.-Y... S-.ocry/
Rescee des 6 Accéos
1976       1977       1978       1979      1980        1981        1976-1981           1982
Sources                                                                                                                                                 Sources
Operaticg ijo un                            (1,691)   3,022        8,485     17,891    26,168    30,675           84,550            30,700            Re-es. d'eePloitotioc
Depreciation                                1,280    2889         3,983      4.862      5,617       5,867        24,498             5,867            Attortaiaeect
(411    5 3.911     12,468    22,753    31,765       36.542        109,048            36.567            Vente de moteriel (cout-nt)
Sale cf "urls (ut cos)                         -      8,900        7,950     10,370     10,300      14,370        51,890            :4,120            Vente de materiel (to,Xuut>
Fisherrmec du~potrymnts                        -       3,396       2,723      3,744      1,115          60        11,038                 82           Co-ntibeti-o  - pèchacre
PisSermon princtpul repay=euts              5,08i    5.591         4.760      864       11.755    13.339          49.171             9.411            Acompte - p2cheur-
5,081   i7,887       15,433    22.759    23,170        27,769       112,099            23,613
lorrocîuu                                                                                                                                                Fe Prut
Shor- tem                                                                                                                                             Court terea
(i)  Puruhoce cf units                  20,425   16,459       22,638      8 049         -          -          67,571                -                 (1)  Achat d'cnitén
(ii) POcuhase cf p'rtn                   9,900    7,950       10,370    10 300          -          _          37,520                -                (if)  Achet de matériel
Long Tc                                                                                                                                               Long Terme
Pi)  Fluors a-d Buildings               17,485   11,285       12,635      7 700       2,500        -          51,605                -                 (1)  Usines  t Ittmeuùles
(ii)  Fisheren icredit                      -      17.029      13.736      18.994      6,974     1,140          57.733               -                (ii)  C-edit - pêcheurs
Total                                      48orro1isîs  46,B0   52.723  59,379    44.943  9,434     1,140        214,429
Grant-:                                          9                            __-                      -                9                             Sb-ien     s
Tocal Soureso                           51.489      ,521      87.280        455      64389    65,451          435585             60.160            Total des sources
Applicatio.s                                                                                                                                             Utiliî-ti.os
Plouc sud Equponcut                                                                                                                                   Usine et EciP-nent
-   Ercipoect iu tracesi           29,325   14,409        33,008    18,349    15,570    15,770           136,431             16,000               - Mtetriel en tronset
-  Plants ccd Bulîdings               .18928   11.285        12.635       7,700      2,500        -           53.048                                   U - Caisse et l-merbl-s
48 253   35.694       45.643     26,.49    18070    15.?70          189.479             16008
PrîfluipaO Repaymsents                                                                                                                                Rsîmtbosrsemest do   Prsincial
-  Short-tere:                                                                                                                                    Court terne
(i'  USita                               10,425      16,459     22,4,38      8,449        -          67,571                -                      (i)  Unîtes
1i11  Pars.                                8.900       7.950      10.170    l0.3C0                     37 520               -mtco
S.btsoal                         29.325       24.409    331008    19.349           -         1052091               -                               retel prtic1
-  Long ic-m                                                                                                                                      Long cerne
(il  Pla-t                                1,178       2,039       3'1:64     3,843      4,336         14,462             4,707                    (i)  uOinr
(iij  Fisher-a- Credio                       -                     3,8S 93    7,268     12,024         23,185            14,327                   (ii)  Credit - pecheurs
Subsolal                          l,l?C        2,039      6,157     11,111     16,362         37,647            19,034                             lotal partiel
rotal                                      -      30.503      26.448    39.965       29.460     16.362       142,738             19.034             Trtai
Intecent pay-,ers                          1,989    4,025         6,132      7,134      7,570      6,320         33,370             5,229            I7terêts
ucreose il .Ou.king curitlo
eucludit, cash                         1.838    4.573       68014    8, ,595        4.435      2.190         27,645              (315)                       1-iexcltsled  d-  despe-ibilite
Total Appliati-c                     52.080   74.795       84,237    Bl, 9@3    59,535    40,642           393.232            39,948             Totol des upplioctieon
7ncreoso (detrease) i  coSù)                (591)   1,726        3,043      8,5I 2     4,854    24.809          42.353            27,232             A..og  tî   des  disp-jlbjlie
MAuooeulord  ..sh                           5,048    5,774        9,317    18,329    23,183    47.992            47,992            68,224              Dipeibi Mar  1
Sarcla S :976                                                                                                        le~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 8 Mors 1876



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Regionai Development Society (RDS)
Société Regionale de Développement (SRD)
Balance Sheet
Bilans
(FBu'000)
At December 31                                   Actual/Actuelî'                     Forecast/Prévision
-YearlAnne5e------------- -_---                                                               Au 31 Decemnbre
1975        1976       1977       1978                 1980       1981       1982
ASSETS                                                                                                                                  IMMOBILISATIONS
Current Assets                                                                                                                          Actifs realisables
Cash and deposits                            5,639      5,048      6,774      9,817    18,329    23,183    47,992    68,224           Disponibilités
Accounts receivable                            135      2,268      5,583      8,810    13 201    15,797    17,122    17,289            Effets a encaisser
Materials and spares                         5,431      5,621      7,379    10,666    15,370    17,709    19,074    19,092             Materiel et piece detachees
Equipment in transit                       _     _     29,325    24,409    33,008    18,349    15,570    15,770    16,000              Equipment en transit
Sub-Total                                  11,205      42262         4     4     ,14 62,30 6 .2    4 7                120    6        Total partiel
Due from Fishermen                                9,609       4,528    15,966    24,942                30,370    18171          328      Dette - pecheurs
Fixed Assets                                                                                                                             Immobilisation
Plant and buildings                        10,296      12,796    30,281    41,566    54,201    61,901    64,401    64,401             Batiments et usines
Less:  Accumulated depreciation                -        1,280      4,169      8.152    13,014    18,631    24.498    30,365           Moins.Amortissement cumulé
Net Plant                                   10,296     11,516    26,112    33,414    41,187    43,270    39,903    34,036              Immobilisations nettes
Work in progress                             1,057     17,485    11,285    12,635       7,700      2,500                               Construction en cours
TOTAL ASSETS                                     32,167      75.791    97.508   133.292   149,327   148,399   158,032   164,969          TOTAL DE L'ACTIF
LIABILITIES AND EQUTITY                                                                                                                  PASSIF ET FONDS PROPRES
Current Liabilities                                                                                                                      Dettes exigibles a court terme
Accounts payable                                15        500      1,000      1,500     2,000      2,500      3,0Oo      3,500         Comptes créditeurs
Short term debt                               -        29,325    24,409    33,008    18,349          -          -          -          Dettes a court terme
Long Term Debt (BNDE)                                                                                                                    Dettes a long terme - BNDE
Plants and buildings                          -        17,485    27,592    38,188   42,824        41,481    37,143    32,436          Batiments et usines
Fishermen credit                              -           -       17,029    30,765   45,766       45,432    34,548    20,221           Crédit - pêcheurs
EQUITY                                                                                                                                   FONDS PROPRES
Government                                 32,152      32,161    32,161    32,161   32,161        32,161    32,161    32,161           Subvention de l'Etat
Retained earnings                             -        (3,680)   (4,683)   (2,330)   8.227        26,825    51,180    76.651           Benefices non distribués
-        28.481    27,478    29,831   40,388       58,986    83,341   108,812
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                                 75,79192                                                       164 969      TOTAL DU PASSIF ET DES FONDS PROPRES
Il >
I/ Unatidited                                                                                                                            1/ Avant audit
Match 8, 1976                                                                                                                            le 8 Mars 1976



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Regional Development Society (RDS)
Societe Régionale de Développement (SRD)
Depreciation Schedule
Amortissement des biens et equipment
(FBu'000)
-------------------------Year/Année--------------------
1976       1977        1978       1979        1980        1981       1982
Plant in Operation at 1/1/1976             10,296       1,030        1,030      1,030       1,0-30      1,030      1,030       1,030    Immlobilisation au 1/1/1976
Addition in 1976                            2,500         250          250         250        250         250         250        250    Addition en 1976
Addition in 1977:                                                                                                                        Addition en 1977:
1 Center                             4,735                       319        319         319         319        319         319           1 Centre
1 Station                            2,700                       255        255         255         255        255         255           1 Station
Marketing                            2,750                       475        475         475         475        475         475           Commarslicaron
Headquarters                         7,300                       560        560         560         560        560         560           Siege
17,485                    1,609       1,609      1,609       1.609       1.609      1,609
Addition in 1978:                                                                                                                        Addition en 1978:
I Center                             4,735                                  319         319         319        319         319           1 Centre
I Station                            2,700                                  255         255         255        255         255           1 Station
I Purse Seine Unit                   2,500                                  250         250         250        250         250           1 Unité i seine tournante
Marketing                            1,350                                  270         270         270        270         270           Commercialisation
11,285                                1,094      1,094       1.094       1,094      1^094
Addition in 1979:                                                                                                                        Addition en 1979:
1 Center                             4,735                                              319         319        319         319           1 Centre
2 Stations                           5,400                                              310         310        310         310           2 Stations
1 Purse Seine IUnit                  2,500                                              250         250        250         250           1 Unite  à seine tournante
12,635                                              879         879        879         879
Addition in 1980:                                                                                                                        Addition en 1980:
1 Station                            2,700                                                          255        255         255           1 Station
2 Purse Seine Units                  5.000                                                          500        500         500           2 Unités à seine tourrnate
7,700                                                         755         755        755
Addition in 1981:                                                                                                                        Addition en 1981:
1 Purse Seine Unit                   2500                     __                                               250        250            1 Unite à seine tournante                             ta
TOTAL                                                         2.890    23983         4,862       5,617       5_867          5 .B67 TOTAL
le 10 Mars 1976
Match 10, 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique
(BNDE)
1.        Under the proposed Project, most funds for the Regional Development
Society (RDS) would be channelled through the BNDE (para 3.11); further the
BNDE would provide technical assistance to RDS, particularly in the areas
of financial control (para 4.04) and credit operations to the fishermen (para
4.05). This annex describes BNDE's operations and objectives.
Background
2.        BNDE, established in 1966, is a multipurpose development Bank owned
45% by the Government and parastatal institutions, 9% by local commercial
banks, 17% each by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) and
the German Development Society and 6% each by a commercial bank and a
brewery, both foreign owned. On December 31, 1974, the paid-in capital was
FBu 120.7 million (US$1.5 million). BNDE finances agriculture, trade,
industry, crafts, housing and household items. It also provides management
consultancy services to Government, parastatal and private institutions.
For the year ending December 31, 1974, BNDE undertook 1,023 operations
totalling FBu 150.2 million (US$1.8 million).
Organization Management and Staffing
3.        All BNDE's shareholders are represented on its Board of Directors
which meets about six times a year. The Board approves all lending opera-
tions except small equipment loans. 1/ The present Chairman of the Board
is also the full-time General Manager.
4.        BNDE has a total staff of forty including seven professionals, two
of which have been provided under the technical assistance program of CCCE.
Further, the UNDP has provided two technical advisers, in agriculture credit
and in management; the twv advisers take an active part in BNDE's operations.
The professional staff size is adequate to handle the relatively low volume
of lending activities. Burundi professionals have all been trained abroad
and the expatriates usually have local counterparts.
1/   In 1974 BNDE made 920 small equipment loans averaging FBu 25,000 (US$320)
only. The balance, approved by the Board, consisted of 103 operations,
with an average of FBu 1,234,000 (US$16,000) per operation.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        BMDE has three main divisions, responsible for administration,
small equipment loans and credit follow-up, and new loans. The two UNDP
advisers report to the Deputy General Manager. This set-up appears satis-
factory. BNDE has no branches outside its central office in Bujumbura, as
investment opportunities are scarce and would not justify it at present.
Operations
6.        A sectorial breakdown, and relevant data on BNDE's activities
appears as Table 1 of this Annex. Over the past three years, BNDE has
undertaken an average of 909 operations per annum; the average credit amount
was FBu 258,000 (US$3,300). The diLstribution of the loans was very uneven:
marketing loans accounted for 73% of its lending, while small equipment
accounted for 90% of the number of operations.
7.        Marketing loans are made mostly to companies (usually cooperatives)
which pass the funds on to traders, the traders buy crops such as coffee or
rice from the farmers, in the interior, and sell it to the companies. The
interest rate on these short term loans is 6 to 7% or 2-3% above the redis-
count rate with commercial banks. Loans for coffee marketing were guaranteed
by the Government until 1974; now that the guarantee no longer applies, BNDE
has ceased to market such loans for coffee crops and limits itself to rice
crops, where only two companies operate, and control is easier.
8.        Most long term housing loans are designed to enable Government
employees to own their dwellings. Rediscounting, up to FBu 50 million has
been secured with the Banque de la Republique du Burundi (BRB - the Central
Bank) and commercial banks, but has not been used. These loans are secured
by mortgages. BNDE also extends housing loans to educational institutions,
with a Government guarantee.
9.        Small equipment loans, which average FBu 19,000 per operation
(US$242) are made usually to Government employees for household items. It
seems that there is a high demand for such loans.  The Central Bank has set
a ceiling on these loans of FBu 20 million per annum (US$255,000).
10.       Marketing, housing and small equipment loans represented over the
1971-1974 period 12.5% of BNDE's lending and 96.5% of its number of opera-
tions; the balance was for crafts, industries, commerce and agriculture.
11.       While BNDE strives to expand its medium and long-term activities,
notably agricultural and industrial credits, the lack of opportunities in
these sectors is an almost unsurmountable bottleneck. BNDE's medium and
long-term agricultural lending has been mostly to finance working capital,
seeds and fertilizers. These operations have had limited success, as the
default rates have been high, and the beneficiaries have been, in most cases,
Governient employees who are not engaged full time in agriculture.  Neverthe-
less, BNDE is pursuing its efforts to expand agricultural lending. In mid



ANNEX 6
Page 3
1975, it published a booklet to be used by agricultural extension services,
to help the staff to identify financially viable opportunities, and it is
nov sponsoring the creation of a guarantee fund for agricultural operations.
BNDE is the only financial institution in Burundi engaged in medium and long-
term agricultural credit. Lack of entrepreneurs, the narrowness of the market
and paucity in raw materials have hampered the development of the industrial
sector.
12.       Prospects for agricultural and industrial lending appear somewhat
brighter now than in the past. The creation of regional development societies,
of tea and rice cooperatives, should ease the credit mechanisms. BNDE has
taken a participation in two new industrial ventures (brick and pesticides
plants) and other projects appear promising. Further, the African Development
Bank made a loan in 1975 to finance an international hotel in Bujumbura. The
funds are channelled through the BNDE to the beneficiary; BNDE also provides
technical assistance to the Hotel Society.
13.       BNDE provides management and organization expertise to public and
private enterprises, at their request, sometimes at a nominal fee. A newly
created dairy has entrusted BNDE with the job of establishing financial
control procedures and of reviewing periodically its financial performance.
Further, BNDE is now appraising potential industrial ventures with the hope
of attracting entrepreneurs.
Financial Aspects
14.       BNDE's balance sheets and income statements over the past few years
appear as tables 2 and 3 of this Annex. Except for a small housing loan from
CCCE in 1973, BNDE obtained no medium and long term loans until end 1974. 1/
Its resources at end of 1974 consisted of paid in capital and retained earn-
ings (FBu 137 million) and short-term funds (FBu 83.8 million including a
FBu 30 million Gover ment deposit). At the same time, most of BNDE's capital
vas committed to medium and long-term loans (FBu 74 million); short-term
loans amounted to FBu 29 million.
15.       In view of the 2-3% spread on marketing loans (para 7), these have
not contributed significantly to BNDE's profits, the bulk of which comes from
seal1 equipient and real estate loans, small equipment loans at 5-6%, which
are financed by BNDE's capital; the same applies to housing loans as the
rediscount facility (para 4) has not been called upon. BNDE's profits in
1974 at FBu 5.3 million represented 2.5% of average total assets and 4.0% of
equity. These figures are on the low side. Considering BNDE's constraints
(paras 4 and 5) they are not unreasonable.
1/   An FBu 24 Million loan from KfW was signed at end 1974.  The loan is over
10 years, including a 2-year grace is at 0.75% interest. It is to finance
small and medium scale industries, crafts and agriculture. There were
no drawdowns at Sept. 30, 1975.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
16.       Since (i) BNDE's marketing loans carried a Government guarantee
(para 7) until 1974 and are now being phased out; (iî) its small equipment
loans are covered by a 5% guarantee fund, which has proved sufficient; and
(iii) its housing loans are secured by mortgages (para 4), approximately 96%
of BNDE's lending in 1974 was welL secured. BNDE's ventures in agriculture
and industry however represent a bigger risk (para 10); in these two sectors,
where BNDE wishes to expand its activities, careful financial appraisal of
projects will be particularly important, if BNDE wishes to remain profitable.
A reevaluation of interest rates and spreads is required, and is now under
consideration by BNDE's management.
November 6, 1975



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENE PROJECT
Projet de Développement de la P6che
Banque Nationale de Développement Economique (BNDE)
Loans Approved and Relevant Data
Credits Accordes et DonneesConjointes
----------. -------Year/Année-----------------
1972             1973             1974               Total          _       _
No.   Amount/   No,   Amount/    No.   Amount/    No.   Amount/    Ne.   Amount/    Interest Rate/  Participation                   Terms - Years
Montant          Montant             Montant            Montant            Montant   Taux  d'Intér-t                         Terme - Années
(FBU million)    (FBU million)    (FBU million)        (FBU million)       (FBU million)         (%)
Marketing                          6       214.0    9      218.6        6     83.4        21     516.0       0.7      73.2          6-7                  -                  0.5         Credits de campagne
Crafts, Industry and Commerce  7           31.5    4         9.0        1      0.3        12       40.8      0.4       5.8          7-8                 20                  2.3         Artisanat, industrie et
Housing                          30         14.3   26       35.4       39     38.2        95       87.9      3.5      12.5           8-10                8                  10         ITnobilier
Agriculture                        2         2.9    5         2.2      29       2.9       36        8.0      1.3       1.1           6                  10-20               1-10        Agriculture
Small Equipment                 877         12.7  719       12.0    920       23.1   2,516        47.8    92.3         6.8           5-6                10-20               1-2         Petit aquipement
Small Agriculture Equipment    5            0.3    7         0.5      25        1.7      37         2.5      1.4       0.4          5-6                 10-20               1-2         Petit equipement agricole
Others                            3         0.5    4         0.4        3      0.6        10        1.5      0.4       0.2          5-6                   -                 1-3         Autres
TOTAL                      930       276.2  774       271.1  t23    150.2   2.727           704 5   100 O    100.0                                                                TOAL 
Le 5 Novembre 1975
November 5, 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 6
Table/Tableau 2
BURUNDI
FISERIES, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projet de D lve1oppement de la Plche
Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE)
Balance Sheets
Bilans
(FBu'000)
At December 31              At SePtember 30
au 31 decesrbe              au 30 septembre
1972        1973         1974             1975
ASSETS                                                                                              ACTIF
Current
Cash and Bank Deposits                6,643      16,367         9,807              6,811          Valeurs disponibles
Accounts Receivable                     810      13,409        33.059              8,087          Valeurs realisables a court terme
7.453     29.776        42.866              14.898
Loan Portfolio                                                                                      I ncours clients
Cash Advances ard Short-Term Loans 44,964        33,939        29,224             33,507          ivances de caisse et prets a court terme
Mledium Term Loans                   18,753      38,847        44,398             42,521          Prets a moyen terme
long Term Loans                      65.723     68.961        89.095             176.160          Prêts a long terme
Sub-Total                           129.440    141,747        162,717            252,188          Sub-Total
Doubtful Loans                          194         319           604                625          Prets douteux,
Unrecoverable Loans                       1           1             1                  1          Irrécouvrable
Less:  Provisions for Bad Debts         -         _                53                  -          Provisions en moins
Net Loans                           129.635    142,067        163,269            252.814          Encours net
EZuitv Participations                         -          -             -               12,069       Prises de participation
Fixed Assets (Net)                        24,752      20,459        19,723              19,511      Immobilisations (nettes)
TOTAL 161840                                      .30Â       225.838             299.292           TOTAL
LIABILITIES                                                                                         PASSIF
Current                                                                                             Exigible a ve
Sundry Creditors                        754      12,186        33,208             48,462          Crediteurs divers
Deposits                             29.967      44,635        50.575             32.512          Dép8ts à vue
30.721     56.821        83.783              80,974
Short-Terre                                                                            32,000       Exigible à court terme
Medium and Long-Term                                                                                Exigible a moyen et long terme
CCCE                                    -         2,129         1,909              1,775          CCCE
Guarantee Funds/Provisions                 1,766       1,553         3,168              4,082       Fonds de garantie/provisions
Equity                                                                                              Capital propre et réserves
Share Capital (Paid in)             120,700    120,700        120,700            160,700          Capital social
Accumulated Profits                   8.653      11.099       16_298              19.761          Réserves
TOTAL                                161.840    192,302        225,858            299,292         TOTAL
Source: Annual Report, 1974 and BNDE
Rapport Annuel, 1974 et BNDE
November 5, 1975
le 5 novembre 1975



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projet de Développement de la Pêche
Banque Nationale de Developpement Economique (BNDE)
Profit and Loss Statements
Compte d'Exploitation et de Profits et Pertes
(FBu'OO0)
-------Year/Année --------
1972     1973       1974      1975 Y!
Income                                                                                Produits
Interest and Commissions            12,435   13,035    15,240    12,405             Intérêts et commissions
Management Fees                      3,078    3,234      3?163     1,610            Commissions sur gestion
Rental                                 600      488        480       495            Loyers
Other Income                           139      925      1,29      1.107            Produits divers
Total Income                 16,252   17,682    20,182    15,617                 Total des produits
Expenses                                                                              Charges
Administrative Expenses             11,667   11,633    12,857      9,955            Frais administratifs
Depreciation                         1,821    1,820      1,544     1,158            Amortissement
Financial Expenses                   1,568    1,320        404       954            Frais financiers
Provisions                              48      371        119         32           Provisions
Total Expenses               15,104   15,144    14,924    12,099                 Total des produits
Net Operating Income          1,148    2,537       32518                      Benefice net
1/  First nine months.                                   1/  Premier neuf mois.
Source:  Annual Report, 1974 and BNDE                    Source:  Rapport annuel, 1974 et BNDE
January 7, 1976                                          le 7 janvier 1976



ANNEX 7
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coastal Region Developinent Activities
Regional Development Study
1.        The proposed regional development study would be designed to prepare
an integrated development program for the region along Lake Tanganyika, extend-
ing from the city of Bujumbura to the border with Tanzania. The study would
focus on crop development (both foodcrops and commercial crops) but it would
also cover foodcrop marketing and processing, social services, transport, and
possible rural industries development. The study should devote particular
attention to organizational and managerial problems associated with current
and proposed development schemes located in the region. including training
needs for program staff.
2.        The study would require an estimated 6 man-vears of expatriate
technical assistance and 9 man-years of consultants and staff employed
locally. Terms of reference would be prepared under the direction of the
Bureau Technique d'etudes in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture's
Planning Director. The Bureau Technique d'etudes would oversee selection of
consultants to carry out the study, supervise their work, and review the
completed study and proposals for action.
Regional Development Activities
3.        Officials of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Bureau Technique
d'etudes have identified several srall-scale development activities of high
priority for the coastal region which require onlv limited preparation work
and which might be undertaken within the context of the proposed Fisheries
Project. The regional development study would investigate these possibilities
and prepare detailed proposals for carrying them out, including allocation of
responsibility among government departments and parastatals and detailed cost
estimates. It is expected that thE! principal development activities to be
carried out would be: establishmert of three agricultural development centers
to provide a base for extension services, four demonstration farms, nurseries,
and community buildings (health centers. training centers, cooperative head-
quarters), development of water points, reforestation, and provision of vehi-
cles and equipment for staff. These activities should provide a physical
base and field experience that wou]d benefit future development schemes for
the region.
4.        Before starting to implemnent the preliminary development activities,
the Government would submit detailed proposals to IDA for approval.
January 5, 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
BURUNDI
Fisheries Development Project
Technical Assistance
1.        The principal responsibilities and qualifications for key personnel
for the Project would be as follows (see chart):
Regional Development Society:
(a) General Mlanager
Responsibilities
(i)  hiring and firing of staff;
(ii) supervising assignments for all the staff of the RDS;
(iii) day-to-day management of the RDS;
(iv) processing and sale of merchandize and signature all
documents in this regard;
(v) securing loans; and
(vi) ensuring that construction, maintenance and repair work
is carried out on a timely basis.
Profile:
(i) academic degree: preferably in management;
(ii)  at least five years and professional experience preferably
in a commercial entity; and
(iii) good references.
2.   Fisheries Development
Responsibilities:
(i) training of moniteurs and extension supervisors in improvement
of fishing methods;
(ii)  technical studies and trials for new fishing techniques;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(iii) procurement, including f ishing equipment, building
construction, plant equipment and transport equipment;
(iv) management of orders and imports; and
(v) training of f ishermen.
Profile:
(i)  at least five years experience in the techniques and
methods of fishing;
(ii) creative person, innovative mind;
(iii)  familiarity with procurement procedures; and
(iv) teaching ability.
3.   Production Manager
Responsibilities:
(i)  operation and maintenance of the plants;
(ii)  management of the stores including spare parts, raw
materials, and finished products at the level of the
centers and stations;
(iii)  progranming and control of deliveries of fish to
the plants;
(iv)  selection of fishermen for loans;
(v) management of the contracts with the f ishermen;
(vi)  sales of fishing material;
(vii)  quality control; and
(viii)  staff training.
Profile:
(i)  experience in fish processing;
(ii) ability in general and accounting management;
(iii) ability to coordinate l:he activities of the centers
and stations.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
4.   Comercial Manager
Responsibilities:
(i) market studies;
(ii) promotion and advertising;
(iii) pricing studies both for fresh and processed fish;
(iv) development of a sales network;
(v)  fish deliveries and financial transactions;
(vi) management of the stores for processed fish;
(vii) sales management; and
(viii) staff training.
Profile:
(i)  at least five years of experience, preferably in a
commercial enterprise dealing with agro/food
products;
(ii)  should have the comptence necessary to conduct
market studies; and
(iii) capable of organizing a sales network and manage
stores.
5.   Administration and Finance Manager
Responsibilities:
(i) general, analytical and budgetary accounting;
(ii) preparation of monthly management reports;
(iii) control of stocks;
(iv) control of cash; and
(v) personnel management.
(vi) staff training.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Profile:
(i)  Academic studies in finance and accounting;
(ii) three years of administrative experience; and
(iii) familiarity with personnel management.
6.   Technical Manager
Responsiblities:
(i) maintenance of vehi.cles and garage;
(ii) training and supervision of mechanics in the centers
and stations;
(iii) supervision of RDS force account civil works, including
construction of headquarters, centers and stations and
establishment of a boat-building yard.
Profile:
Not less than five years of experience in maintenance
of cars, machinery, and small civil works construction with
emphasis on training capability.
January 7, 1975



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Artisanal  Fishing Unit                                                               Modèle - Unité de  pêche artisanale
Center Trimaran, Metal Hulls                                                        Trimaran rattaché au centre - coques métalliques
Investment Costs                                                                             Coûts d'investissement
(FBu' 0oo)                                                                                   (milliers de FBu)
ulnit/        Unit Cost/        Total Units/      Total Cost/   Foreign Exchange/   Foreign Exchange/
Unité       Coût unitaire       Total unités       Coût total         Devises                Devises
INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                                            COUTS D'INVESTISSEnMTI
Boat                                 h bull/coque        35.0                3               105.0               52.5                   50                Bateau )/
Net                                  net/seine           25.0                1                25.0               20.0                   80                Senne
Lampe 2/                             so./nombre           R.0                3                24.0               24.0                  100                Lampes 3/
Motor 4/                             n,./nombre          30.0                1                30.0               30.0                  100                Moteur j/
Spare parts 5/                       set/'groupe         25.0                1                25.0              25.0                   100                Pieces de rechange /
rther equipment f,/                  set/groupe          15.0                1                15.0                3.0                   P0                Autres equipements t/
Total Tnvestment C,st                                                                        224.0              154.5                   69                Coûts d'investisseMent totaux
Ml !,Ietal canne 6.4 m long. 1 m wide, 0.5 m high.                                                9/  Coque métallique de 6,4 m de long, 1 m de large et 0,5 m de profondeur.
7/  Nylon liftnet:  size 9 m x 12 m = 10  a m2.                                                        Carrelet de nylon de 9 m x 12 m = 108 m2.
O   <'U0 cp kerosene pressure lamp.                                                                /  Lasmpe à petrole sous pression de 250 bougies.
T s 1/2 hp outboard motor.                                                                        5/  Moteur hors-bord de 5,5 cr.
/  Parts for motor and lamp per unit; one year's stock, or FBu 20,000 for lamps                  5/  Pieces de rechange pour moteur et lampe par bateau; stock pour un an,
(FBu ')O per night)and FRu  ,OO0 for motor (15% of investment cost).                              suit 70.0010 FBui pour les lampes (100 FBu par nuit) et 5.000 FBu par moteur
(15% du coût d'investissement).
ocnen ting booms for boats; outrigger ho"ams  pulleys, ropes, anchor, fish                        i Etitretoises; bouts dehors, poulies, cordages, ancre, caisses, etc.
hoxes, etc.
Tan1ar' 20, T97'                                                                                  le 26 janvier 1976



RStJRNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJF.CT                                                PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Artisanal Fishing Unit 1                                               Modèle - Unité de pêche artisanale i/
Cernter Trimaran, Metal Hulls                                           Trimaran rattaché au centre, coques métalliques
talcs and Operating Erpenses                                                   Ventes et frais de fonctionnement
(FBu' O00)                                                                   (milliers de FBu)
Bef ore
Development/  11/       --------Year/Année--------
Avant le projet l/           1        2          3-10
Sales                                                                                                  Ventes
Fresh fish /  - catch (tons)                -                   10.0    20.0         25.0            Poissons frais j  - Production (tonnes)
- value                     -                  225.0   500.0        £9±9                                 - valeur
Operating Costs                                                                                        Frais de fonctionnement
Wages and salaries s                        -                   88.8   l00.0        111.2            Salaires 3/
F'uel 4/                                                        48.0    48.o         48.o            Essence fi
Kerosene for lamps 5/                       -                   32.0    52.0         32.0            Petrole pour lampes /
Spare parts - motor fi                      -                    5.0      5.0         5.0            Pieces de rechange - moteur §7
Maintenance - boat 7                        -                    5.0      5.0         3.0            Entretien - coques 7/
Maintenance - net 8/                        -                    1.0      1.0          1.0           Entretien - senne §7
Spare parts - lamp q/                       -                   20.0    20.0         20.0            Pieces de rechange - lampe q/
Miscellaneous - other materials             -                    4.0      4.0         4.0            Divers - autres matériaux
Total Operating Costs j/                    -                  201.8   213.0        224.2            Total frais de fonctionnement É/
Net Operating Revenue                                           93.2    87.0        150.8            Revenu net d'exploitation
j   Assumptions:  Trimaran with liftnet 9 m x 12 m, selling                     1   Hyvotheses:  trimaran avec liftnet de 9 m x 12 vendant son
fish to project fishing center or station; fishing 200                         poisson au centre ou à une station de pêche - 200 sorties
nights a year.                                                                  par an.
7   Sales price:  FBu 15/kg.                                                        Prix de vente:  15 FBu le kg.
_/  Captain plus 5 crew members:  Captain - FBu 100/night;                 /  Capitaine plus S membres d'equipage - capitaine:  100 FSu
crew FBu 35/night plus rations equalling  15% of catch.                        par nuit;eqliipage:  35 FBu per nuit, plus rations égalant
15% des prises.
4/  FBu 30/t, 8 L per night.                                                    4/  FBu 50/L, 8 L par nuit.
5   FBu 20/L; 8 L per night.                                                    5/  FBu 20/L; 8 L par nuit.
i/  15%q of investment cost of FBu 30,000 (see table 1).                       f/  15% du coût d'investissement de 30.000 FBu (voir tableau 1).
7/   Bo 1,010  per huil  per year.                                              7/  1.000 FBu par coque par an.
fi  4% of cost of net per annum.                                                §7  4% du coût du filet par an.
9   100 F per night.                                                            j   100 F par nuit.                                                                          *N
0/  This does not incloide capital replacement custs: motors and                0   Non compris les frais de replacement de l'equipement; moteurs et filets                  `
nets shoiuld last about t years; metal huols abouit 10 years,                   devraient durer 3 ans, coques métalliques environ 10 ans, lampes 3 ans;
lamps 3 years; other material replacement included in annual                   remplacement d'autre matériel compris dans coûts annuels.                                   N
costs.                                                                    l    Hypotheses:  le bateaui ne fonctionnait pas avant le projet.                              e s
10   Assumptions:  Unit not operating before development.                                                                                                                      o
Januiarv 26, 107(6                                                             le 26 Ianvierl9l6



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Artisanal Fishing Unit                                                                Modèle - Unité de  Pêche Artisanale
Center Trimaran - Metal Hulls                                                         Trimaran rattaché au centre - coques métalliques
Cash Flow                                                                                       Cash Flow
(FBu'OOO)                                                                                    (milliers de FBu)
--------------------------------------Year/Année----------------------------------
1        2         3        4         5         6        7         8         9        10
Sources of Funds                                                                                                                               Origine des fonds
Sales                                      2?5.0    300.0    375.0    375.0    375.0    375.0    375.0    375.0    375.0    375.0            Ventes
Development loan j                          189.0      -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -       Prêt au développement J
Down payment                                 10.0       -                       -        -         -             -         -         -       Participation des pêcheurs
Total Sources                              424.o    500.0    375.0    375.0    375.0    375.0    375.0    375.0    375.0    375.0            Total des fonds disponibles
Uses of Funds                                                                                                                                  Emploi des fonds
Tnvestment costs                           199.0       -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -        -        Coûts d'investissement
Operating costs                            201.9    213.0    224.2    224.2    224.2    224.2    224.2    224.2    224.2    224.2            Coûts d'exploitation
Capital replacement J                         -        -         -       27.6       -        62.1     27.6       -         -       27.6      Remplacement du capital 3/
Interest and loan payments                  13 l.9    59.6      59.6     59.6      59.6       -        -         -         -        -        Remboursement du prêt J
Total Uses                                 4 19. 7    272.6    283.8    51l.4    285.8    2g6 1    251.8    224.2    224.2    251.8          Total des fo:nds employés
Annual Cash Surplus/(Deficit)                 4,3     27.4      91.2      63.6     91.2    J         123.2    150.8    150.8    123.2        Excédent/(déficit) annuel de trésor
1/  Investment costs minus initial stock of spare parts and fisherman's                1/  CoÛts d'investissement moins stock initial de pieces de rechange moins
participation.                                                                         participation des pêcheurs.
2/  5% of investment cost.                                                             2/ 5% du coût d'investissement.
3/  Replacement of lamps in years 4, 7 and 10 and motor and net in year 6;             3/ Les lampes sont remplacée aux années 4, 7 et 10 et le filet, année 6;
15% mark-up for costs.                                                                 augmentation de 15% des coûts.
4/  Loan for 5 years, 10 annual repayments, 105% interest, 1 year grace. 4 years   4/ Prit pour une durée de 5 ans à 10% remboursé en 10 paiements
repayment period.                                                                      anieuels;   1 année de grâce, période de remboursement de 4 ans. a
january 26, 1976                                                                       le 26 janvier 1976



B URUNDI
FIShERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                       PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Artisanal Fishing Unit                                                                      Modèle - Unité de Pêche Artisanale
Center Trimaran - Wooden Hulla                                                              Trimaran rattaché au centre avec - coques en bois
Cash Flow                                                                                               Cash Flow
(FBu 000)                                                                                            (milliers  de FBu)
-------------------------------------- -Year/Année -------------------------
1         2           3          4          5         6          7          8          9          10
Sources of Funds                                                                                                                                                            Origine des fonds
Sales                                                    225        300         375       375        375        375        375        375       375        375           Ventes
Development loan 1/                                      141         -           -          -         -          -          -          -          -         -             Prat au développement
Down payment                                                7        -          -                    -          -           -          -          -         -             Participation ptcheur
Total Sources                                            373        300         375        375       375        375        375        375       375        375            Total des fonds disponibles
Uses of Funds                                                                                                                                                               Emploi des fonds
Investment costs                                         148         -           -          -         -          -          -          -         -          -            Coûts d'investissement
Operating costs                                          202        213         224        224       224        224        224        224       224        224           Coûts d'exploitation
Capital replacement                                       -          -           -          82         -         62        117         28        -          54           Remplacement du capital
Loan repayment 2/                                         25         57          57        43         _          _          _          _         _          _            Remboursement du prt  2/
Total Uses                                               375        270         281       349        224        aa         341        252       224        278           Total des fonds employés
Annual Cash Surplus/(Deficit)                      X30                           94                   151                  _34       123        151         97            Excédent (déficit) annuel de trésor
1/  Investment and operating costs the same as for trimaran with metal hulls (Table 1)                      1/  Coata d'investissement et d'exploitation  identiques aux trimarans à coque
except that substitution  if wooden for metal hulls would reduce total investment                           métallique  (tableau 1). La substitution de coque en bois reduit les coOts
costs to FBu 148,000 plus stock of spare parts.                                                             d'.Investissements à FBu 148.000, plus les pieces de rechange.
2/  Loan for 3 years, 107. interest, 3-year repayment period   8 months grace.                              2/  Prêt sur 3 ans à 10%, remboursé sur 3 ans dont une p6riode de gr6ee de 8  ol1a.
Janliary 26, 1976                                                                                          le 26 janvier 1976
e



BURUNDI                                                   ~NXANX 
BURUNDI                                                                         /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table/Tableatu 5
FISBERIES DEVELOPHENT PROJECT                                                           PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Artîsanal Fishing Unit                                                          Modèle - Unité de Pêche Artisanale
Unattached Catamaran 1/                                                                     Catamaran independent 1/
Sales and OperatinR Expenses                                                           Ventes et frais de fonctionnement
(FBu'000)                                                                               (nilliers de FBu)
Before Development/    -----------------------------------Y Year/Année---------------_____________________
A-antleprojet             1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8          9         10
Sales                                                                                                                                                                              Ventes
Fresh fish 2/ - catch (tons)                              6                 10       12        15        15        15        15        15        15         15         15        Poisson frais 2/ - production (tonnes)
value 3/                               72                120      144       180       180       L80       180       180        180       180        180                            - valeur 3/
Operating Costs                                                                                                                                                                    Frais de fonctionnement
Wages and salaries 3/                                    28                 40       42        46        46        46        46        46        46         46         46        Salaires  3/
Kerosene for lamps 4/                                    24                 32       32        32        32        32        32        32        32         32         32        Petrole pour lampes 4/
Lanp parts 5/                                            15                 20       20        20        20        20        20        20        20         20         20        Pieces de rechange lampes 5/
Other materials                                           4                  4        4         4         4         4         4         4         4          4          4        Autres matériaux
Total Operating Costs                                    71                 96       98       102       102       102       102       102       102        102        102        Total frais de fonctionnement
Capital Replacement t/                                                                                                                                                             Replacement du capital 6/
llu11s                                                   -                  36       -         -         36        -         -         36        -          -          36        Coques
Net                                                      -                  -        20        -         _    -              -         20         -         -          -         Senne
Lamps                                                   -                   24       -         -         24        -         -         24        -                     24        Lampes
Total Capital Replacement                               _                   60       20        -         60                  -         80         -        _           60        Coûts de remplacement du capital total
Net Revenue                                               1                (36)      26        78        18        78        78       (2)         78        78         18        Revenu  net
1/  Assunption:  Wooden hulled catamaran., operating before development with pour enuipment; sells fish               1/  Hypothèse:  catamaran en bois opérant avec un matériel inadequat avant le projet; le poisson est
at beach markets; fishes 150 nights a year before development, 200 nights a year thereafter.                          vendu sur les plages; pêche 150 nuits par an avant le projet, et 200 nuits par la suite.
2/  Assumes average price of FBu 12/kg; this takes account of l-.es due to spoilage or fish surpli..es    2/ Hypothèse de prix moyeu à FBu 12/kg; ceci tient compte des pertes does aux déchets et des surplus
at narkets.                                                                                                           sur les marchés.
3/  Captai. plus 3 crew:  Captain 50 FBu/night; crew FBu 30 FRn plus rations e1ualliu,g 10/ of the                    3/ Capitaine et équipage de 3 personnes; capitaine gagne FBu 50/nuit, et équipage FBu 30/nuit et
catch,                                                                                                                compensation en nature Jqviva1ant  à 10% des prises.
4/  FBu 20/1; 8 l pet nighti.                                                                                         4/ FBu 20/1; 8 1 par nuit.
5/  FRu 100 per night.                                                                                                5/ FBu 100 par nuit.
6/  See Tables 1 and 2; net 6 x 6 n2 at 20,000 FBu; other cents asme as for trimaran.                                 6/ Voir tableaux 1 et 2; filet de 6 x 6 m2 à FBu 20,000; autres cots identiques au trimaran.
.Tanuarv 6, 1976                                                                                                     Le '6  vInvier 1:)7(



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                          PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Catamaran Purse Seine Unit                                             Modèle - Unité de Pêche Catamaran avec Senne Tournapte
Investment Costs                                                                      Coûts d'Investissement
(FBu'000)                                                                            (milliers de FBu)
Foreign        Foreign
Unit/       Unit Cost/       Total Units/    Total Cost/    Exchange/         Exchange/
Unité      Coût Unitaire    Total Unités    Coût Total          Devises        Devises
Fishing Unit 1/                                                                                                             Unité de Pêche 1/
Boat and motors 2/        Unit/Unite       1,200.0             1             1,200.0          950.0           80          Bateau et moteurs 2/
Net                       Net/Seine          450.0             1               450.0          360.0           80          Seine
Echo sounder              No./Nombre           50.0            1                 50.a          50.0          100          Sondeur  acoustinaie
Lamps 3/                  No./Nombre            8.0            6                48.0           48.0          100          Lampes 3/
Submersible lamps 3/    No./Nombre            100.0            1               100.0          100.0          100          Lampes submersibles 3/
Light boats               No./Nombre           50.0            3               150.0          120.0           80          Porte lampes
Other equipment           Set/Groupe           52.0            1                52.0           36.4           70          Autres équip.uemte
Spare parts               Set/Groupe         450.0             1               450.0          315.0           70          Pieces de rechange
Total Cost                                                                   2,500.0        1,979.4           79          Coat total
1/  Artisanal purse seining unit for each fishing center to stabilize             1/  Unité de pgche artisanale à la senne tournante prevue pour chaque
production and upgrade fishing technicues.                                        centre de pêche afin de stabiliser la production et d'améliorer les
technicues de pêche.
2/  Motor FBu 400,000.                                                            2/  Moteur FBu 400.000.
3/  Two units regular lamps and one unit submersible lamps to compare             3/  Deux unités de lampes standards  et une unitê de lampes submersiblas
capacity of attraction.                                                           pour comparer le pouvoir d'attraction.
Jtanuary 26, 1976                                                                 le 26 janvier 1976



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                              PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Catamaran Purse Seine Unit                                  Modèle - Unité de Pêche Catamaran avec Senna Tournante
Sales and Operating Expenses                                               Ventes et frais de fonctionnement
(FBu'000)                                                                 (milliers de FBu)
--------Year/Année-------
1      2       3-15
SALES                                                                              VENTES
Fresh fish (tons) - Ndagala                         85    102       102          Poisson frais (tonnes) - Ndagala
- Predators                      15      18      18                                    - Voraces
Value:             - Ndagala 1/                  1,275  1,530   1,530            Valeur:                   - Ndagala 1/
- Predators 2/                  450    540      540                                    - Voraces 2/
Total Value                                      1,725  2,070   2,070            Valeur total.
OPERATING COSTS                                                                    FRAIS DE FONCTIONNEMENT
Wages and salaries 3/                              402    416      416           Salaires
Fuel 4/                                            180    180       180          Essence
Kerosene for lamps 5/                              120    120       120          Petrole pour lampes
Spare parts - motor                                 35      35      35           Pieces de rechange - moteur
Spare parts - lamp                                  40      40      40           Pieces de rechange - lampe
Maintenance - boat                                  40      40      40           Entretien - bateau
Maintenance - net                                    25     25       25          Entretien - senne
Miscellaneous - other materials                      15     15       15          Divers - autres matériaux
Total Operating Costs                              857    871       871          Frais de fonctionnement totaux
Net Operating Revenue                              868  1  99   1 199            Revenu net d'exploitation
1/  15 FBu/kg.                                                1/  FBu 15/kg.
2/  30 FBu/kg                                                 2/  FBu 30/kg.
3/  Captain at 250 FBu/night; 15 crew at 70 FBu/night         3/  Capitaine à FBu 250/nuit;  équipage de 15 hommes à FBu 70/nuit, plus
plus rations equalling 5% of catch.                           rations équivalant   à 5% des prises totales.
4/  24 1/night @ FBu 30/1.                                    4/  24 1/nuit à FBu 30/litre.
P/  24 l/night @ FBu 20/1.                                    5/  24 1/nuit à FBu 20/litre.
January 26, 1976                                              le 26 janvier 1976



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                    PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Catamaran Purse Seine Unit                                       Modèle - Unité de Pêche Catamaran avec Senne Tournante
Cash Flow                                                                        Cash Flow
(FBu'000)                                                                      (milliers de FBu)
-   ----------------------------Year/Année-----------------------------
1      2       3      4       5       6      7       8      9       10
Sources of Funds                                                                                                            Origine des fonds
Sales                                    1,725  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070             Ventes
Development loan I/                      2,050    -        -                                                    - -  -  -  -  -  -  Prét au développement
Total Sources                             ,70   2,070   2,070 2,0L7   2,070  2,070                 2,070 2,0702,070       Total des fonds disponibles
Uses of Funds                                                                                                               Emploi des fonds
Investment costs                         2,500    -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -         Coûts d'investissement
Operating costs                            868  1,199  1,199  1,199  1,199  1,199  1,199  1,199  1,199  1,199             Frais de fonctionnement
Capital replacement 2/                     -       -      -       200    -       800    200    -        -       200       Renouvellement du capital
Interest and loan repayment 3/             312    312    312    312    312    312    312    312    312    312            Inter8ts et resoursemunt du prgt
Total Uses                               3,680  1,511  1,511  1,711  1,511  2,311  1,711  1.511  1,511  1,711             Total des fonds employés
Annual Cash Surplus/Deficit                 95    559    559    359    559  (241)    359    559    559    359             Excédent (déficit) annuel de trésorerie
1/  Investment costs less stock of spare parts.                                         l   Coûts d'investissement moins stock de pièces de rechange.
2/  Life of boats 10 years, motor and net 5 years, lamps 3 years, other                      Durée de vie des bateaux, 10 ans; des moteurs et filets 5 ans;
equipment 3 years.                                                                       lampes, 3 ans, autres équipements 3 ans,
3/  Loan at 8 1/2 interest, 10 year repayment period.                                    3/ Prêt à 8 1/2Z, remboursé sur 10 ans.
.January 26, 1976                                                                        le 26 janvier 1976



BURRUNDI
F IHEOROES DEVELOFMENT PROJECT/                                                                 PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PFCHE
Fishbeies MHteials and ERolpmenkt                                                                 Mrtéraexaeteqnipements de Pache
Bnvestment Costs                                                                               Coûts é'innosttssemest
(FEu 000)                                                                                      (eilliEet  de FBu)
YFar 1/Année O    YTar 2/Année 2    Y'en  3/Année 3    Yent 4/Année 4    Yest 5/Année 5    Total Yeta. 1-5/Total Ann6ta  1-5    Foreliga E-hûege
unli/      lFuit Coa/        Bnlis/    Cost/   Unlis/    Colt/  UBtt/    Cost/   Units/   CBsr/   Unlta/    Cost/                         Units/       CBst/                   Dei-
Unté    Cat unitaire         Unités    Coût    Bnités    BoUt    Dallés    Coût    Ii tée           CoGt     Unités    Cenut              BUaitée        Cot                       R
M4TERIALS AND EBUIPHENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MATERIAUX ET EQUIPEMENTS
Fishermen Credit 1/                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Crédit aux eêalears
BEate - metal                    Hul./1oona            35          205      7 1.755    165      5,775      226       7,910        63      2,205      -         _                 659          23,065                     50            Bateane- métal
Baets -  and                     Duli/.nonne           1H           75      1,3501      48        H64       66       1,18B        18        324      -         _                 207           3,726                     10            Bateaux - bais
Bnset  - fib-eglass              Huit/nonne            25           -         -         12        300       IE          450       78      10950    114       2,850 4/            222           5,550                     60            Batesme - fibre de nette
Nets                             Nq/nombre             25          100      2,500       E0      2,000      110       2,750        30        750      -         -                 320           B,D00                     gD            Sennes
Lamps                            No/nombre              8          300      2,400      240      1,920      330       2 640,       90        720      -         -                 960           7,680                   100             Lampes
MHtons                           No/nombr              30          100      3,000       80      2,400      110       3,30H.       30        900      -         -                 320           9,600                   100             Mateurs
Other eoutiprent                 Sea/gtnuPr           5I           100      1,500       80      1,200      110       1,650        30        450      -         -                 320          4,80E                      20            AnIme  ertpemeets
nate Fasrts                      Sot/gîronpe          25           100     2_500        80      2,000      110       2,750        30        750      -       -                   32E0         B000                      10             PiEees de rechange
Sob-Total                                                                  20,425              16,459               22.638               8,O49              2,850                            70E421                                    Ttala  partiE1
Salms nnRtrm 2/                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Femmes a*u pchenrs
Nets                                                   25          100      2,500       50      1,250       50       1,250        -         -       200      5,000               400          10,000                     80            S-.e.
Lampe                                                   8          300      2.400      150      1,200      390       3.120      600      4,800    390        3,120             1,830          14,640                   100             Lampes
Motars                                                 30           -         -         50      1,500       50       0,SEU        5H     1,SHH      SE       1 500               200           6H000                    10D            Motente
Othe- rnipmeet                                        15          100      1,500       50        750       50         /50        50        750      5o        750               300           4,500                     20            Antres sraipetents
spara parts                                           25           100      2 500      130      3.250      150       3.750       130     3,250    160       4.000                670         16i750                    100             PiFEes de re-hamgm
Enb-T6 tal                                                                  8,900               7,950               10.370              10,300             14.370                            51890                                     Tatal partel1
RDS Catamaran Fur-e  Ualases ./                                                                                                                                                                                                           unités d  r4kbT  à nenne tSpmm.mte- SR   3/
Boat and motet                   Set/groupe        1,350            -         -          1      1,350        1       1,350         2    , 2,700       1      1,350                 5           6,750                     80             Hateanet entent
Nec                              No/nombr-           450            -         -          O        450         1        450         2        900       1        450                 5           2,250                     EH            S-e-n
8qnipt. Iamps h ecln soun-eh  -   et/grau.e          250            -         -          O        250         1         250        2        500       1        250                 5           1,250                    100            Enipe-ents et cotéenn  canne
Sp-re p-aLs                      Set/gtotpe          4 450          -                             400         1        45E         2        9HE       I        450                 3           2.250                     75            PiEees de tahbange
sub-rotal                                   _                                                                        2.s                2 500  9Q0           2.500                           12.500                                    Total patitel
Total  2nue-înt32 Cests                                                                        26 909               35 50E              23 34                                               134 E11                                    TtalaI Jn  Rn iBs   îtsntiatBe..ent
1/  see Telle                                                                                                                0/  Boti  tableu  1O
2/  For una-t itbed  u       .nls and potabaso uf equlp-nnt hy nnttcé  nIn  -                                               2/  PFac  Bee acïtda indépmandaît  et -hâtc  d'eqaipe_nt p-r Ses I nnEca ra           bstt.ch&
3/  See Table 6                                                                                                              3 'Voei t.abl.an  6                                                                                                                                          -
4/  Inoluéeel replatemant halls for ye.r 6, to bt proéudn4d hy RDS4/  Ont/na reeploeememt de la e0qne seme 6, 2                                                                          1.           SRoarge de    SD.
Jana'rry 26. 197L                                                                                                            le 2' jxnnitu 1 7(



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                          PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMOENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Fishing Center                                                                                    Modale - Centre de Pêche
Investment Costs                                                                                        Cofts C Investissat
(FBu'000)                                                                                             (millierede FBu)
Unsit/       Unit Cost/         Total Unitr/       Total Coit/    Foreign Exchange/          Foreign ExchaLnga/
Unité      Cotn unitaire        Total "Tnittg       Coût total       Coft en devises         Codt en devises
INVFqMF.NTCO 1T                                                                                                                                              COUTS D' DIVSTISS moeT
TNVPSvTMPNT fORT s                                                                                                                                                Bitiments 
Buildings
Offices                      i                                                                                                                                 f  Bureaux
Storage for equipment         I                                                                                                                                   Magasins pour equipement
Depot for sales oE materiaih          Center/       2500                    1               2500                 625.                   25                    .  Depot pour ventes de materiaux
Fish processing plant                 centre                                                                                                                   |  Usine de poisson
Housing for management       J                                                                                                                                    Logement pour personnel de gestion
Machinerv and E-linswnt                                                                                                                                           Materiaux et equipments
Brining tanks  -              i                                                                                                                                   Reservoir de salaison
Scales                                                                                                                                                            Balances
Drying racks and covera               Center/         750                   1                750                 675                    90                        Sechoirs et couvertures
Smoking trays                         centre                                                                                                                  ,   Claies pour fuaoirs
Water pump                                                                                                                                                        Pompe
Sealing machine                                                                                                                                                   Machine a sceller
Generator                                                                                                                                                         Groupe electrogène
Miscellaneous                                                                                                                                                     Divers
Mechanical dryer                      No./Nombre    635                     l                635                 572                    90                        Sechoir mecariquê
Radio-Telephone                       No./Nombre    100                                      100                  80                    80                        Badio-Têléphome
Sub-total                                                                                 1,485                1,327                    89                        Total partiel
Vehicles                                                                                                                                                          Véhicules
Pick-up truck                         No./Nombre    555                     l               550                  495                    90                        Fourgonnette
Motorcycle                            No./Nombre       50                   1                50                   45                    90                        Moto
Sub-total                                                                                  600                   540                    90                        Total partiel
Reforestation Tract                                         30                    5              150                  -                       -                   Reboisement
Total Teveaeent rose a                                                                                         2,492                    53                        Coûits d'investissement totaux            >
1/  Cost for one center, based on experience with FAO/UNDP centres at Kitaza and                  1/  Couts pour un centre, d'apres les coûts des centres FAO/PNUD à Kitaza et Magara;
Magara; two new centers w*uld be established, and three centers would be                          on estime que deux nouveaux centres seraient crees, et trois centres agrandis.
expanded.                                                                                                                                                                                               c
January 26, 1976                                                                                  le 26 janvier 1976



ANNEX/ANNEXE 9
Table/Tableau 11
BURDNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PRDJECT                                  PROJET-DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Mndel - Fi1hlnm -C _tez                                          iodèle - Centre de Pêche
Sales and Operating Exvoesea                                    Ventes et fraie des fonctionnement
Sales and) OP ratinRExpecsest(milliers de FBu)
(FBu'OOO)  ~      - ----- Year/Année----
1        2        3-10
SALES                                                            VENTS
Fresh Fish - Predators 1/    -           498      599            Poisson frais - voraces 1/
Fresh Fish - Ndagala 2/      1,275    1,862    2,319             Poisson frais - ndagala 2
Smoked Ndagala 3/           13,168   19.225   23.947             Ndagala fumé 3/
Total Sales              14.443   21.585   26,865             Ventes totales
OPERATING EXPENSES                                               COUTS D'EXPLOITATION
Fish Purchases                                                   Achats de poisson
Artisanal Units              9,563   12,750   15,937             Unités artisanales
Purse Seine Units-                                               Uniti à senne tournante - ndagala
Ndagala                    -       1.212    1,454
Total Ndagala             9.563   1396    17.391              Ndagala total
Predators                     -          428      513            Voraces
Total Purchases           9,563   14.390   17,904             Achats totales
Wages and Salaries                                               Salaires et traitement
Center Manager                 150       150      150            Gerant du centre
Foreman                        100       100      100            Contremaitre du centre
Accountant/Clerk                90        90       90            Comptable/dactylo
Driver/Mechanic                 70        70        70           Chauffeur/mecanicien
Permanent Labor 4/             195       195      195            Ouvriers permanents 4/
Temporary Labor 5/             160       160      160            Ouvriers temporaires 5/
Sub-total                   765       765      765            Total partiel
Haterials                                                        Materiaux
Sait 6/                        401       586      730            Sel 6/
Wood 7/                         29        42        52           Bois 7/
Packaging Materials 8/         620       905    1.127            Emballage C/
Sub-total                 1.050    1,533    1,909             Total partiel
Vehicle & E pm;nt                                                Frais de fonctionnement - vihicules et éguipments
Operating Cost q_
Vehicle Operation              180       180       180           Fonctionnement véhicule
Other Equipment and                                              Autres équipmentset entretien bâtiments
Bldg. Maintenance           150       150      150
Sub-total                   330       330       330           Total partiel
Contingencies                      500      500       500        Imprevus
Total Operating Costs          12,208   17,518   21,408          Total - frais de fonctionnement
Net Operating Revenue           2,235    4,067    5,457          Revenu net d'exploitation
1/ 35 FBu/kg.                                                 1/  35 FBu/kg.
2/ 20 FBu/kg.                                                 2/  20 FBu/kg.
3| 85 FBu/kg; 1 kg fresh fish - .265 dried, smoked fish.   3/  85 FBu/kg; 1 kg poisson frais = .265 poisson sîché et fumé.
4/ 13 workers at 60 FBu/day.                                  4/  13 ouvriers à 60 FBu/jour.
5/ 20 workers at 40 FBu/day.                                  5/  20 ouvriers à 40 FBu/jour.
6/ 14 FBu/kg; 1:20::salt:fresh fish.                          6/  14 FEu/kg; 1:20 :: sel: poisson frais
7/ 100 FBu/stere; 1 stere per oven.                           7/  100 FBu/stere: 1 stere par four.
81 4 FBu/kg smoked fish plus fish boxes.                      8/  4 FBu/kg poisson fumé, plus boites.
91 30% of investment cost for vehicles, 20% for mechanical 9/  30% des coûts d'investissement de véhicules, 20% pour
driver.                                                         sechoîr mecanique.
.anuary 26, 1976                                               le 26 janvier 1976



BITRItNDI
FISHERIES DEVLLOPMENT PROJECT                                                                    PROJECT DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Fishing Center                                                                              Modèle - Centre de Pêche
Cash Flow                                                                                           Cash Flow
(Ffu' 000)                                                                                     (,Iillrs  '.s pu-----------
-- - - -- - - -    Year/Annee -------------------------------------------------
SOURCE OF FUNDS                         1          2         3          4          5          6          7          8          9        10        ORtGINE DES FONDS
Sales                           14443      21585      26865      26865      26865      26865      26865     26865      26865      26865           Ventes
Development Loan                 4735        _          -          _          -          -          -          -         -          -             Pretau développement
Total Sources              19178      21585      26865     26865      26865      26865      26865      26865      26865      26865       ,  Total'fonds disponiblea
USE OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                      EMPLOI DES FONDS
Investment Costs                 4735        -          -          -          -          -                     -         -          -             Colte d'inveutisaent
Operating Costs                 12208      17518      21408      21408      21408      21408      21408     21408      21408      21408           Coûts d'exploitation
Capital Replacement          1/   -           -         -          -          600       1485        -          -         600        -             Remplacement du capital
Interest and Loan Repayment       771        771        771        771        771        771        771       771        771        771           Int6rêts et rembour«eaunt du prêt
Total uses                 17714      18289     22179      22179      22779      23664      22179      2217^      22779      22179          Emploi des fonds total
Annual Cash Surplus/(deficit)          1464       3296      4686       4686       4086       3201       4686       4686     4086         4686     Excédent/(déficit) annuel de trésorerie
1/ Loan at 8-1/2 7. interest, for  10 years.                                          1/  Prit a 8 1/2% intirê, sur 10 ans.
Note: RDS overhead costs not included.
Note:  frais géniraux de la SRD non compris.Ir
January 26, 1976                                                                      le 26 janvier 1976



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                               PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Fishing Station                                                       Modèle - Station de Pêche
Investment Costs                                                            Coûts d'Investisement
(FBu '000)                                Foreign                           (milliers de FBu)
Unit Cost/                    Exchange/
CATEGORY OF INVESTMENT          Unit/  Coût par    Units/   Cost/   Devises         CATEGORIE D'IITVE'STISSEMENT
1/  Unité    Unité      Unités   Coût        %
Buildings and Installations                                                         Batiments et installations
Offices          )                                                             Bureaux
Storage depot   )                                                              Magasins et entrepato.
Hangar           )       station    1,500          1    1,500       25         Hangar
Housing          )                                                             Logements
Sub-Total       1/                                   1,500       25             Total partiel
Machinery and Equipment                                                              Matereaux et équipements
Scales                   set/
Drying racks and covers groupe         500         1      500       80         Claies de 8echage  et couvertures
Miscellaneous              No.                                                 Divers
Radio telephone                        100         1      100       90         Radio - téléphone
Sub-Total                                              600      82             Total partiel
yehicles                                                                            Véhicules
Pick-up                    No          550        1       550       90         Camionnette
Motorcycle                 No           50         1       50       90         Moto
90
Sub-Total                                              600                     Total partiel
Total Investment Costs                                       2,700                   CoGts d'investissement totaux
l/ See Table 10; similar buildings, minus                                      1/ Voir Tableau 10; bâtiments identIques,  
brining and smoking facilities and                                             moins four et équipements pour salage z t
packaging equipuent.                                                           et emballage.                             6I
January 2t, 197b                                                                le 26 janvier 1976



BtUR_lDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     PROJECT DE DEVELOPPE)ENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Fishing Station                                            Modèle - station de pKche
Sales and Operating Expenses                                         Ventes et Frais de Fonctionnement
(PBu' OO)                                                           (milliers de FRu)
- Year/Année -------------
l           ~      ~2_    3-10_
SALES                                                                                       VENTES
Dried ndagala 1/                           8288            11050           13813            Ndagala seché 1/
OPERATING COSTS                                                                             COUTS D'EXPLOITATION
Fish Purchases                             5738              7650            9563           Achats Poisson
Wages and Salaves                                                                           Salaires et traitements
Center manager/foreman                 100              100             10lo                Çerant/Contremaitre du Centre
Accountant/clerk                        80               80              d0                 Comptable/dactylo
Driver                                  60               60              60                 Chauffeur
Perranent labor 2/                      90               90               90                Ouvriers permanents 2/
Tempcrary labor ?/                      64               64              64                 Ouvriers temporaires 3/
Sub-total                        394               394             394                      Total partiel
Materials                                                                                   Matériaux
Packaging naterials 41                  23               31               38                Matériaux d'emballage 4/
Other Operating Costs 5/                                                                    Autres coûts d'exploitation
Vehicle operating costs                180              180             180                Poncticnnement véhicules
Building and plant maintenance          25               25              25                Entretien bâtiments et installations
Sub-total                        205               205             205                      Total partiel
Contingencies                          250              250             250                lprevus
Total Operating Costs                 6610             8530           10450                 Coûts d'exploitation total
Net Operating Revenue                 1678             2520            3363                 Revenu net de 1'«PlOitatiOn
1/  at 65 FBu/kg                                                                            1/  à FBu 65/kg.                                         Î 
/  6 vorkers at 60 FBu/day.                                                                 2/  6 ouvriers à FBu 60/jour.
3/  8 workers at 40 FBu/day.                                                                B   8 ouvriers à PBu 40/jour.
4/  Jute bags.                                                                               /  Sacs de Jute.                                      p
5/  See table ll for parameters.                                                            51  Voir tableau il pour hypothèses.
December 17, 1975                                                                           le 17 décembre 1975



FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                   PROJECT DE DEVELOPPENENT DE LA PECHE
Model - Fishing Station                                                                              Modèle - Station de Peche
Cash Flow                                                                                             Cash Flow
(FBu'000)                                                    ,                                   C±llier8 de PBu)
------------- ------------------------- Year Annee -----------
1         2           3         4           5          6          7          8          9         10
SOURCES OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                     ORIGINE DES FONDS
Sales                            8288       11050      13813      13813      13B13      13813      13813      13813       13813      13813      Ventea
Development Loan                 2700         -          -           -          -          -          -          -          -          -        prgt au développement
Total Sources             1C988       11050       13813      13813      13813      13813      13813      13813      13813      13813      Total des fonds disponibles
USES OF FUNDS                                                                                                                                        EHFLOI DES FONDS
investment Costs                 2700         -          -          -          -          -          -           -          -          -       coets d'investssament.
Operating Co0tS                  6610        8530      10450      10450      10450      10450      10450      10450       10450      10450     cotke dlexploitation
Capital Replacement                -          -          -          -          600        600         -          -          600        -       Remplacement du capital
Loan Repayrent 1/                 412         4]2        412        412        412        412         412        412        412        412     Remboursement du prêt ai
Total Uses                 9722        8942       10862      10862      11462      11462      10862      10862      11462      10450      Emploi des fonds. total
NET CASH SURPLUS/(deficIL)            1266        2108       2951       2951        2351       2351       2951       2951       2351       2951    Excédent/(deficit) annuel de trésorerie           S
I/  Loan ae  R lt2 interest, for 10 yesrs.                                             y   Prêt à 8 112%, sur 10 tasa.
Jan,nary 2s, lQ76                                                                      le 26 janvier 1976



BURUNDI
FISIIERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                        PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Fishing Centers and Stations                                                           Centres et Stations de Pcbhe
Suamaary of Investment Costs                                                          Etat des Coûts d'Investissement
(FBu'000)                                                                          (Milliers de FBu)
~ Foreign`
--------- Year/Année ---------------    Total Years/ Exchange/
1         2          3          4          5    Total Annees Devises
INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                            1 - 5                 COUTS DINLVSTISSEMENT
FiChing r.-n..s l/                                                                                                Centres de peche-l/
Buildings                       2500       2500       2500         -          -        7500       25              Bnatiments
Machinery and Equipment          1485      1485       1485          -         -        4455       82              Matériaux et équipements
Vehicles                         600        600        600         -          -        1800       90              Véhicules
Reforestation                    150        150        150         -          -         450        -              Reboisement
Workingcapital   2/             3050       3050       3050         -          -        9150       10              Fonds de roujeaent  2/
Suib-total                 7785       7785       7785                           23355                             Total partiel
Fishing Stations  3/                                                                                              Stations de peche
Buildings                       1500       1500       3000       1500         -        7500       25              Batiments
Machinery and Equipment          600        600       1200        600         -        3000       82              Matériaux et équipements
Vehicle                          600        600       1200        600         -        3000       90              Véhicules
Working Capital  4/             1100       1100       2200       1100          -       5500        5              Fonds de roulement ./
Sub-total                  3800       3800       7600       3800                 19000                           Total partiel
Total Investment Costs               11585      11585      15385       3800                42355                  Co«ts d'investissement totaux
l/ See Table 10, assumes construiction of two new centers, and         j   Voir tableau 10; dans l'hypothèse de la construction de deux centres
expansion of three existing centers at total cost equal to               nouveaux et l'expansion de trois centres existants à un coût equivalant                     f 
one new center.                                                          à un autre.                                                                                 z 1
2/ Equivalent to first three months operating costs.                    2/  Equivalant aux frais d'exploitation pendant lea premiers trois mois.
3/ See Table 13; assumes construction of five new stations.            3/  Voir tableau 13; dans l'hypothèse de la construction de cinq nouvelles atttions.
4/ Equivalent to the first two months operating costs.                  4/  Equivalant aux coats d'exploitation pendant les premiers deux wois.
'anuarv P(, 1Q76                                                       le 26 janvier 1976



BURUNDI
FIShERIES DEVELPMENT PROJECT                                                                       PROJECT DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Fish Msrketirg                                                                           Cossercialisation des produits de la p$che
Investment Costs                                                                                   Coûts d'Investissements
(FBu' 000)                                                                                         (milliers de FBu)
Year l/Annèe1        Year 2/Année 2        Year 3/Année 3            1 _ 5             Foreign Ex-
Unit/      Unit Cost/ Units/    Cost/    Units/    Cost/           Units/    Cc-st/      Units/   LEst/         change/Devises
Unite   Coût unirnlreUnites    Cou2t        Unites    co,t         Unités    Coet        Unités   Cott               %CAEGORIE D'INVESTISSEMENT
INVESTMENT CATEGORY
Buil6ings and Installations                                                                                                                                                   Bâtiments et Installations
Wholesale depot                  No/Nbre        500         1         500         -          -          -          -           1         500          25                Depôt de ventes au gros
Cold Store  1/                   No/Nbre        400            -         -           _                            400         1         400           35                Depôt frigorifique UJ
Secondary depots  1/             No/Nbre        250         -         _          -           -          4        1000         4        1000           25                DepOts secondaires 1/
Sub-total                                                        500                                      _400                    1900                                Total partiel
Equipment                                                                                                                                                                     EcuiPesenta 1/
Refrigeration  -nit              Unit/Unite   625           -          -          _          _          1         52-5                   625                            Unité de refrigeration
Plate freeoer                    Unit/Unite   785           -          -          -          -          I         785                    785                            Congêlation
Scales and other equipment    Set/roupa    160              _          _         _           _          1         160                    160                            Balances
Sub-total                                                                                                  1570                   1570                                Total partiel
Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                     Véhicules
2 - ton tru-k                    No/Nbre        700         1         700        -                      -         -           1         700                             Cmion de 2 tonnes
3 - ton truck                    No/Nbre        800         -          -          I         800         1        800          2        1600                             Camion de 3 tonnes
Pick-up truck                    No/Nbre        550         1         550         1         550         1        550          3         1650                            Fourgeonette
Boat                             No/Nbre       1000         1        1000         -          --                  -            1         1000                            Blteau
Sub-total                                                       2250                 1350                 1350                    4950                               Total partiel
Working Capital  2/                                                                                                                                                          Fonds de Rouleront ,/
Market promotion                    -            -          -        2750         -         1320        -        -             -       4070                            Prosotion
Cold Store operation 3/             -            -          -          -          -          -          -       4194          -        4t94                            Operation dee depôt frigorifique
Other operating csts- 4/            -            -          -         112         -          _          _        -             _         112                           Divers 4/
Sub-total                                                       2862                  1320                4194                    8376                               Total partiel
Total Investment Costs                                                     5612                  2670                8514                   16796                            Coûts totaux d'investissement
1/  Detailed plans to be submitted for TDA  reviev  prior to construction or installation.                           1/  Des plans détaillés  devraient être soumis à l'IDA avant construction ou installation.
2/  Working capital for R0S r.arketing operation, equal to 7 monthss operating                                       2/  Fonds de roulement pour la comerclalisation  equivalant à 2 mois de frais d'exploitation,                    
coats excluding salaries.                                                                                            salaires exclus.
3/  2 months operating costs.                                                                                         /  2 mois de coôts d'exploitation.
4/  2 months operation for vehicles.                                                                                 4/  2 mois de coûts d'exploitation pour les véhicules.
le 26 Jianvier 1976
,Tanuary ?6, 1976



AXNFXtAXNEXE 9
Table/Tableau 18
RrRgRDI
FIS 81ES DEVEL0PFEKT PROJECT                                                        PROJET  DE DEVEL0PPEKFNT DE LA PECHE
Fish Marketing                                                           Comercialisation des Produite de la Pêche
Sales and Operating Expensee                                                         Ventes et Frais de Fonctionnement
(FBu'000)                      Years/Annees    Foreign Exchange/                   (milliers de FBu)
1-10             Devises
Sales                                                                               Ventes
Sale of 120 tons Nile Perch Fillets
e FBu 150/kg                                18,000.0                50       Ventes de 120 tonnes filets de capitaine à
Sale of 90 tons of Mukeke @ FBu 130/kg          11,700.0                50          FBu 150/kg
Sale of 2 tons mosck salivn 8 FBu 800/kg         1.600.0                50       Ventes de 90 tonne.  U   _     à rou iiuirg
Ventee de 2 tonnes de sau.on dn lac à FEu rC0/g
Total Sales                                 31,300.0                50
______                             Ventes totales
OperatinRg Costs                                                                    Coûts d'Exploitation
Fish purchaae - 124 tons Nile Perch Fillets                                      Achats poisson - 124 tonnes de filets de
e nU 100  1/                                12,400.0                _           capitaine à FBu 100/kgl/
Fish purchase - 120 tons Mukeke                                                  Achats poisson - 120 tonnes du Mukeke à
e FEu 80 2f                                  9,600.0                -           FBu 80/kg 2/
Freezlng and storage                               400.0                40       Congelation et refrigération
Packaging                                        2,000.0                60       Emballage
Tracsport                                          200.0                50       Transport
Maintenance                                        100.0                10       Entretien
Sub-total                                   24,700.0                            Total partiel
Salaries                                                                            Salaires
1 clerk 8 FBu 9,000/mo.                            108.0                -        1 commis à FBu 9,000/mois
9 laborerse 8Fnu 24,000/mo.                        288.0                -        9 ouvriers à FBu 24,000/mois
Sub-total                                      468.0                            Total partiel
Total Operating Costs                       25.168.0                            CoOts d'exploitation totaux
Net Revenue                                         6,132.0                            Revenu net
1/ Nile Perch:  purchases as f illets 120 tons; sold:  frozen fillets  1/  Capitaine acheté comme filets, 120 tonnes; vendus
(100% recovery) and 4 tons sold as mock salmon (502 recovrery).          comme   filets congelés (100% recouvrement); 4 tonnes
Z/ Mukeke - 75% recovery.                                                   comae       saumon du lac (50% recouvrement).
3/ Depreciation should be calculated on 7 yegrs for plate freezer       2/ Kukeke:  75% recouvrement.
and 20 years for cold store.                                          3/  Amortissements devraient être calculés sur base
de 7 ans pour congelateur et 20 ans pour dep8ts
frigorifique.
January 26, l976                                                         le 26 Janvier 1976



BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPW NT PROJECT                                  PROJECT DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Fisheries Extension and Fishermen Training                        Vulgarisation de la Pêche et Formation des Pêcheurs
Investment Costs                                            Coûts d'Investissement
(FBu' 000)                                                  (milliers de FBu)
CATEGORY OF INVESTMENT                                                  Total Years/            CATEGORIE D'INVESTISSEMENT
Year/Année---------                 Annees  Foreign
Fixed Investment                      1       2      3      4       5    1 - 5      Exchange/  Investissements Fixe
Vehicles and Supplies                                                          Devises Z        Véhicules etM%terj&"
Light Vehicle             400       -       -      -       -    400        90                 VEhicules leger
Supplies                  100       -      -       -      -    100        50                 Matériaux
Sub-total                 500                                   500                          Total partiel
Fisheries Extension Staff                                                                       Cadres de Vulgarisation de la Pêche
Superviser (1)            100    100    100    100    100    50()          -              Vulgarisateur de pêche'(l)
F;shing Instructors (10) 500    500    500    500    500   2500            -              Moniteurs de pêche (10)
Sub-total                 600    600    600    600    600   3000                             Total partiel
Vehicle operating Costs              120    120    120    120    120    hnn          60              Frais de fonctionnement, véhicules
Miscellaneous                         50      50     50      50     50    250        25         Divers
Total Investment ,       1270    770    770    770    770   4350                          Investissement total
January_26,1976  le 26 janvier1976  .
January 26, 1976                                                                 le 26 ,janvier 1976                                                ' o



AmANNEx/DcE 9
Table/Tableau 20
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                          PRDJET DE DEVELOPPUEMNT DE LA PECUE
Rexional Developuent Society Eeadguarters                             si., da La Soel         i
Investment Coats                                                      Co6ts d'Investissement
(FBU '000)                                                            (milliers de FBu)
Year 1
Unit/     Coet/  Uimtai  Cost/ Foreign Exc./
Unité     Coet   Unités  Coût        Devises
INVESTMENT CATEGORY                                                             CATEGORIE D'INVESTISSEMENT
Building                        2                                               Bâtiments
Offices  1/                 e2         12     240    3,600         25            Bureaux 1/
Equipment & Furniture   set/groupe  400         1       400                     Natériel et meubles
Sub-total                                          4.000                        Total partiel
Installation                                                                     Installations
Garage Extension            -          -       -        500        30           Garage
Workshop                    -          -       -        500        30           Atelier
Sub-total                                          1.000                        Total partiel
Equipment                                                                        Equipement
Garage                                                  750        80           Garage
Workshop                                                750        90            Atelier
Sub-total                                         1T500                          Total partiel
Vehicles                                                                         Véhicules
Light Vehicle            No/Nbre      400        2      800        90            Véhicule leger
Total Fixed Investment                                   7.300                   Total des Immobilisations
Working Capital  1/                                         790       40         Fonds de Roulement
Total Investment Costs                                   8 090                   Coût total des investissements
1/ 3 months operating costs; see Table 21                                        1/  3 mois de coOts d'exploitation;
voir tableau 21.
.Taniiarv 26, 1976                                                               le 26 janvier 1976



ANNEX/ANNEXE 9
BURUNDI                                      Table/Tableau 21
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                   PROJECT DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECHE
Regional Development Society Headguarters                        Siege de la Société Régionale de Développement
Operating Costs                                                Frais de Fonctionnement
(FBu '000)                                                     (milliers de FBu)
Year/Année------
OPERATING COSTS - HEAIQUARTERS           1        2      3-20                FRAIS DE FONCTIONNEMENT - SIEGE
lages and Salaries                                                        Salaires et Traitements
Manager                           300    300       300                    Gérant
Fisheries Development            250    250        250                    Développement de la peche
l`rocessing                      25C    250        250                    Traitement
Marketing                        250    250        250                    Commercialisation
Administration and Finance       250    250        250                    Administration et finances
Technical Officer                150    150        150                    Technique
Pronurement Officer              150    150        150                    Approvisionnement
Accountant                       150    150        150                    Comptable
Secretary (2)                    150    150        150                    Dactylo (2)
Driver (1)                         75     75        75                    Chauffeur (1)
Subordinate Staff                225    225        225                    Main d'oeuvre
Sub-Total       2,200  2,2ûO    2,200                           Total Partiel
Other Operating Costs                                                     Autres frais de Fonctionnement
1TeTicle operating Costs         240    240        240                    Fonctionnement véhicles
Building maintenance               80     80        80                    Entretien b&timents
Supplies and equipment           100    100        100                    Equipements et matêriels
Garage and workshop              100    100        100                    Garage et atelier
Suib-Total        520    520       520                          Total partiel
'lotal Heedquarters Operating
Costs                      2,720  2,720    2,720                     Siege - Frais de fonctionnement,
OPERATING COSTS - MARKETING WPERATIONS                                       FRAIS DE FONCTIONNEMET - COMMERCIALISATION
Wages and Salaries                                                       Salaires et traitements
Depot managers                   100      lCO       100                  Responsable magasin
Cold Store manager                         -        100                   Responsable unité frigorifigue
Drivers (6)                      140      280       420                   Chauffeurs (6)
Captain                          150      --O       iuû                   Camitaine
Siibordinate Staff               100      1O0       100                   Main d'oeuvre
Sub-Total         Éi2O     580       820                        Total partiel
Ctlber Cperating Costs                                                    Autres frais de fonctionnement
Vehicde operating costs           375     780   1l185                     Fonctionnement, véhicules
Building maintenance               10      10        20                   Entretien, totiments
Boat operation                   100      100       100                   Bàteau
Promotion activities             200      200       200                   Activités de promotion
Sub-Total          85   1,090    1,505                          Total partiel
Total operating costs -
Marketing                   1,125   1,670    2.325                 Frais de fonctionnement. - commercialisation
Total RDS Central Services
Operating Costs             3,845   4,390    5,045                 Services Centraux de la SRD - Frais de fonctionnement
-           -                     Total
January 'a6, 176                                                         le 26 janvier 1976



BURUNII                                                                                                          ATable/aleau 22
FSUUIIUSIE  UDEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                    FROJET UE DkEBLOPPEMENT NU LA PECHE
CusselBRegionNDevelopment AucCinities                                             Acens i pour Be dével-eneene-t de Uc enue ultièue
Invescment Certs                                                                     Ctsdlvsisse
(FBu'û0B)                                                                          (milliers de FBu)
leur l/Anuée N  Beau 2/Année 2   uerx 3/Aunée 3  Yeur 4/Aunée 4   Yeur 5/Aeuéu 5   TBtC1 A-éeu B 1-5    Buelhnge
Unit/     Unit Co-u!    Unie!/  Cent/  unitu/   Cent/  units/   CeUt/  UBits/   Cost/   units/   Cult/  tUits/              Cent/    DNeine
Unité   Coût unjeaire   Ueit-s   Coet   nitér   Coût  UBtés   Cnût  Unie/n   Cutt              nBités   Ceût    Unités     CuIt         %
INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                                                                                   COUTS D'INVESTISSEMENT
Regional Developmeent Stude                                                                                                                                                                        Etude de dfcnl-nueRuuut BRinunal
Coerdinutou                               Mue year      4,700         0.5     2,350    1       4,700    1        4,700                    2.                            I,J; 0 90                Coerdieatene
Caneulanute 1/ -                                        4uPntrinne M.n y  i  74B 1 ,700    z   9,400    1        4,700    -         -        -        -        4       18,800        90          Censutants 1! - eupateién
lencultuecs */ - louai recruitrent        Mue yeau      1,200         3        3,60U    4       4,A00    2       2,400    -         -        -        -        9       10,800        10          Censulants 1, - reoruteneut au burundi
Support services 2                                                             1,000            2.000           *.000    -          -        -                          4.000        25          Beuvices d'appui 2/
S,lu-Total                                                                    11,650           20,900           12,800              -5350                                                        Total parti.1
Regional DcvelvPment Activities 3/                                                                                                                                                                 Autifns pBue le dêvnlueppeent du 1  rgéi2n 3/
Fixed TnvestmenB                                                                                                                                                                                 Investissenesus fines
Aericulcurol development ce-nt                Ne         2,500        -          -      -         -      -         -       2      5,000      1      2,500      3        7,500        25          Centue de déveluppenentggrIcole
De-onutracion faum                           Hu           110         -          -      -         -      ^         -       2        220      2        220     4           440        10          Fe-ne de de-oustratien
Nurucriuu                                     Ha            30        -          -      -         -      S         150    5         150      -        -       10          300        -           Pepinieen
Comnunity binldings                           -            -          -          -      -         -      -         -       -      3,000      -      3,û0D      -        6,000        25         BOti-eets .ceoccunutuOrs
Wutet development                             -            -          -          -       -        -       -        -       -      2,000      -      2,000      -        4,000        25         PFinte d'eau
Vchicles                                      -                 -          -         -       -       _        -        -          3.000      -   -             -        3 000        ûU          Véhiuules
Sub-Total                                                                                         -                150           13.370             7.720              21.240                    Tutal partiel
Oerauing Costu                                                                                                                                                                                     Fueis du fonctionnement
Agricultural inputu 4/                                                           _                _              2,500            5,000             5,000              12,500        20          Fauteurs de produc4ion agricole  /
Wuges and soaures                                                                _                _                _              1,000             1,000               2,000        -           Saîlnres et tr-iteenes
Othur eperetini  onte                                                            -.                                                                 2.000 2.D0          4            20          Autres fes-s de fn..ti.nnenent
Sub-Total                                                                        -                -              2.500            8,000            9,002               18,500                    Total  partiel
Total B1egnnal DeveloFment AcLivitien                                            -                -              2.650           21.370            15.720              39.740                    Total - actions  our le développeenet de lu cggiun
oTeus1 Inveneent Conn                                                              lU 651           20 m 9005i.450                    21 .370           15. 720              85.B90                Total - coûts d' i9ve7tTssement
1/  Tonenlcaonts for regional plunning, noLubly go-ic       --tuce, ex tennion, ond cater decelopeent.                       1/ Ècncnttatnt puce lu plunucatioui  cégi onale, nota.mment agrccultrue, vclgsresaeuuu, et adductions d'eau.
2/  VOh'it In  necretarial nevicen,   filu -epenen, etc.                                                                     2!  VhielI, datylon, fCrie du bhues,  te.
3/  Figucr        indicotive;  nen--  cId peencet a doiL[u  Flac ce IDA fo   pprl p- ta                                      3!  Chifta  ns        9 indicutifn; lu        eu    prén        -  unp                       l'IDA Foot appf pbuti.s
nde-uking th-ee a          e      nu    i      c                                                                             avant de tocmener Cen oti
4/  Seed, celorestation naîcrio,                                                                                                 Semence , metriaux Four reboisement, petits aimaux, inatollations pour eransformtionu nu niveau paysannal
nenelar  i!,  1?76                                                                                                         -e f        - neer 197t



BURUND1
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                          PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECRE
Technical Services                                                        Services Techniques
Investment Costs                                                       Coûts  d'investissement
(FBu'000)                                                              (milliers de FBu)
Foreign Exchange/
---------------- Year/Année--------------   Total Years 1-5/               Devises
1        2        3         4        5      Total Années 1-5
INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                                                           COUTS D'INVESTISSEMENT
Regional Development Society (RDS)                                                                                                         Société régionale de développement (SRD)
Technical Assistance                                                                                                                     Assistance technique
Fisheries development                       4 700      4 700    4 700    4,700    4,700          23,500                  90              Développement de la pêche
Fish processing                             4,700      4,700    4 700    4,700    4,700          23,500                  90              Traitement de la pgche
Marketing                                   4,700      4,700    4,700    4,700    4,700          23,500                  90              Commercialisation
Administration and finance                  4,700     4,700    4,;00        -        -           r4,100                  90              Administration et finances
Mechanics and construction                  3.000     3.000    3,000    3,000        -           12.000                  90              Entretien et construction
Sub-Total                                  21.800    21.800   21,800   17I1    14 l0             96,60                                   Total partiel
Consulting Services and Trials                                                                                                           Consultants et essais
Sociologist                                   _       1,750      -       1,750      -             3,500                  -               Sociologue
Fishermen                                     300       300       300      300      -             1,200                  -               Maitre-pecheur
Marketing                                     -         875      -         875      -             1,750                  -               Commercialisation
Other trials and studies                      500       500       500      500      -             2.000                  20              Autres essais et études
Sub-Total                                     800     3.425       800    3.425      -             8-450                                  Total partiel
Training                                                                                                                                 Formation
Local training                                400       400       400      400      -             1,600                  10              Formation au Burundi
Overseas training                           1,000     1  0      1.000    1.000      -             4.000                  95              Formation à l'étranger
Sub-Total                                   1.400     1.400    1,400    1.400       -            5,600                                   Total partiel
Total RDS Technical Services               24,000    26.625   24.000   21.925   14.100         114.650                                   Total - services tecimiques SRn
Future Proiect Preparation and Studies                                                                                                     Preparation des projets futun et études
Fisheries sector                              -          _       _       2,000    2,000           4,000                  50              Secteur de la pêche
Pollution of Lake Tanganyika                2,000     4,000         4000    00    1.000          15,000                  75              Pollution du lac Tanganyika
Sub-Total                                   2,000     4000    4000    6             ,000        19,000                                   Total partiel
BNDE                                                                                                                                       BNDE
Technical advisor                           4 700     4,709     4 700     -                         ,14100               90              Conseiller technioue                              -
Total Investment Costs                     30.700    35.325   32        27925   17,100         143,7 0                                   Coats d'investissement total
January 26, 1976                                                                              le 26 janvier 1976



BURUv'DI
FIS8ERIES DEVELOPME2T PROJECT                                                PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMNEsT DE 7A_ECREL1
Sur_ry of Annu- l Pro-Jct Cost. 1/                                               Etat des CoGts Annuels du Pro.et 1/
(FB.'000)                                                                  (milliers de FBu)
F-reign
-Project Ye.r/Amnée du Projet 3/-----    Totl Years 1-5/    E=e.mgeI
1        2         3         4         5       Tot.1 Anneem  1-5      Devises
PROJECT CO1PONENT                                                                                                                      ELEIETS DU PROJET
RDS FisherieJ Development Investeents                                                                                                   SDR - Investtsseeautn Pour Dive-oeempent de 1. Peche
Fi'hermen credit                                20,425   16,459   22,638    8,049    2,850             70,421           47,075        Credit ... pènheors
Sales progrtm                                    8,900    7,950   10,370   10,300   14,370             51.890           46,290        Ventes ... pècheurs
RDIS caamar-n pures soites                         -       2,500    2,500    5,000    2500             12 500            10.138       Imites de pèche i mesne conroante - SRD
Sub-Total                                       29,325   26.909   35.508   23,349   19.720            134.811          103.503        Totel purtidl
Fishing Cent-r-  *nd St-tions                                                                                                           Centres et Stitions de Pêche
FLshing -ente-S                                  7,785    7,785    7,785         -         -           23,353             8,063       Centres de piche
Fishlol etetione                                 3,d00    3,800    7.600    380            -           19.000             7,310       stations de piche
S.b-Total                                       11.585   11.585   15,335    3,8            _           42,355            15.373       Tot.l pertiel
Fish Marketing                                                                                                                          Co,sercai-isation du Poisson
Buildings and intalldtions                         500       -       1,400       -         -            1,900               515      Biti-ents et imtalltaione
Equipment and vohiclen                           2,230    1,350    2,920         -         -            6,520             5,552      Equipement  et vihinules
sù-king capital                                  2 d62    1,320    4,194                  _376                           2.560       Cout  depu
Sob-Total                                        5,612    2,670    8,5                                 16.796             8.627     Tot.l partiel
Fitherime  OEtmnnion and Flîhernen   Tr.imin.                                                                                           Suigarisstien de 1l  Pêche et Formation des l4theorh
Fiud invenetcnt                                   500       -         -         _         _              500               450       Ifvistinsemants fioes
Op-roting co.te                                    770       --                  770       770          3.850               423       Frais de fonction.eemnt
Sub-Total                                        1.270       7         770       770       770          4.350               873       Total partiel
Reol9ial .. uelosment Society H..dg.arteos                                                                                              Societé RéeLinele de DéveloseeP ent - Sitge
Buildiege and installations                      5,000       -         -         -         -            5,000             1,300       B.timents et icetallottons
Equipment *nd vehicles                           2,300       -         -         -         -            2,300             1,995       Eemipement-   et véhi,.les
Working capital                                    790                          _                         790               316       Fonds de roulement
Sob-Tutl                                        8.090       _         _      _            _            8,090             361L       Total partiel
Total RDS Fihes.  lnusatmonts                   55 ,882   41,934   60.177   27,919   20,49G           206,402          131.987       SDR - Invettiememt pour d- veioppeeent de La pèche
Coast41 Rtgion Doveluopnt ActiviCies                                                                                                    Actiont Pour 1e Deévelopeent de 1a Region C-tie-'
Regionsl d Iveloponnt study                     11,650   20,900   12,900         -         -           45,350           29.575        Etede de déveleppe.-.t re'gione 
Rsgio.al deve -opmeet   tivitir-                   -                          2_ 2,650   2137o   15,720  39J740          10,119       Atti.o.  de dév-lopp-ment regio-1l
Si h-Dtutl                                      11,650   20,900   15,450   21,370   15 720            85 090            39 694        Total partiel
T chni    Services                                                                                                                      lerveco s Tnohncmoes
RDS   Techial           .e                      21,800   21,800   21,800   17,100   14,1u0             96,600           86.940        SRD -  mei-ts.nce technique
RDS - Consul titg services ad triols               8D0    3.425        800    3 .25        -            8,450               4D0       SRD - costlt-nts et esi
RDS  - Icatning                                  1,400    1,400    1,400    1,_00          -            5,600             3,960       SRE - frttimo
Future pro -mc-  prepar-tion and etodi-e         2,000    4,000    4,100    6,300    3,000             19,D00            13,250       Prepsrotion dem prooit u fuurs et éludes
NDE at sr                                        4,700   4,700    4,700        _                       L4100            1269          Conseiller BNDE
Sub-Total                    ~Q30,700   33  12C    2 7z    27,)25   17,100                          143,750           117,240        Total partiel
lutol Pr-joct Investmfn                         98,232   98,159  108,327   77, 14   53 310            435,242          288.921        Total - Investissmenets an titr- du projet
Cueti.g.ncy Ailol ....                                                                                                                  Provisions Pour Fr-it ImPreout
Fhyabtol                                         9,823    9,816   10,833       7,:'21    5,331        43,524            28,892        De pa.s..se.    des quant-it
Prite 2/                                        20,314   33.127   52.130   48 é34   42.247           196.452           130.408        H us.e det prîi  2/
rotal                                           30,137   42,943   62,963   56, 755   47,578          239.976           159 300        Tut.l
Total Project Costt                                 L28,369  141,102  171,290  13369  100,888              675.21            448 221       CoAte tetels du prejet
1/  Ses tables, A-.. 9.                                                                      1/  Voir tableaux, Amnex. 9.
2/  Prise noratîgeeoiea  vere c oloulmted ns f-lot:                                         2/  ipt-revvJ pane hausse des pria  calcn.te    la blue a.uivent:
% Infl-tion Per Am-./, Hanses des prix. Par An
--------Ye-rlAnne-              --
1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981
F.reian E.change Conta                                               Coût  en Devises
Civil .orkn                   14    12    12    12    10    1D   Tr-a-a de g9ii  ciil
Equipment and mocerial         12     S      8     8      7      7   Matériel     e
Tonhnitl aselronne     lo    15    Io    Io    il    10   A95i55t.n.  t..h.i9ne
lotal toutex                  15    IL    10    iL    10    Il   CoeGtn sn m=mmal nationle
Weighted  -veroge              11S   1      10    10    9.4   9.4  Moyenne pondereé
3/  Prui-ec t ,ste  etimoten arma tu  March, 1976:                    --Ltulation ossumetredit  3,  Coût du projet estimée en mars 1976, hypothèèe po-  -.C2uJ.: que le crédit e-trv vu
viiettitemnen Octtber, 1976.  coiect Yeat 1 is alendar 1977.                                   igeur en octobre  16, donc, l'ean            1 du projet sert 1977.
nn-I l7, il76                                                                                le 17 tras 1978



ANNEX 1 1
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
1.        Burundi's isolated position and consequent high transport costs
and lengthy delays in filling orders from abroad accentuate the importance
of effective procurement procedures, well adapted to local conditions.
Procurement would be one of the most important, but also one of the most
complex aspects of the Project and would involve the development of effec-
tive institutional mechanisms and procedures for purchasing, assembling
and distributing equipment and materials required for the fisheries sub-
sector. It would be essential that the Regional Development Society have
an officer with requisite experience and training responsible for procure-
ment activities.
2.        Proposed procedures for procurement for the principal categories
of goods and services to be supplied for the Project are outlined below:
(a) Fishing Boats (approximately US$700,000): Three types of
hulls are used for artisanal fishing in Burundi, and would
be supplied under the Project. A boat may be built with
metal hulls, dug-out canoes made from a single log, and
wooden canoes made from planks. Two, three or four of
these hulls are joined together with metal or wooden booms
to form respectively catamarans, trimarans, or quatramarans
by the Regional Development Society or the fishermen
themselves. Metal boats are manufactured of steel in
Bujumbura by only one supplier; this supplier has the
capability to provide as many hulls as would be required
under the Project, at what appears to be a reasonable cost,
and good quality. Dug-out canoes cannot be made in Burundi,
because of the limited number of trees large enough to be
hollowed out; most dug-out canoes therefore, come from
Zaire. They are purchased directly from Zairois suppliers
by fishermen. Finally, wooden hulls are constructed in
Burundi, primarily in village shops, using wooden planks,
which are often shaped using water and fire. The capacity of
these producers to fill large orders is not clearly known,
but they should be able to produce at least 50 hulls a
year. The Regional Development Society would order batches
of hulls, either from the metal hull manufacturer (lots of
about 100) or from village wooden hull producers (about
10 hulls per order), when they have a clear indication of
interest from potential borrowers; dug-out canoes and some



ANNEX 11
Page 2
wooden plank hulls would be procured directly by fishermen;
satisfactory arrangements for providing funds on credit
for such purchases would be worked out.  It is important
that an element of competition among the different types
of hull be maintained under the Project, so that prices are
kept at a reasonable level, to encourage improvements in
design and to permit fishermen to select the type of
boat best suited to their techniques and location. 1/ If
projected trials with fiberglass hulls prove successful,
such hulls might be substituted for wooden or metal hulls.
Subject to IDA approval, the RDS would establish a shop
for manufacture of some or all of the metal or fiberglass
hulls. Hulls for catamaran purse seiners would be ordered
from the same supplier as for artisanal hulls.
(b)  Outboard Motors (approximately US$170,000):  The Regional
Development Society would provide outboard motors to fisher-
men who desire them.  It is important that these motors be
of very simple design and easy to maintain; it is also
desirable that most or all motors be of the same make, to
facilitate maintenance and supply of spare parts. The motors
need not be powerful; experience under the FAO/UNDP project
has suggested that 15 HP motors used in the past have more
power than is necessary, and that 5-6 HP outboard motors
are adequate for Lake Tanganyika conditions. The FAO/UNDP
project, after experience with various makes, has selected
a type of motor manufactured in Britain, which they believe
meets all requirements, at the lovest possible cost. It
seems likely that this motor might also be used under the
proposed Project. Therefore, given past experience and the
special requirements of the Burundi artisanal fisheries, it
would appear that formal international competitive bidding
following Bank/IDA guidelines would not offer significant
benefits and might well cause significant delays. However,
in order to reduce the risk of price changes and cut-offs
in supply, it would be advisable that the Regional Develop-
ment Society advertise early in the Project in one or more
journals specialized in fisheries with international
readership, in addition tc notifying embassies in Bujumbura,
with a view to obtaining expressions of interest from potential
suppliers. Quotations could then be obtained from suppliers
who expressed interest in providing motors and parts suitable
1/ Some areas along the lakeshore may be better suited for metal boats
(stronger winds and currents), while wooden boats may be more acceptable
elsewhere. The Governnent has expressed reservations about reliance
on wooden hulls because of wood shortages in Burundi.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3
to Burundi conditions. This formula should ensure sufficient
competition to supply motors, while allowing the Regional
Development Society the flexibility which is necessary given
supply conditions to Burundi.
(c)  Drying Racks and Smoking Trays (approximately US$50,000):
The Regional Development Society would require metal racks
for drying fish for its own processing centers, and for sale
to fishermen, and smoking trays for the processing plants.
In the past, the FAO/UNDP Project has ordered these articles
from a local manufacturer, but it has recently begun to
assemble them thenselves from materials imported directly
by them or purchased locally. This capacity to assemble
racks and trays should be developed further under the Project.
Therefore, the recommended procedure for procuring racks and
trays would be for the Regional Development Society to import
materials directly in bulk and to assemble trays and racks
themselves. If materials (metal sheeting and wire netting)
are available locally at reasonable cost, they could be
purchased directly from local suppliers. The Regional De-
velopment Society should obtain at least three quotations
for these materials prior to placing orders.
(d)  Fishing Nets and Covers for Drying Racks (approximately
US$200,OOO): In the past, netting has been obtained from
Japan and plastic sheets from Kenya. The FAO/UNDP project
has imported nylon netting and plastic sheeting directly
and mounted nets and rack covers themselves; the same pro-
cedures should be employed for the proposed Project. The
best method to ensure that materials are obtained at a
reasonable price, while allowing the Regional Development
Society sufficient flexibility to fill orders from fisher-
men promptly, would appear to be to advertise in an inter-
national fisheries journal, and to seek quotations from
suppliers who expressed interest in the offer (as in (b)
above).
(e) Lamps and Lamp Parts (US$200,000): Lamps would be provided
to fishermen by the Regional Development Society; since
lamps must be renewed frequently, and require a reliable
supply of parts, selection of lamp type is particularly
important. It is desirable that lamps-be of very simple
make and easy to operate and maintain. The FAO/UNDP proj-
ect has acquired substantial experience with different types
of lamps. Nevertheless, it would be desirable that the
Regional Development Society establish contact with potential
suppliers, in order to reduce the risk of price changes and
cut-offs in supply. Therefore, it is proposed that the



ANNEX 11
Page 4
procedure of international advertising, followed by requests
for quotations from interested suppliers, be followed (as
in (b) above).
(f) Processing Plant Equipment (US$125,000): A variety of
materials and equipment would be required for the processing
plants; this would include: scales for weighing fish,
brining tanks, mechanical driers, packaging equipment, gene-
rators, and a stock of supplies. The RDS would also require
inboard motors for catamaran purse seine units. The number of
suppliers who could provide these items at reasonable cost is
likely to be very :Limited; in addition, there may be substantial
advantages in using the same make of equipment as has been
procured for the FAO/UNDP project plants. Therefore, it is
recommended that for those items where there is a clear
argument for continuing to obtain equipment from a supplier,
articles be ordered directly, while for other items where
experience is more limited or where there are a number of
potential suppliers, the procedure of advertising in an
international journal and obtaining specific quotations (as
in (b) above) should be employed prior to placing orders.
(g)  Vehicles (approximately US$100,000):  A number of vehicles
*ould be required for the Project. The number of suppliers
who provide adequate maintenance and supplies of parts in
Burundi is very limited, and the Project management should
ensure that these services are available. Quotations for
vehicles and an adequate stock of spare parts should be ob-
tained from dealers of all vehicle manufacturers represented
in Burundi.
(h)  Civil Works (approximately US$380,000):  Civil works under
the Project would include construction of fishing centers,
including processing plants, and fishing station all along
the lake shore, and construction of RDS central offices,
garage and workshop and depots for fish marketing. All
works are expected t:o be relatively small (construction
cost of each center would be under US$20,000), and works
would be scattered i.n terms of location, and staggered over
a period of five years. It would be highly unlikely that
these works would attract interest from firms outside
Burundi, and it may prove difficult to find satisfactory
Burundi contractors at all locations. The FAO/UNDP project
has developed the capacity to construct fiahing centers
by force account, and their work has been satisfactory,
and costs reasonable. Therefore, it is proposed that most
civil works under the Project be carried out by the Regional
Development Society by force account. Where local contractors



ANNEX 1 1
Page 5
are available, they might be retained for part or all of
these works following local competitive bidding.
3.        Government procurement procedures would apply to all purchases,
including purchases of supplies and materials not specifically covered
under the categories outlined in para 2. These procedures are satisfac-
tory.
4.        Documents relating to purchases under US$25,000 would not be
submitted to IDA for prior approval. For purchases over US$25,000,
whether they are purchased directly from a supplier, or several quotations
are sought, prior approval from IDA should be obtained prior to placing
final orders.
November 10, 1975



ANNEX/ANNEXE 12
BURUNDI
HENIESRfl  DEVELOPffNT PROJECT                      PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECRE
Estimated Schedule of Diabursements
Calendrier estimatif des decaissements
IDA Fiscal Year         Cumulative Disbursement              Exercice et
and Quarter              at End of Quarter                Trimestre IDA
(US4'000)
Decaissements cumulatifs
en fin de trimestre
(en milliers de dollars)
1976/77                                                             1976/77
September 30, 1976 1/                      100                      30 septembre 1976 1/
December 31, 1976                          150                      31 décembre 1976
March 31, 1977                             300                      31 mars 1977
June 30, 1977                              600                      30 juin 1977
1977/78                                                            1977/78
September 30, 1977                       1,000                      30 septembre 1977
December 31, 1977                        1,300                      31 décembre 1977
March 31, 1978                           1,600                      31 mars 1978
June 30, 1978                            1,900                      30 juin 1978
1978/79                                                             1978/79
September 30, 1978                       2,100                     30 septembre 1978
December 31, 1978                        2,300                      31 décembre 1979
March 31, 1979                           2,500                      31 mars 1979
June 30, 1979                            2,700                      30 juin 1979
1979/80                                                             1979/80
September 30, 1979                       3,000                      30 septembre 1979
December 31, 1979                        3,400                      31 décembre 1979
March 31, 1980                           3,800                      31 mars 1980
June 30, 1980                            4,100                      30 juin 1980
1980/81                                                             1980/81
September 30, 1980                       4,500                      30 septembre 1980
December 31, 1980                        4,900                      31 décembre 1980
March 31, 1981                           5,100                      31 mars 1981
June 30, 1981                            5,300                      30 juin 1981
1981/82                                                             1981/82
September 30, 1981                       5,400                      30 septembre 1981
December 31, 1981 2/                     5,500                      31 décembre 1981 2/
March 31, 1982                           5,750                      31 mars 1982
June 30, 1982 3/                         6,000                      30 juin 1982 3/
1/  Expected date of effectiveness,               1/  Date prévue pour entrée en vigueur
July 31, 1976.                                    le 31 juillet 1976.
2/  Expected date of Project completion.          2/  Date prévue pour achèvement du projet.
3/  Closing date.                                 3/  Date de clôture.
March 18, 1976                                    le 18 mars 1976



BUNUNDI
F[SHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMEINT DE LA PECHE
Goverseeni - BNDE Cash Flou/Cash FIoW Gournement - BNDE 1/
(FBu'00OI
1          2           3          4           5           6           7          8           9          10         il           12         13          14          15
WASH INFLOW                                                                                                                                                                                                                ENTREES DE FONDS
Frum IDA Credit                      30.895      34,797     39,190      29,662      16,503                                                                                                                                Cr-dit de l'IDA
Frpa  BNDE Debt S-evtce                                                                                                                                                                                                   Service de 1a dette - BNDE
Interest                             617       1,932      3,411       4,789       5,711      6,042       5,539       5,015      4,471       3,905       3,316       2,704       2,067       1,405         716             Interi3t
"ei-cRp -,                                       -         -       - -              -       12_581      13.084      13.6E7      14 152     1471        15 307      15.519      165         1721        17.905             priiespal 
TDtal c. h iRfls                 31,512      36,729     42,601      34 45i      22,214      18,623     18,623      18.622      18,623     14 718      18,623      186623          623     17          18621              Total desetre
CASNI OUTFEO                                                                                                                                                                                                               SORTIES DE FONDS
La-e Co BNDE                         30,895      34,797     39,190      29,662      16,503                                                                                                                               Pret a 1a BNDE
IDA Debt Service                                                                                                                                                                                                         Service de 1a dette - IDA
Service charg.                        77         242        426         599         714         759        759         759         759         759        755         748         740         733         725            Commis,îcn
DeCil Ccl1 onfa,3.92                          3.3        366-                                                                                            ~1518                  1.518       1 518       1.1_Picia
pr Epa L~ Ch outflow30,972                    35,039                             17.217         759        759         759                     759      2273        2.266       2,258       2,251       2                TotaL d   lulties
CASH SURPLUS/DEFICIT                         540       1,690       2,985      4,190       4,997      17,864      17,864      17,863     17,864      17,864      16,350     16,357      16,365      16,372      16,378      SURPLUS/DEFICIT
CUMUILATIVE CASH SURPLUS/DEFICIT              540      2,230       5,215       9,405     14,402      32,266      50,130      67,993     85,857    103,721    120,071    136,428    152,793    169,165    185,543           DISPONIBILITES CUMULEES
1/  BDcîldig PeiRce Contingency  technical assistance and studies, and casial                                                 1/ A lpecluonde  prvons peur hae des pris, a.  t
region develepm_t actiVities                                                                                                  technique et etudes et actions pe   ledeselrppmex,   de la cet
Note; CoVers IDA Crudit osly                                                                                                   qute; Ht recouvre que le cr6dit de 1'IDA,
Mnrch 10, 1976                                                                                                                 le 10 Mas- 1976



ANNEX 14
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND REPORTING AND PROJECT MONITORING
1.   Project Implementation:
During the construction period, the RDS would submit to the Associa-
tion quarterly reports on:
(i) up-to-date cost estimates;
(ii) project constructiLon including a comparison of
the actual/forecast programs;
(iii) progress in training/appointment of key personnel.
2.   Marketing:
Prior to the construction of any new center/station, the RDS would
submit a marketing plan on its marketing strategy for the output of the new
center/station (Annex 2).
3.   Beneficiaries:
A semi annual report w uld cover:
(i)  the number of units (by types) attached to each
center/station;
(ii) the number of trips by lunar period, by unit;
(iii)  the catch of each u-nit during the period;
(iv) statement on number of loan applications received,
and approved;
(v)  statement on number of defaults by fishermen; the
underlying reasons, and corrective action (if any)
that was taken.
4.   Financial:
(i) Within three months of the end of each semester, an
Income statement, balance sheet and cash flow of the
RDS would be provided to IDA;



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(ii)  Every year, within five months of the end of the fiscal
year, the audited income statement, balance sheet and
cash flow would be sent to IDA;
(iii)  A quarterly review of the price at which fish was
purchased from the fishermen, and of the selling
prices of fresh, dried, and smoked fish; a state-
ment on the adequacy of these prices and, if needed
on the revision of the RDS prices would be sent to IDA.
December 24, 1975.



ANNEX 14
Appendix 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Impleinentation
List of Key Steps to be Taken, 1976-1977
Activity                        Responsibility                Date of Completion
Prior to Credit Effectiveness
RDS Accounting Plan sent
to IDA                       RDS, Ministry of Agriculture         Completed
Preparation of criteria for
selection of fishermen and
model contract for sub-
loans and IDA approval       RDS, Government, IDA                 Completed
Approval of powers of RDS
General Manager              RDS Board of Directors               Completed
Appointment of RDS
General Manager              Government, RDS Board of
Directors                         Completed
Completion RDS 1976 Budget    RDS, Ministry of Agriculture          April 197E
Audit of RDS Dec. 31, 1975
Balance Sheet                RDS, Ministry of Agriculture         April 1976
Study and Recommendations
on Insurance for RDS Units  RDS, Ministry of Agriculture          May 1976
Begin recruitment of RDS
staff                        RDS, Ministry of Agriculture         March 1976
Preliminary procurement
procedures                   RDS                                  May 1976
Studies to select center
and station sites            RDS, Government                      May 1976



ANNEX 14
Appendix 1
Page 2
Activity                            Responsibility            Date of Completion
Trials with catamaran
purse seine units and
fiberglass hulled artisanal
units                        RDS, Goverrment                     Underway
Begin establishment of
reforestation tracts at
centers                     RDS                                  May 1976
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
Execution of subsidiary
loan agreements:
Government and BNDE      Government, BNDE                     July 31, 1976
BNDE and the RDS         BNDE, RDS                            July 31, 1976
Appointment of Division
Chief, Administration
and Finance and Advisor      RDS, Government                     July 31, 1976
Signature of Abu Dhabi
Fund Agreement              Governnent                           July 31, 1976
1976-77 Work Program
Appointment of Division
Chiefs for Processing
and Marketing and Advisors  RDS, Government                      October 31, 1976
Appointment of RDS Division
Chief for Fisheries
Development and Advisor      RDS, Government                     January 1, 1977
Construction/Modification
of RDS headquarters          RDS                                 by October 1976
Extension of 3 existing
centers and construction
of new center and
1 station                   RDS                                  Beginning Dec. 1976
Place orders for initial
stocks of fishing
materials and plant
equipment                    RDS                                 October 1976



ANNEX 14
Appendix 1
Page 3
Activity                            Responsibility             Date of Completion
Purchase of RDS vehieles
and supplies                 RDS                                  December 1976
Submission to IDA of
proposals for local and
overseas training            Ministry of Agriculture              October 1976
Preparation of Terns of
Reference for Pollution
Study                        Ministry of Agriculture              December 1976
Preparation of Terms of
Reference for Regional
Development Study and
preliminary proposals
for coastal region           Bureau Technique d'Etudes
development activities         and Ministry of Agriculture        By December 1976
Extension of credit to
fishermen                    RDS                                  Beginning
January 1977
March 10, 1976



ANNEX 14
Table 1
BBURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROECT
Project Implementation Schedule
ACTIVITY                                 1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
RDS Organization
Recruitment of Staff,
General Manager
Offïcers
Technical Assistants
Completion of Organization Study-
Accounting Plan                   -
Construction Activities
Headquarters
1 2   3 
Centers 
Stations                                                       45
Depots and Cold Store                             -    _-_-
Fishing Materials
Procurement
Fishermen Credit and Sales
Training
Overseas Scholarship s
Local Training
Marketing Studies
January 7, 1976



BURUND1
FISHERIES DEVELOPM3NT PROJECT                                                  PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LA PECNE
Finan . lai  Rates       tRente                                                 Taon de Rantabilité Financlexa
(FBuO000)                                                                    <niliere  de FBt)
Before D.v.l.p-.et/        ------------------------- ---------            --^_ ----- --__ --- ------------- ___y-ar/A-é---------------------------- -----------------------------------           --~~-~~~
Avant le proJet          I        2        3      4        5       6       7       8       9       10       il       12       13       14        15       16        17      1        19       20
PROJECT COffONENT/MODEL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PARTIE DU MRBET/flB
1.  %del - Artisanal Fihitnf Uate                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1. Modèle - Uaiteé d  P&inbe Artiseaî
Center Trînaran Matai Halls                                                                                                                                                                                                                            irt,,,.an rsatarh,i n.  rasera
S.le                                                 -                 225       300     375    375      375     375    375      375    375      375                                                                                                   Ventea
Inveata..t Cats and Capital Replaranento             -                 199       -       -        28    -         62      28    -        -        28                                                                                                   Ceûta d'ieoasttssn         t  -pselscemst
Oparatitg Coatr                                      -                 202       213     224    224      224    224      224     224    224    224                                                                                                    FPsta  de Reactiasn_ent   do napital
3at Fi.anolal Reneafil                                                (1761       87     151    123      151      89     123    151      151    123                                                                                                    AvOatagas fi-ntiars mca
Fi .... i.1 R.e  of R.t.-    65.gB                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Tata de  -.tabilité  ftcaacern:65.R%
2.  Model - Artisanal VFiehie  unit                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2. Mdèle - Unité de P&cba Artis.a-l1
Center Tri}lran - W..d.n H.11.                                                                                                                                                                                                    Tti_r.. -attr hé ss ceate  tannas
laies                                                _                 225       ?00     375    375      375    375      375    375    375    375                                                                                                      Ventas
Rn.esttent Co.tt  ond Capital Rpnrcacta              _                 148       -       -        82    -         62    117       28    -         54                                                                                                   Coûta dinvastiasesasat et rsaplsaant
opeta-tng Costa                                      -                 202       21l     224    224      224    224    224    224        224     224                                                                                                   Fesai  da fRoEtisaane     t   de capital
Nat - Finacri.l Banîfits                             _                  125       87     151      69     151      89      34     123    151       97                                                                                                   Avactanea  'Vnsnvtnno ore
Fingncial Rte of Return  83.% r                                                                                                   -       -       -                                                                                                    sT.  dT   rnetabilité frnantie: 83.7%
3.  Modal - Artisanal PRaline Unit                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3. Me3 la -  unité de Pêaha Arti-le
UBattarhld Caranara                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cate-can Idépendent
Salea                                                72                120       144    180    180       180    180    180    180        180     180                                                                                                   Vaent-
l-v-cntnt Conte and Capital Reploeantns             -                  60        20    -         60    -        -        80    -        -        60                                                                                                   Coûta d0vatisaset en    t r-ppl--n--t
opatatinB Coata                                      71                  96       98     102    102    102    102        102    12    102        102                                                                                                   Ftsis de fana . i-nn.nat   do capital
Net It-re 1entl Finacril Resa fit.                    1                 (37)      25      77      17      77      77    13)    7_7    7           17                                                                                                   Avantagea fitnnciara ssppléattaita cats
Finacital Rats of Returc        100i                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Ta.t da rentabilité finan. ièr:  lOllS
4.  Mdel - Catac3ratl Par-  Baine  Uoit                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4. ModAle - laité Caat rs  Avec Sline Tant-
5*t
Hales                                                -               1,725   2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070  2,070                                                                                                             Vantas
1-  atat Catss  asd  8spitl    platn                 -9 -                                -      200      -       600    200    -         -       -                                                                                                    Coûte dleanctiaset e.t  rucpit-l
opeeatiag Conta                                      -                 Rî    1.1  1199  1.1       99   jj19   i.19 îoo i,99  i 199  L1.92  ja.29U                                                                                                      Vraie de  vniesst             de sapital
N  e-Fi .an..a f i  cRts1                                           (1,643)    871    871    671         871      71    671    871       871    671                                                                                                    Avtagea d re    i -aetars asppieantnirea nets
Fica..ai.l Rste ot Ret~tr:  45.2,; ,                                                                                                                                                                                                                   T.st da rentabilfté fit.at.ler-  45.2%
5.  RDS - Ceserrial OPeeetiorn                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5. SRD - Op tratiene Coserciales
-    32,950 64,510 11,260 t7,502 r8,576 171,495 71,495 D1,495 11,495  171,495 171,495 171,495 171,495 171,495 171,495 171,495 171,495 171,495 171,495    Ventes
Inve1- asatta and Capital Repla-.nenre               -              17,485  11.285 12,635  7 700  2,500  4,250  2,550  1,600    600    -                 7,835    7,135   6,985   6,200   2,500   4,250   2,550   1H80               600      -        Inoastîsenants  et  eapl e          do  apitta
Op-ating Cost-                                                       8,900  30 147 59,938 100,452 126,355 136,679 1,3584 138584 1385 84 138,584  138584 138584 1385584 138 8584 1383584 1386584 1386584 138.5b4 138.584 138,584                        Coûte d'anplsitatisn
Net Pisactaia  Besafies                                            (26,30538B482)(8 063)  8J108 18,647 27 .647 44,841 31.111 31,111 32.51   25,076  253776  25.926  26.711  30,411  28661  30361  31,111  32,311  32,911                              Avantages  Ri-niars nets
Picsacisi Rota of Reent:-  34.6T                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Tata da  -antsbilite financiere J46T
NOMT     Thas. rates  f cre-ra ntse e-lr-leatd on the blois af nodels inclsd-d la Adea   9 (Tabl.n  1-8),                                                 NOTE:  Cea t-c   de -nctablit   oct ét0 -clvuJ6é  tnp le obte  de- oedvlîs itt-m  Oses l'anana,           9 (tabllt   1-8) ')
and 6t Anne.   5 (RDI).                                                                                                                                    t .-.- 5 (SRD) .
,scuary 26, 4JT6                                                                                                                                         le 26 j-nvie- 1976



ANNEX 16
Page 1
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Project Production
1.        Estimates of Project production were derived based on the
following assumptions:
(a)  Increased fish catches would be produced by:
-    about 80 artisanal fishing units equipped under the
FAO/UNDP project, and supplied under the Project (parts,
replacement materials, etc.); small production
increases were assumed as Project benefitis (5 tons
a year per unit).
-    about 50 artisanal fishing units operating indepen-
dently (outside the FAO/UNDP) project) would be newly
equipped and attached to centers; incremental production
assumed as about 20 tons a year after year 3.
-    the Project would equip 270 new units; Benefits assumed
following models (Annex 9).
-    the RDS would supply about 200 fishermen outside the
centers and stations with materials, parts and services;
production increases assumed following model, Annex 9,
Table 5.
(b)  RDS fishing centers and stations produce smoked and dried
fish and market it.
(c)  Luxury fish exports as in Annex 9, Table 18.
Assumptions are set out fully in Annex 5, Appendix 3, and Annex 9.
Economic Rate of Return
2.        The economic analysis is based on the following assumptions:
(a)  Project life is 20 years.
(b)  All directly productive project operating and investment costs
for fisheries were included in the rate of return calculation.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
The following costs and benefits related to them were excluded
from the analysis:
(i)  Coastal region development activities, since
the principal benefit would be preparation of
a long term development scheme for the region,
and organization and demonstration through
limited preliminary activities: direct benefits
which might reasonably be expected from Project
investments would include increased production of
food and cash crops from intensification of
farming and use of better techniques in a few
areas, improved marketing and processing the
result of provision of storage facilities and
village processing equipment, reforestation, and
improved social services and rehabilitation
activities.
(ii)  Studies, notably concerning pollution problems in
Lake Tanganyika and future Project preparation.
(iii) Price contingencies.
(c) Foreign exchange costs vere valued at US$1 equals FBu 94
(as opposed to the prevailing exchange rate of US$1
equals FBu 78.35), to reflect the scarcity value of
foreign exchange. RDS exports of frozen and smoked pre-
dator fish were valued at the same rate. While RDS may,
following recent agreements with Rwanda, export up to
the equivalent of 6,000 tons of fresh ndagala to Rwanda,
these potential foreign exchange benefits were not taken
into account because of Lincertainties regarding these
export prospects.
(d) Labor costs (including f:Lshermen's salaries, unskilled
plant labor, and construction workers), were valued at
FBu 25 a day, the standard agricultural wage rate, which
was assumed to reflect the economic cost of labor in
Burundi more closely than official wage rates (minimum
of FBu 40 per day) and wages to fishermen (FBu 35 - 60).
(e)  Fresh and processed fish were valued at estimated average
1975 prices in Burundi which were assumed to remain at
approximately the same level to March, 1976; RDS prices for
purchase of wet ndagala were assumed to remain at FBu 15/kg
on average, although a variable pricing system is proposed in
future for RDS operations; it was assumed that future sales
prices for smoked fish would continue to average FBu 85
per kg.



ANNEX 16
Page 3
3.        Based on these assumptions, the rate of return was estimated
to be 20%. Table 1 gives calculations for the rate of return.
4.        The sensitivity of these rates of return was tested under
several unfavorable assumptions. Table 2 shows the results of this
analysis. If foreign exchange were valued at prevailing exchange rate,
the rate of return would be 36%.
March 10, 1976



117HERIES DEVRWI800T PROJECT
Routnt.i  Rate otfeottsolro
A-at le projet        1        2        3       4        S        6        7        8       9       10       il       12       13       14      15       16       17       18       19       20
RD0 Ndsgela gcîee  .-eakrd loch                        28,091         53,542  74,519 100,223 112,662 119,386 119,107 119,702 119,707 119,707 119,707 119,707 119,702 119,707 119,707 119,707 109,70? 119,707 119,707 119.707 119.707
RD0 Ndsgals Soirs   drîed Oîeh                            -            8,278  19,330  41,443  18,011  66,101  69,062  69,062  69,062  69.062  69,062  69,062  69,062  69.062  69,062  69,602  69.062  69,062  69,062  69.062  69.062
880 Ndaga1a Oaîes-Oreeh ltsh                            2,720          2,180   7,220   9,720  10,920  11,560  11,600  11,680  11.6000  11,600  11,600  11,600  11,600  11.600  11.600  11,600  11.600  11,600  11,600  11,600  11,600
R81 PredetorS.. Oae - hre     fi. h                       -             -         490   1,085   2,205   0,905   1,010   3,010   3,010   3,010   3,010   3.010   3,010   3,010   3,010   3,0110   3,010   3,010   3,010   3,010   3,010
pseerCanesapÉttaa-sttethed  -toit                  3,600         7,890  11,719  17,445  20,5965  22,170  22,515  22,319  72,515  22,511  22,515  22.915  22,515  22,515  22,515  22,515  12.6515  22,515  22,515  22,515  22,519
prr C.ettoeaePtiae ced sales-teattathed .aîte15.000             19,200  20,400  32,400  36,000  38,000  36,000  36,000  36,000C  36,000  36,000  30.000  36,000  36,000  36,000  36,000  30,000  36,000  38,000  36,008  36,000
RaS Fieh Eapart  (tro.ecar.d e,ekad)                                    - __  __j7J3Q0   31.300  3,,,00~2  31.300  31.300  31.300  31.300  31.300  31.300  31.300  11.300 J1.300  31.300  31,300J  J1I300  31.300  31.300  31.300
Total Rr.-fit.                                    49.411        94.090 1391674 233.616 271,693 289,631 293.194 293.194 293.194 293.194 293.194 293,194 293.194 293.1.94 293.194 293.194 293,194 293.194 293.194 293,194 293.194
Pichis4 Eqolp-ect erd ilttae-                                         29,325  26,909  35,508  23,349  10,720
pochons Ceagace sed Steelar -.                                         7,435   7,435  10,135   2,700
Fteh Marketing                                                         2 ,730   1,350   4,320      -       -
Fishertea Ooteete                                                        500     -        -        -        -
RU   eA...or                                                           5,300     --                        -
proleat operetose Caste crd  .pteetlRrl1         er
anS rarce Score Oot - operatosg Caste .                                           820   1,740   3,480   4,530  45,550   5,330   5,500   6,180   5,950   4.550   4,750   5350   5,050   5,930   5,350   5,350   1,210   6,150   5,350
600 opcrcîlegCases, terrer  ard OterOara  9,322         15,392  20,938  28,981  30,729  31,505  31,105  31,505  31,505  11,505  39.000  39,000  39,000  40 ,000  34,000  31,300  31.000  31,300) 31,500  31,500  31,100
gDS Marketing                                              900         1,525   5,670  22,005  27,189  27,891  27,613  22,613  22,613  27,613  27,613  30.000  30,008  27,613  27,613  27,613  27,613-  23,613  17.853  27,613  22.613
R8 Dclîecl$                                              1,008         2,720   2,720   2,992   3,791   1,629   3,982   3,962   3,902   3,982   3,982.  9,000   3,982   3,982   3,982   3,982   3,982   3,962   3,982   3,982   3,982
Artcohed Orîre - OpcratiUo  tarer                      16,144         32,240  55,380  79,580  07,730  89,270  90,000  95,000  95,000  99,000  95,000  95,000  93,000  95,000  95,000  95,000  91,000  91,000  95,000  95,000  95,000
Oaettaohed Urîce - Operarîng tare                      14,200         22,700  27,400  22,000  26,400  26,400  22,000  00,400  28,400  22,000  26,400  26,400  22,000  28,400  28,400  22,000  26,400  26,400  26,600  26,400  26,400
R800  E.tetetela                                                         770      770      720      770     770      700      700      700      700      700    -       _-                          -                            
Totl Opeîatong torts                              41,166        79.S950 109 746 163.068 179.589 183.506 185 350 192 750 192,750 186.950 198.245 203.950 194J.22  200.345 194.145 166.041 189.845 189.845 190.245 190,845 l8.4
Ne   rcrrîa   oatoa  or.rfit.                             -           6, )(45J1>(16.362) 35,805  64009,9 92 2,199l  92.199  97 999  86 704  80,999  90.217  84,604  90.804  98.904  95,104  95,104  94i724  94..304  95.104
Terre                                                                  3,000   3,425   4,725   4,550   4,350   3,700   3,850   3,830   3,840   3.960   4,090   3,890   4,000   3,990   3,720   3,800   3,800   3,800   3.915   3,800
Lab-r                                                                  5.000   8.000 JQ99Q0  12 .900 J1~2.     12.500  12,500  122100  12,500  12.500  12.500  12.500  12,500  12.,500  1~250   12.5012,500 12,5 004jQ   1&2Q50   12.50
TalaI Ajosteiets                   ____              ____   _____              _________    _______________________  _____  ____    _____                          3083(1,3083(1,392>(7,461117,302
Oc   trcetl  tqt               afitt.                                (%.05l>(74.50 9,32a2)  01,75e  39 47  83.135  74 33 1  74.331  81,339  67.792  60.909  7.1,973  67217   7    231    7762   9    77.312  76837.9
Eoaraseo  Rate af Rotera 20.i
Inoory 2   1q76                                                                                                                                            Ir 76 joIcr(17



ANNEX 16
Table 2
BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return If
Sensitivity Analysis
Rate of Return -%
1. Economic Rate of Return                       20
2.  Costs Increased by 10%                       il
3.  Costs Increased by 20%                        4
4.  Benefits Reduced by 10%                      10
5.  Benefits Reduced by 20%                       0
6. Costs Increased by 10% and
Benefits Reduced by 10%                       2
7. Foreign Exchange Valued at
Prevailing Exchange Rates                    36
8. Labor Costs Valued at
Market Levels                                14
_/ See Table 1.
January 23, 1976






BURUNDI
FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIETY (RDS)
TENTATIVE ORGANIZATION CHART
BOARD OF DIRECTORS |
l~~~ l
| General Manager       l
|  Fisheries       l     l         Fish                       Makein                      Administration    l
| Development                     Processing      .11                                       and Finance      l
{  Services   |        l                            {   l                 h       r                     l
Io          j       |   Procurement                 Centers, Stations              Administration                    Finance
Workshop
VVorld Bank-15359(R)






IBRD 11587R
r                                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOVEMBER 1975
k  ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                            <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,1RU    
K.b   rr'
Te4NO   Mig                                                                         -  pjgi
CIBITOKE~ ~ ~                                                         NGOZ I__
KAYAN~~~~~~~
~~UBANZ,A->Da
URAMVYA                                                                                       KUZO~~~~~AK
ljviye ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~                                                                 RUGj
JJU.BLJR
NY>1/,                                                                                   TG
O, g e              CGI~~~~1
eïtan                                                amvy~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~kcb ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      ~       ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     a~~
iSERIES DEVELQPiMENT PROJECT
ANAT~NTONLAÎPR
NTSVNG,SATIDA O~NS A~
Ma,ab,a    a         a~ jaaapta-~~taa,aan,ana arFarra  NkF -*tM            IU S       ERSPRiÇ
~~' ~~~i~~aaaaaaaa  -AED  OA



