CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 626 BU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Fisheries Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
*                               and
SOCIETE REGIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
"USINES DE POISSONS DU BURUNDI"
and
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE
Dated June 11, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and SOCIETE
REGIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT "USINES DE POISSONS DU BURUNDI" (here-
inafter called the Corporation) and BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPE-
MENT ECONOMIQUE (hereinafter called BNDE).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Burundi (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to six million dollars ($6,000,000), on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that the Corporation and BNDE agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into be-
tween the Borrower and BNDE and between BNDE and ".he Corporation,
respectively, the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan will be made
available to the Corporation by the Borrower, through BNDE, on
the terms and conditions set forth in such subsidiary loan
agreements;
WHEREAS the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement to finance goods, works and operating
expenses for Part E of the Project will also be made available to
the Corporation by the Borrower, on a grant basis; and


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Corporation and BNDE, in consideration of the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Corporation shall carry out Parts A through
E of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, fishing and
marketing practices, and with the Statutes of the Corporation.
Section 2.02. (a) BNDE shall relend the proceeds of the Sub-
sidiary Loan to the Corporation under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into with the Corporation under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
(b) BNDE shall duly perform all its obligations under the
BNDE Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Corporation Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and shall exercise its rights thereunder in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BNDE
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the BNDE
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof, nor assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Corporation Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment or any provision thereof.
(c) The Corporation shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Corporation Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Excent as the


﻿-5-
Association shall otherwise agree, the Cornoration shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Corporation Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.03. BNDE shall assist the Corporation in:
(a) carrying out Part B (iii) of the Project, and super-
vise the activities of the Corporation with resnect to said Part
of the Project;
(b) establishing a7prooriate management procedures and
accounting systems; and
(c) carrying out periodic reviews of the Corporation's
financial performance.
Section 2.0I. (a) The Corporation shall carry out Parts A
through E of the Project with the technical assistance of experts
and consultants to be employed, for said purpose, by the Borrower
and whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association and the Cor-
poration, as follows:
(i) four experts, one each for each of the Corporation's
divisions in charge of:
(A) fisheries development and extension;
(B) fish processing;


﻿-6-
(C) fish marketin7; and
(D) administration and finance; and
(ii) such other experts and consultants as shall be
agreed between the Borrower, the Association and
the Corporation.
(b) To assist BNDE in carrying out its obligations under
Section 2.03 of this Agreement, BNDE shall use the services of an
expert to be employed, for said purpose, by the Borrower and whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association and BvDE.
Section 2.05. Excent as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and works for Parts A through E of the Project to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be nrocured in ac-
cordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) The Cornoration undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Parts A through E of the Project aqainst hazards incident to the
acquisition, transporation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by the Corporation to re-
place or repair such goods.


﻿-7-
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Cor-
poration shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts A through E of the
Project to be used exclusively for said Parts of the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) The Corporation shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, promptly upon theii preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
Parts A through E of the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Corporation: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of Parts A through E of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods, works and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Parts
of the Project, and to disclose the use thereof in said Parts of
the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representa-
tives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in
Parts A through E of the Project, and to examine the goods fi-
nanced out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts A through
E of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so
allocated and the goods, works and services financed out of such
Droceeds.
(c) The Corporation shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,


﻿-8-
buildings, property and equipment of the Corporation and any
relevant records and documents.
(d) BNDE shall: (i) furnish to the Association all such in-
formation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
Parts A through D of the Project and the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Subsidiary Loan, and (ii) enable the Association's
accredited representatives to examine any records and documents
of BNDE relevant to said Parts of the Project.
Section 2.08. (a) The Cornoration shall, at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of Parts A through E of the Project, the Derfor-
mance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Corporation Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) The Corporation shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of Parts A through E of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Corpora-
tion of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Corporation Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) BNDE shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the pro-
gress of Parts A through D of the Project, the nerformance of its
obligations under this Agreement, under the BNDE Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and under the Corporation Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the nurnoses of the Credit.


﻿9
(b) BNDE shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of Parts A through D of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by BNDE of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement, under the BNDE Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment and under the Corporation Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) In carrying out Part B(iii) of the Project,
the Corporation shall:
(i) select the Sub-borrowers on the basis of
criteria satisfactory to the Association
and including, inter alia, specific require-
ments to ensure that Sub-borrowers possess
experience with artisanal fishing and have
their permanent residence near one of the
fishing centers or fishing stations included
in Part A of the Project;
(ii) enter into loan contracts with the Sub-
borrowers which shall follow a model con-
tract satisfactory to the Association and
provide for an interest rate satisfactory
to the Association; and
(iii) submit to the Association for its review
and prior concurrence any change of said
criteria, model contract or interest rate
considered by the Corporation.


﻿- 10 -
(b) The Corporation shall periodically consult with the
Borrower, the Association and BNDE on the appropriate level of
interest rates on loans to Sub-borrowers.
Section 2.11. Prior to the establishment of facilities for the
manufacturing of fishing boats by the Corporation, the Corporation
shall furnish to the Association for its review and concurrence a
detailed plan for the boat building activities to be carried out
by the Corporation.
Section 2.12. The Corporation shall consult with the Associa-
tion prior to carrying out Parts D(ii) or D(iv) of the Project.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Corporation
Section 3.01. (a) The Corporation shall employ adequate and
qualified staff.
(b) Without any limitation to te generality of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Corporation shall annoint a qualified counter-
part to each of the experts referred to in Section 2.04 (a) (i)
of this Agreement.
(c) Before appointing any of the counterparts referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section, the Cornoration shall furnish
to the Association the nwnes and all pertinent information regarding
the qualifications and experience of the persons considered for
such appointment and afford the Association an opportunity to ex-
change views with the Corporation on the qualifications and exper-
ience of such persons.
Section 3.02. The Corporation shall establish its management
procedures and accounting systems with the assistance of BNDE.
Section 3.03. The Cornoration shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with anprooriate practice.
Section 3.04. The Corporation shall maintain the facilities
included in Parts A through E of the Project in accordance with


﻿-12-
sound administrative. engineering and fishing Dractices and shall
provide promptly as needed, the funds. facilities and resourceS
therefor.
0


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants of the Corporation
Section 4.01. The Corporation shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained anpropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition; such
records shall include separate accounts for Part E of the Project.
Section 4.02. The Corporation shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by indeDendent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) fur-
nish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so au-
dited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of the
Corporation and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Corporation shall undertake joint periodic
reviews of its financial performance with BNDE.


﻿ARTICLE V
Management, Operations and Financial Covenants
of BNDE
Section 5.01. BNDE shall take all action necessary to ensure
that BNDE disposes of sufficient qualified and experienced staff
for the purpose of carrying out its obligations under Section 2.03
of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. BNDE shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained anpropriate accounting
practices its operations in respect of the Subsidiary Loan.
Section 5.03. BNDE shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently apnlied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning the accounts and financial statements of BNDE and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.


﻿- 15 -
Section 5.04. BNDE shall use the proceeds of the Subsidiary
Loan which have been repaid by the Corporation and not yet repaid
by BNDE to the Borrower, for the purpose of investments in the
artisanal fisheries sector in aeco-4ar,e with an Investment 'nrogrwr
to be approved, annually, by the Association.


﻿-16 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Corporation and BNDE thereunder shall termi-
nate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)       the date on which the DeveloTAment Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)      a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date snecified in paragraph (a)(ii)
of this Section, the Association shrll promptly notify the Corpora-
tion and BNDE of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or per-
mitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Corporation:
Soci't' Regionale de Developpement
"Usines de Poissons du Burundi"
Bujumbura
Burundi
Cable address:
SRD "USINES DE POISSONS DU BURUNDI"
Bujumbura


﻿-18                                     0
For BNDE:
Banque Nationale de Dgveloppement
A Economique
Boite Postale 1620
Bujumbura
Burundi
Cable address:
DEVBANK
Bujumbura
Section 7.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be executed, un-
der this Agreement on behalf of the Corporation may be taken or
executed by the General Manager of the Corporation or such other
person or persons as the General Manager shall designate in writ-
ing.
(b) The Corporation shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the
Corporation, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by the Corporation pursuant to
any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.03. (a) Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be executed, un-
der this Agreement on behalf of BNDE may be taken or executed by
the President of BNDE or such other person or persons as the Pres-
ident shall designate in writing.
(b) BNDE shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
SOCIETE REGIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT
"USINES DE POISSONS DU BURUNDI"
By /s/ Clment Sambira
Authorized Representative
BANQUE NATIONALE DE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE
By /s/ Clement Sambira
Authorized Representative


