                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 31037

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                    (IDA-33300)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.1 MILLION
                         (US$ 10.83 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF GHANA

                                     FOR THE

                 URBAN 5 PROJECT IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE
                      OF THE URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM




                                 December 30, 2004




Water and Urban 2
Country Department 10
Africa Region

                               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective November 17, 2004)

                                 Currency Unit = Cedi (GHC)
                                         GHC 1 = US$ 0.000111
                                          US$ 1 = GHC 9,010

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1   December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADRP     Accra District Rehabilitation Project
AfD      Agence Francaise de Développement
APL      Adaptable Program Loan
CAGD     Controller and Accountant General's Department
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
DA       District Assembly
DACF     District Assembly Common Fund
DCD      District Coordinating Director
DCE      District Chief Executive
DFO      District Finance Officer
GPRS     Ghana Poverty Reduction Strategy
HIPC     Highly Indebted Poor Country
IDA      International Development Association
IGR      Internally Generated Revenue
ILGS     Institute of Local Government Studies
KNUST    Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology
LGDP     Local Government Development Project
LGPSU    Local Government Project Support Unit
LGSA     Local Government Service Act
MA       Municipal/Metropolitan Assembly
MLGRD    Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MTDP     Medium term Development Plan
MTR      Mid-Term Review

NDF      Nordic Development Fund
O&M      Operations and Maintenance
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSC      Public Services Commission
PSR      Project Status Report
RIAP     Revenue Improvement Action Plan
SDR      Standard Drawing Right
TTL      Task Team Leader
UESP     Urban Environmental Sanitation Project


                                Vice President:    Gobind Nankani
                              Country Director     Mats Karlsson
                               Sector Manager      Inger Andersen
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Charles K. Boakye

                                            GHANA
                                           URBAN 5


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Borrower's Assessment of the Project                                    31

Project ID: P050624                                                  Project Name: URBAN 5
Team Leader: Charles K. Boakye                                       TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: URBAN 5                                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-33300
   Country/Department: GHANA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General water, sanitation and flood protection sector (31%);
                            Sub-national government administration (24%); General
                            transportation sector (23%); Agro-industry (15%); Other social
                            services (7%)
                  Theme: Municipal governance and institution building (P); Other urban
                            development (P); Decentralization (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Municipal finance (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/28/1998                                     Effective: 06/30/2000                08/06/2001
     Appraisal: 09/21/1999                                         MTR: 09/16/2002                  09/16/2002
      Approval: 03/30/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF GHANA/MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND
                                           RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                      Other Partners:      Nordic Development Fund, Agence Francaise de Developpment

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind Nankani                                 Callisto Madavo
Country Director:               Mats Karlsson                                  Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager:                 Inger Andersen                                 Letitia A. Obeng
Team Leader at ICR:             Charles K. Boakye                              Jagdish K. Bahal
ICR Primary Author:             Charles K. Boakye; James O.
                                Wright


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
As stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the objective of the project was to strengthen the
technical, financial and management capacities of the 23 participating District Assemblies (DAs) and to
finance the provision and/or rehabilitation of basic infrastructure.

Ghana has 42 towns classified as urban settlements under the Local Government Act and the project had
been preceded by four other urban projects that dealt with infrastructure and capacity constraints in the
largest seventeen urban settlements. The Accra District Rehabilitation Project (ADRP) supported
infrastructure investment in Accra in the late 80's and early 90's. The Urban II Project and the Urban
Environmental Sanitation Project (UESP) supported improvements in the five largest cities, while the Local
Government Development Project (LGDP) supported the next twelve secondary towns, all in the late
1990's and early 2000's. The twenty-five remaining urban settlements, located in 23 DAs, contained a
large percentage of Ghana's urban poor and had received little donor attention, due to their limited sizes
and remote locations.

The Urban V project was to be the first phase of a three-phase Adjustable Program Loan (APL) planned
for the urban sector in Ghana over a period of eleven years. Each phase was to constitute a separate
project with its own credit agreement, but all three shared a common objective. This Phase 1 project,
covering three years, was to strengthen the technical, financial and management capacities of the 23
participating DAs and to finance the provision of a limited amount of basic infrastructure. Phase 2, with
similar objectives, was to strengthen and deepen the capacity building initiatives of Phase 1 and provide
basic infrastructure to participating DAs on a demand-driven basis. It would expand to an additional 12
secondary towns, and continue to provide training and technical assistance. Phase 3 was to continue to
finance infrastructure and training needs and capacity building in all 39 urban cities and towns in Ghana on
a demand-driven basis.

The project supported two of the goals of the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Ghana of September
4, 1999, namely: (i) to promote private investment, and ii) to alleviate poverty. The goals were to be
supported by improving basic infrastructure and services, involving private contractors and strengthening
the management of local governments. The objectives were also in accordance with the Government's
priorities of infrastructure provision in urban areas through decentralized services management under the
constitution of the second Republic of Ghana (1992), and the Local Government laws (1988 and 1994).

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not changed.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of five components:

COMPONENT 1: Training for DAs - US$1.13 million

This component provided training in planning and management, including: (a) infrastructure management
(procurement and management of consultants and contractors); (b) maintenance management (development
of maintenance programs); (c) management of private contract maintenance; (d) updating and monitoring
development plans; (e) financial management; (f) revenue mobilization; and (g) property tax improvement.
DA staff members were to be trained to involve the communities in planning and prioritizing needs. No set




                                                       - 2 -

amount was "reserved" for a particular DA. DAs were to be provided training as requested.

COMPONENT 2: Strengthening Financial Management - US$0.92 million

Technical assistance was tailored to enhance the planning, management and resource mobilization
capacities of the DAs. This included: (i) strengthening financial management capacity using Revenue
Improvement Action Plans and establishing financial management systems; and (ii) property revaluation
following the completion of the mapping exercise. These activities were to be managed by the Local
Government Project Support Unit (LGPSU) involving studies and consultants and covering each of the 25
towns.

COMPONENT 3: Mapping - US$3.43 million

This was to be financed by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF), producing digital and printed base maps
for all 25 towns and building capacity in the Survey Department Head Office, eight regional survey offices
and the 23 DAs to make information more available for planners, engineers, providers of utility services,
land valuation officers, revenue collectors and title registrars. This activity was to be carried out in phases
over the 11 year APL program period. During this project, printed and digital maps would be developed
for all 25 towns for use by the eight professional surveyors located in the capitals of the regions covered by
the project (Ashanti, Brong-Ahafo, Central, Eastern, Greater Accra, Northern, Volta and Western regions).
Computer-based digital mapping equipment was to be installed in one pilot region (Brong-Ahafo).

COMPONENT 4: Infrastructure and Municipal Services Sub-Projects - US$12.90 million

This was to finance infrastructure investments including (a) water supply; (b) liquid waste management; (c)
solid waste management; (d) roads and footpaths; (e) storm drainage; (f) security lighting; (g) markets; (h)
lorry parks/transport terminals; (i) community infrastructure upgrading; and (j) slaughterhouses.
Sub-projects were to be demand-driven, reflecting the highest priorities of the communities themselves by
involving them in the planning process. Road projects under this component were to be co-financed by the
French Aid Agency (AfD).

COMPONENT 5: Project Implementation Support - US$2.02 million

This was to help the DAs to perform their responsibilities to develop local infrastructure. The overall
responsibility for the implementation of the project was with MLGRD. The Local Government Project
Support Unit (LGPSU) in the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Government (MLGRD) was to
provide project management and implementation support to the DAs. LGPSU was to operate with a core
team of 8 specialists, 4 in Accra and 4 in the field office (2 engineers, 2 finance specialists, 2 training
administrators and 2 planners) to support technical and institutional development and capacity building in
the DAs. The eight specialists would be provided for a three-year period, as well as operational support to
LGPSU including vehicles, equipment, and financing other operating costs. The position of Project
Director (PD) was to be funded under the on-going Local Government Development Project.

CONTINGENCIES: (physical and price) - US$1.9 million

Assessment of Components

The design of the components was appropriate for achieving the project objectives, especially with the
weight given to local capacity building in Component 1 and to technical assistance to DAs in Component 2.


                                                      - 3 -

It addressed the risk of implementing financial management systems in the local governments, and focused
on eight pilot towns, one in each region. However, the selection process based on geographical spread (one
town per region) was questionable, as some DAs that wanted to participate in the project could not be
selected, and others that were less enthusiastic were selected. Component 3, wholly financed by NDF, was
critical for enabling proper planning, revenue mobilization and infrastructure investments during
subsequent phases of the program. Component 4 gave each of the 25 DAs the opportunity to "learn by
doing" contract management and administration for at least one infrastructure subproject. The component
was necessarily broad to allow a flexible response to demand, and it included the preparation of a second
set of sub-projects for financing under the next phase of the program. AfD contributed about 70% of the
funding for this component, focusing on road projects in 10 towns.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not changed. However, about US$2 million was used to procure waste management
equipment at the request of the DAs and the MLGRD. It was procured from funds earmarked for the
second set of subprojects and savings from project components, with concurrence from the Bank.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.
The project objective was consistent with the Government's strategy for the urban sector. Under the Local
Government Act of 1993, Ghana's Metropolitan, Municipal and District Assemblies had already been
given the status of autonomous local governments with legislative and executive powers within their areas
of jurisdiction, and the power to approve budgets, raise revenue, borrow funds, and provide infrastructure
and basic services. The Local Government Service Act was to grant autonomy to DAs to recruit, retain
and manage their staff.

The government evidenced its commitment to the project and to the longer-term program during
preparation. The Minister of MLGRD announced the Government's commitment to the project and used
funds from the LGDP to assess the needs of the 25 secondary towns. This was reviewed during the first
project preparation mission in April 1998. This commitment was reflected in a letter elaborating an
eleven-year program on the goals of the urban sector, in lieu of a revised urban sector strategy.

The Adaptable Program Lending (APL) tool and the demand-driven approach were expected to generate
development incentives and flexibility. The project and program design enabled the DAs to progressively
meet development objectives as country conditions and partnerships evolved, with defined milestones,
performance indicators, and triggers for moving from one phase to the next. Both supported development
and reform of the sector, with institutional development and an incentive system for the DAs.

The previous urban projects, which had been implemented satisfactorily in the largest towns, provided a
good body of experience and lessons that were taken into account during project preparation. The project
also benefited from project unit staff members who had been involved in the implementation of the previous
projects. Key project staff in each DA attended short training courses during the preparatory stages and
prior to effectiveness to build capacity for early-learning activities in project budgeting, accounting,
consultant selection, procurement and development planning.

An overall environmental assessment was carried out prior to appraisal. The potential environmental and
social impacts were adequately assessed. Most of the works were small and had a low potential for
negative environmental impact, with the exception of the waste disposal sites, which were located away
from settlements. Moreover and in accordance with Ghana EPA laws, an Environment Impact Assessment
(EIA) was mandatory as part of the design and construction of projects with environmental impact.




                                                      - 4 -

A delay in effectiveness slowed some of the momentum gained in preparation. The project was negotiated
in February 2000 and approved by the Bank Board in March 2000, but there was a 14-month delay before
effectiveness due to elections in December 2000, delays in parliamentary approval and the recruitment of
the auditor for the project. The delay, however, did not affect initial procurement activities, which
proceeded with funding from LGDP.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, in view of the achievement of the development
objectives and of the activation of most of the triggers established to move the APL to its second phase.

Strengthening the Technical, Financial and Management Capacity of District Assemblies

Capacity Building - Capacity building through training was the main goal of the project and the project
outcome has broadened the perspective of the staff of the Assemblies. The project contributed directly to
the strengthening of technical, financial and management capacities in the 23 participating DAs. At the end
of the project, all 23 DAs had a full team of key technical, financial and management staff in place (Annex
1B), compared to 60% staff capacity before the project. In effect, all the Assemblies have District
Engineers, Planners and Finance Officers. The project actually required the DAs to have personnel in
place as a condition for drawing funds for subprojects under the next phase. About 2,200 staff members in
the 23 DAs improved their skills in planning, management, consultant supervision and works procurement
and supervision, financial management, revenue improvement, municipal engineering and information
technology. Personnel in the DAs have used these skills during project implementation.

A Training Impact Study was carried out at the end of the project that concluded that the training program
has improved capacity, both individual and organizational. The DAs and their staff now have tools to
establish strategic perspectives within the decentralized local government administrative system. The study
indicated that training has achieved behavioral change as well as skills transfer. Courses in computer use,
financial management, revenue mobilization, project management, communication and interpersonal skills
had a substantial impact on senior management, and they helped to improve teamwork among staff. Most
of the participants (up to 98% in one group) expressed satisfaction with the overall organization of the
training regarding the delivery, facilitation, course contents learning materials, and logistics.

Individuals most positively affected were the District Financial Officers (DFOs), District Budget Officers
(DBOs) and the Deputy District Coordinating Directors (DDCDs). The groups whose effectiveness was
most positively impacted were the works departments, tender boards and committees, district evaluation
teams and finance units. Improved intra and inter departmental relationships, better teamwork and
improved team performance were cited as key impact areas. Data gathered suggests that the training had a
lesser impact on DCE and DCD's as individuals. This could be attributed to their inability to actively
participate beyond the opening and closing sessions. DCEs and DCD's are the political and administrative
heads respectively of the District.

All 23 districts reported increases in locally generated revenue as a result of the improved capacity of
revenue collectors, supervisors and finance staff, and increased use of computers by finance units. In 2000,
only three DAs had Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of more than half a billion cedis ($130,000), but
by 2003, all with the exception of two DAs, had exceeded that mark, some by more than tenfold. In
aggregate, total revenues of the 23 DAs increased by 11% in 2001 over the previous year. In 2002, they
grew much faster, posting a gain of over 60%. Although the rate of increase declined to 54% in 2003, the



                                                      - 5 -

performance of the previous year helped achieve an average growth rate of 55% during the period 2001 to
2003, while annual inflation averaged 15% during the period. The increased internal revenues have
enabled DAs to undertake more development projects. Though this is only 20% of participating DAs
current total revenues, the remaining 80% being grant transfers from DACF, HIPC, GET fund, the stage
has been set for more rapid increases in the DAs revenues over time. All 23 districts documented a timely
submission of financial reports due to computer usage and improved staff capacity. More than half of the
districts reported improvement in communication and information flow between the DA staff and units,
departments and the public, improved responsiveness of DA staff to public and assembly-persons, and
improvement in contracting and execution of projects.

The maps produced will support land-use and infrastructure planning, revenue mobilization through
property rating, and future title registration. The maps will promote proper development control and
reduce the spread of slums and urban sprawl. The maps are essential to enable land users, planners,
engineers, land valuers, and providers of utility services to carry out their work properly.

Strengthening Capacity Building Institutions - A new Local Government Service Act, one of the triggers
for moving to the next phase was enacted in conjunction with this project in early 2004 to give the DAs the
autonomy to recruit, retain and manage their own staff. In line with the Decentralization program, the Act
places civil servants working for local governments on a separate roster and enables DAs to participate
with the Central Government in decision-making regarding human resource development in the District
Assemblies. Parliament has also passed an act establishing an independent Institute of Local Government
Studies (ILGS) to support district assemblies' training programs, and initial training programs have been
undertaken. The Inspectorate Department of the MLGRD is also in a better position to monitor the
financial performance of DAs by facilitating the processing of monthly financial returns and improving
coordination between MLGRD and the Controller and Accountant General's Department (CAGD). The
reporting of the assemblies' revenue and expenditure programs has since improved. According to DFOs,
due to computer and financial management training and usage, trial balances that took three to four months
to prepare, are now prepared within one month. Manuals have been prepared on the existing financial
management systems in all participating DAs and recommendations have been made for improvement. A
major outcome of the study is the awareness in participating districts of the inadequacies of the existing
systems and the potential for improvement.

Rehabilitation of Basic Infrastructure

Assemblies implemented priority infrastructure projects which, in addition to their direct benefits to
communities, provided an opportunity for learning-by-doing. About 65% of the total project funds was
spent on infrastructure improvements that included town roads and drainage (42%), general environmental
and waste management improvements (18%), and market and lorry park rehabilitation (15%). There are
improved sanitary conditions, greater accessibility, and better solid and liquid waste collection enabled by
the provision of cesspit emptiers and skip trucks. Roads financed by the AfD roads have opened up
isolated areas of the towns, improved traffic conditions and helped to improve social conditions. The
improved roads are leading to increased property values, ultimately increasing the potential for increased
property tax revenue.

A number of skilled and unskilled laborers were temporarily employed from over 38 civil works contracts
that were awarded. An unspecified number of low-income people, including traders and commuters who
did not have access to proper sanitation benefited from latrines built in markets, lorry parks and other
public areas. While a gender objective was not explicitly stated, women benefited more from improved
working environment and health conditions at the markets and lorry parks.


                                                     - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 - Training for DAs (US$1.13 million PAD; US$0.85 million ICR)
The output under this component is rated as highly satisfactory.

Out of the target of 2,220 training days forecast in the PAD, the project achieved 92% of the planned
target, or 2,036 training days. This exceeds the 70% target established as the trigger for moving to the next
phase of the program. The training included 1911 days of outreach and coaching courses carried out in the
23 beneficiary districts and 125 training days of courses held in ILGS and KNUST. This performance,
after initial delays, was possible because of the shift from centrally delivered courses to district-based
outreach and coaching courses. As shown in Table 1 below, out of the targeted 2036 training days, 512
days (23% of the target in the PAD) were hands-on coaching, while 1394 days (63%) were outreach
courses, while about 5.6% were for centrally delivered courses. DAs have confirmed that this combination
of coaching and field work enhanced knowledge and skills in the DAs (see Section 4.1).

                  Table 1: Training Days Delivered Compared to Planned Targets
 Planned Mode of Delivery         Training Days       Target (70%      Training days   Training Days
                                  planned             of planned)      Delivered       Delivered (%)
 DA Hands-on Coaching             690                 31%              331            512 (23%)
DA Outreach Courses              1380                 62.2%            1338           1399 (63%)
Centrally delivered courses by   150                  6.8%             103            125 (6%)
ILGS and KNUST

 Total                            2220                100%             1772           2036 (92%)

Course structure of Assemblies' training program

Table 2 presents the number of attendances and training days per skill area recorded in the DAs under the
Hands-On and Outreach Program. The total number of attendances recorded in the 23 beneficiary districts
through district-based training courses (i.e. outreach and hands-on coaching) was 4,681. Attendance was
preferred as the unit of measurement over number of trainees, because the same trainees attended more than
one course.

         Table 2: Attendance and Training Days by District-Based Training
                          (centrally-based training excluded)
                                   No. of         % of Total     No. of Training    % of Total Training
     Skill Areas                   Attendances    Attendances    Days               Days (Actual)
                                                                 (Actual)
1      Development Planning        1736           39%            339                17.8%
2      Engineering & Contract
       Management                  477            10.2%          278                14.5%
3      Financial Management &
       Revenue Mobilization        809            17.2%          172                9.0%
4      Computer Skills             308            6.6%           886                46.4%
5      Human Resource &
       People Management           1351           28.9%          236                12.3%
       Skills
     TOTAL                         4681           100%           1911               100%

Training in computer skills received the most attention (886 days, 46.4% of the total number of 1911



                                                       - 7 -

training days) in the districts, though it covered the least number of attendance (308 out of 4,681 or 6.5%).
Training in Financial Management recorded the least number of days, 172. Additional training was carried
out after the completion of the financial management systems. Courses in leadership, human resource
development, and people management skills were carried out for 1,351 people.

A total of 125 days of training was provided in centrally delivered courses run by the ILGS (85 training
days) and KNUST (40 training days) to build capacity in the planning and management of sub-projects
(planning, engineering and financial management). These centrally-based courses brought DA personnel
together to gain a shared understanding about World Bank procedures and project implementation skills.
In order to contribute to the development of ILGS as a long-term provider of quality training, the Institute
received an administrative fee of 15% of the cost of each training activity that it delivered, which covered
overhead expenses, such as equipment, facilities and operational support. ILGS signed 6 contracts to
deliver courses at a cost of $357,178.

Component 2 ­ Technical Assistance (US$0.92 million PAD; US$0.68 million ICR)
The output under this component is rated as satisfactory.

The studies for the improvement of the financial management systems were completed, and
recommendations were made for improvements in the assemblies' systems. Guidelines and operational and
training manuals were prepared to support the establishment of financial management systems in the
assemblies. The financial management and revenue enhancement subcomponents (including property
revaluation) were to be implemented in the second phase of the three-phased APL program. However, with
the cessation of the program, the MLGRD and DAs have set up a committee to follow up on the
recommendations and solicit support from other donors for implementation.

During the installation of computerized accounting and revenue management systems in eight pilot DAs, it
became clear that the number of transactions was so high that processing was slow and cumbersome.
Moreover, with the accounting system and revenue management system on two different computers there
were problems with reconciliation. The system was consequently expanded to a local area network (LAN),
with the procurement of three additional computers to support the system in each pilot DA. A Revenue
Improvement Action Plan (RIAP) study was also completed and the recommendations adopted by DAs.
Useful recommendations have been made that would enhance not only Urban V project DAs, but also all
other DAs in the country. The recommendations included policy reforms for the revenue departments to
enhance resource mobilization.

Component 3 - Mapping (US$3.43 million PAD; US$3.71 million ICR)
The output under this component is rated as moderately satisfactory.

The start-up of this component, financed by the Nordic Development Fund, was delayed by almost one year
because of the reconstitution of the Central Tender Board after the December 2000 elections. The NDF
Credit was signed two years after the IDA Credit, and the implementation of the component lagged about
one year behind the IDA-financed components. The NDF credit has been extended by one and a half years,
to December 31, 2005, to enable completion of the mapping and capacity building in the Survey
Department.

The targeted coverage for the mapping was 750 sq. km. but about 2000 sq. km. of large-scale maps
(1:2500) will be produced for all 25 towns. The additional 1,250 sq. km. cover the undeveloped areas of
the towns to enable future planning. The maps, which will be delivered in both digital and printed form,
will be used for infrastructure planning and revenue mobilization. The component was implemented by


                                                       - 8 -

both foreign and local private sector contractors under the supervision of the Survey Department. The
planned installation in the Brong-Ahafo regional office of the Survey Department (SD) of digitized plotter
and other facilities to support map maintenance on a pilot bases is not yet completed. Formal training and
refresher courses for the SD staff is also ongoing.

The NDF had approved US$10.83 million for 11 years under the 3-phased Urban V program to support
surveying, mapping and titling for the DAs and the land agencies. This comprised US$3.43 million under
Phase 1, US$3.0 million under Phase 2, and US$4.4 million under Phase 3. Since the Bank decided not to
continue with Phases 2 and 3 of the APL, NDF has also decided not to proceed further. NDF has indicated
that the balance of $0.9 remaining from the procurement could be used for activities that should have been
carried out under Phase 2.

Component 4 - Infrastructure and Municipal Services (US$12.90 million PAD; US$16.51 million
ICR)
The output under this component is rated as satisfactory.

This component was intended to enable each DA to "learn by doing" contract management and
administration by financing at least one infrastructure subproject in each of the 25 towns. Each town has
implemented at least one infrastructure works contract costing about US$250,000 per town, somewhat
more than the original allocation of US$200,000 due to additional works. A total of $6.5 million was
spent on 38 IDA-financed sub-subprojects. These included i) 10 km of access roads and 5 km of drainage
works, ii) rehabilitation of 5 markets and lorry parks, iii) construction of 64 public toilets and rehabilitation
of 9 toilets, iv) extension of water supply services v) improvement of liquid and solid management works,
and vi) construction of slaughter houses. In general, quality of work was satisfactory, and there was regular
monitoring of contractors' and consultants' performance to ensure correct application of contract
conditions. Three contracts, two in Savelugu and one in Agogo were however, terminated for
non-performance. The works were repackaged and re-awarded through selective tendering and have been
completed. All DAs procured consultant services for contract supervision, except for one that used its own
personnel for supervision.

AfD funded roads (US$6.00 million PAD; US$9.42 million ICR). The 50% increase in the loan amount
(Euro 8 million) in US$ terms was due to the depreciation of the US$ with respect to the Euro. The actual
AfD financed road subprojects was US$9.42 million, implemented in 10 of the 25 towns, with an average
final cost of US$800,000 per town. About 28 km of town roads and 5 km of storm drains were
constructed or rehabilitated. AFD funded 100% of the works, and the participating districts funded
supervision services from the DA's matching funding contribution. In addition to funding the road
subprojects, AfD also provided technical assistance to the MLGRD and LGPSU costing US$1 million.
The AfD loan closes in December 2005.

Component 5 - Project Implementation Support (US$1.93 million PAD; US$3.55 million ICR)
The output under this component is rated as satisfactory.
Local Government Project Support Unit: Staff in LGPSU identified weaknesses in the technical
capabilities of DA staff, especially in works departments, and recommended the recruitment of additional
staff where necessary. Staff participated in hands-on coaching on contract administration and
management, construction supervision and management, maintenance planning, scheduling and costing.
LGPSU was responsible for facilitating, managing, monitoring and reporting on project activities. It was
also responsible for procurement of the technical assistance component. Eight professional staff were
originally planned to assist the DAs with implementation (two engineers, two planners, two training
administrators and two finance officers). However, only six were hired. These staff members were initially


                                                      - 9 -

split between the Accra and Kumasi offices, to assist DAs in the southern and northern sectors respectively.
Eventually staff in Kumasi moved to Accra. Three professional staff members from MLGRD were
seconded to the project unit as counterpart funds.

Support to DAs: DAs each received one vehicle, one motorcycle, one personal computer, and US$3,600 for
operating costs. In all, 23 pickup trucks and 23 motorbikes were procured for each of the DAs at a cost of
$0.5 million. Twenty-six additional computers for networking were procured for 8 DAs .

Waste Management equipment: After a request by the MLGRD and DAs, 23 cesspit emptiers, 20 skip
trucks, 20 covered containers and 180 open containers were delivered to the assemblies to assist in the
collection and disposal of DAs liquid and solid waste. The $2 million equipment cost was agreed during
project implementation and the funds were obtained from the amount set aside for second set of
sub-projects and savings from project components. As a condition for the use of funds, MLGRD agreed
that each DA would adopt a maintenance agreement before the equipment was delivered. However, this
condition was not invoked.

Performance Indicators and Triggers

There were fourteen Performance Indicators listed for the project (see Annex 1 B). Four of the indicators
were related to project outputs at the DA level, three were related to output at the project management
level, five were related to planning and management practices expected in place in the districts, and the
remaining two were related to policy reforms at the central government level. All the indicators were
closely related to achieving project objectives. At closing, twelve out of the fourteen target indicators were
achieved, and seven out of nine triggers which had been established as conditions for proceeding to the next
phase of the APL program were met. This achievement would have qualified the project for moving to the
next phase of the Urban V program.

The two targets that were not achieved relate to Operation and Maintenance. The last indicator i) O&M
funds are established for all approved Subprojects, and (b) an initial deposit of at least 3% of Subproject
costs is made (50% by the DA and 50% by IDA) was not achieved because all the subprojects were
completed in the last year of the project. However, the O&M funds were due one year after completion of
the subproject. With respect to the twelfth indicator, Annual routine maintenance budgets for all DA
infrastructure are prepared and are sufficient to cover needs estimated in annual maintenance programs
in at least 60% of DAs), information on all Assembly infrastructure could not be determined to allow
accurate assessment of their maintenance needs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
ERRs were not calculated due to the small size of the sub-projects, the difficulty of quantifying benefits ex
ante the lack of experience at the local level. A methodology for economic analysis of typical sub-projects
was established during the project for the investments that would have been undertaken during Phase 2 of
the APL. However, the subsequent phases have been cancelled to allow for other priorities in the CAS.
The methodology remains available for future urban development projects. Resources are available in the
CAS to assess the linkages of urban and rural development.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:
As reflected in the Training Impact Study (see Section 4.1), many departments in the DAs have been



                                                    - 10 -

strengthened through formal and on-the-job training. Some profited more than others. Groups most
positively impacted were works department, district tender boards, district evaluation teams and the finance
units. Improved intra- and inter-departmental relationships, better teamwork and improved team
performance were also cited as areas where institutional development took place. However, opportunities
to use and to further develop the new skills are not fully in place, and the lack of continuance of the
subsequent phases of the APL may adversely affect the maintenance of skills and the retention of some
staff.

A new Local Government Service Act has been passed to govern the recruitment, retention and
management of DA staff. Its implementation within the DAs will start soon. The project also provided
support to the ILGS through its training and institutional development program. The ILGS has developed
during the project (see Section 4.2). Parliament has passed an act establishing the ILGS to support
managerial, administrative, financial and operational efficiency of organs and units of local government.
The Inspectorate Department of the MLGRD has been strengthened with the procurement of transport and
communication equipment, and reports on the DAs' financial performance are now generated on time.

DAs are in a position to increase their internally generated revenue (IGR) as a result of the training
provided under the project and of the RIAPs and FMS studies that have been carried out. The actual
impact will also depend on the ability of the Government institutions to oversee the revenue generation and
capacity building efforts. The new financial management system introduced in eight pilot DAs already
helped improving their financial performance. Maps to be delivered to DAs will support long term
planning and property revaluation system, and also enable planners, engineers and utility agencies to
function properly.

On balance, the institutional development impact of the project is rated as modest.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
In February 2004, a decision was taken to remove the Urban V program from the CAS 2004 to 2007. This
decision affected the momentum and enthusiasm that the DAs had gained on the project and the preparation
made towards their participation in the next phase of the program. The Urban V program, originally
foreseen under the APL was terminated for several reasons. First the new CAS sought to re-balance
investment lending and budget support operations. Second, the multiplicity of operations dealing with the
district assemblies called for mainstreaming support at this level. Finally, the decision was also taken to
allow the Bank time to take stock of the urban portfolio and consider other priorities, including harnessing
the potential of the urban growth agenda, urban linkages with the rural development sector, and
harmonization with other partners though an ESW on Urban and Cities Growth Study, which remains in
the CAS. This could provide the basis for future initiatives in the urban sector with available funding, and
guide further reforms in urban development and local government administration.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
All the District Chief Executives were changed in 2001 after the new Government took over the
administration of the country at the beginning of the year. The new Chief Executives attempted to change
the priorities that had been agreed upon by their predecessors, causing some delay in implementing
subprojects.

The financial capacities and performance of DAs depended to a great extent on the fiscal relationship
between the central and local governments. However, there was no clear direction from the MLGRD to



                                                     - 11 -

lead the various resource mobilization efforts. This work under the project was assigned to consultants.
More effort could have been made to establish a financial management system satisfactory to Government
and the requirements of donors.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Good progress was achieved on the project despite its effectiveness delays and short implementation period
of three years. This was due in mainly to the work of the implementing agency. Staff coached DA
personnel on contract management. Monthly monitoring meetings improved the performance under the
project. Action was taken to ensure that funds in the DAs' accounts were in order prior to closing.
Though the unit successfully monitored the DAs' accounts, staff of the accounting and engineering
departments did not regularly coordinate their work resulting in weak financial planning and forecasting.

Out of 38 contracts awarded under the project for completion in 6 months, only three were completed on
schedule. The rest were delayed for periods of up to eight months, and three were terminated. Though
there were legitimate reasons for extensions in some cases, generally, there were inadequate incentives for
contractors and supervising consultants to complete construction on time. Contract provisions, such as
liquidated damages, were not enforced, and payments to contractors were sometimes delayed. Attempts
were made to establish monitoring systems to supervise the performance of contractors and consultants, but
this was not adequately followed up on by LGPSU.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$22.30 million equivalent. Out of the cost, US$10.83
million was to be financed by IDA, US$6 million (Euro 8 million) by AfD, US$3.43 million by NDF,
US$0.34 million by GoG, and US$1.53 million by the District Assemblies. At closing, the actual amounts
had increased to US$25.30 million, made up of US$11.23 million disbursed from the IDA credit, US$9.42
million provided by AfD, US$3.6 million by NDF, US$0.34 million by GoG and US$0.59 million by the
DAs.

The increase in project cost was due to: i) the depreciation of the US dollar with respect to the SDR
resulting in a US$0.4 million increase from IDA, ii) an increase in the NDF credit of US$0.17 million (to
US$3.60 million), and iii) an increase in the AfD contribution from US$6.0 million to US$9.42 million due
to the depreciation of the US$ against the Euro. IDA funds were 99.98% disbursed, with only US$1,296
remaining undisbursed, subject to cancellation. The 60% reduction in the counterpart fund contributions
by the DAs was the result of AfD's decision to finance 100% of the cost of road subprojects. The DAs
also deducted a 7.5% tax from contractors' certificates in lieu of matching funds. The actual cost of most
of the goods procurement was below appraisal estimates. Savings were made on procurement of vehicles,
computers, and motor cycles. As stated in Section 4.2, an amount of $1.5 million was set aside for a
second set of sub-projects and savings from project components were used to procure the waste
management equipment. About $850,000 was used from the training budget of $1.3 million.

The DAs operated an Urban V Advance Account in US dollars that received IDA's share of financing for
subprojects, and payments below $50,000 were made from the account. This was the first time DAs
received IDA funds directly in foreign currency. It was designed in this manner to stabilize the purchasing
power of Assemblies funds, as a result of constant depreciation of the Cedi. As it turned out, the Cedi was
relatively stable during implementation, depreciating by an average of 8% with respect to the US dollar.
All 23 Advance Accounts were fully recovered at the closing of the credit.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:



                                                    - 12 -

Despite the curtailment of the Urban V program, the sustainability of the phase 1 of the Urban V program
is rated as likely. There were sustainable improvements in capacity and understanding by DAs of their
roles and responsibilities, particularly in planning, budgeting and financial management, and contract
management to manage their own investment programs. Improved project management was introduced into
the managerial and technical structures of each DA, which in turn has improved the capacity of DA
personnel. No parallel implementation structure was established in the DAs for the project. The staff of
the DAs gained improved understanding of their roles in planning, procurement, contract management, and
revenue mobilization that should endure. However, some staff turnover will occur as a result of low
remuneration. The LGSA (Section 4.1) that will grant DAs the authority to recruit their own staff is in
place, and the Public Services Commission has improved the posting of professional staff to the DAs. The
Controller and Accountant General's Department (CAGD) also trains and posts finance officers to the DAs
and will continue to do so.

Despite problems in the implementation of civil works contracts, private sector contractors have gained
experience through constructing civil works, and the opportunity has been created to involve them in
maintenance. Contractors are now more able to implement the DAs' own development projects. DAs
revenue mobilization has increased under the project. DAs now have the capacity to prepare investment
plans and implement projects, and this is likely to continue with the increase in DAs investment funds.
Grant transfers available to the DAs have also increased substantially in recent years, largely through
District Assembly Common Fund (DACF), donor-assisted projects, Highly Indebted Poor Country (HIPC)
funds and Ghana Education Trust (GET) fund.

The inability of the DAs to establish their own O&M funds does not mean that the financial resources will
not be available for maintenance. Those accounts were expected to be set up one year after the completion
of the subprojects. In fact, most DAs were not in a position to set up the accounts because almost all their
subprojects were completed late in the project period. DAs run their own maintenance accounts, which
should provide some limited resources for maintenance.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project contributed to enhancing critical institutional reforms and activities. ILGS and LGSA are more
fully integrated into the MLGRD and DAs. Most of the project components are under the management of
the DAs. Some of the key elements of the national support system have not yet been sufficiently
internalized by MLGRD, especially the financial management and revenue mobilization aspects. The
Ministry has established a committee to follow up on existing recommendations and to request support
from donors.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance is rated as satisfactory.
The project was originally conceived as a traditional, centrally-implemented project to provide
infrastructure to secondary cities. However, due to the level of capacity in the DAs, it was redesigned as a
three-phased APL. Bank missions introduced a more challenging concept of building implementation
capacity in the DAs, which had limited technical capacity and managerial experience. Sub-projects were to
be demand-driven by DAs and implemented by DAs. The Bank team provided critical expert inputs and
recommendations to the borrower and worked closely with them on all aspects of project preparation.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated as satisfactory.



                                                      - 13 -

There was only one task team leader for supervision during the project, who was based in the Country
office. This ensured continuous follow-up and monitoring of the project. Other Bank staff members from
Washington and the Country Office also contributed to supervision. A contract management specialist
(CMS) was regularly engaged for implementation review to check each contract and recommend
improvements in implementation. The CMS visited at least half of the DAs on each visit and made
recommendations to improve, inter alia, the quality of work of contractors, the quality of supervision, and
the application of the price adjustment formulae. A training specialist was also engaged regularly who
visited DAs and recommended ways to improve the development effectiveness of the component.

The Bank could have done more to prevent the 17 month delay in project effectiveness with better forward
planning of outstanding activities. Although it was an election year, the team should have encouraged the
borrower to appoint the auditor sooner, which was a condition of effectiveness.

The decision by Bank management to discontinue the second phase of the APL three months before the
closing of the project affected momentum in the DAs and the LGPSU. The supervision missions of Phase
1 had originally been planned to coincide with the preparation missions of Phase 2.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Because of the innovative design of the project, adapting earlier urban development experience in Ghana to
a large number of small local governments, and the Bank's consistent follow-up during supervision, the
overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated as satisfactory.
The Government prepared the project in a fairly short time. It shaped a project involving the small DAs
that had not been involved in previous urban development initiatives. The borrower and DAs took up the
challenge to prepare and test an innovative project involving a large amount of outreach to smaller towns
and the innovative APL concept.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
On balance, the Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory.
The project commenced after the change of Government in early 2001. The new Government took charge
at both the DA and Ministry levels, and assigned the project to a new Deputy Minister. New District Chief
Executives (DCEs) were appointed in 2001 at the time of effectiveness, which gave impetus to the project,
but they tried to change some of the priorities of the subprojects. The Government was less committed
during implementation than during preparation. Critical decisions were often left with the implementation
unit, possibly due to the rapid turnover of Chief Directors at the ministry who needed time to become
familiar with the project. There were four Chief Directors during project implementation.

There was an eight-month delay in signing contracts under the NDF credit because Central Tender Board
was not in place to approve the contracts. This delayed the mapping component. The Mid-Term Review
was held only 14 months after effectiveness. At that time deficiencies in the management of the project unit
were identified. An action plan was agreed upon with the Ministry, and monthly meetings were instituted
to monitor progress. The meetings, chaired by the Minister, Deputy Minister or the Project Director
throughout the rest of the project, greatly helped to improve the management of the project. The
Government did well in achieving twelve out of the fourteen indicators, and seven out of nine triggers that
were conditions for proceeding to the next phase of the APL program were met.




                                                      - 14 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing agency's performance is rated as satisfactory.

The LGPSU was stable and had a strong complement of technical and professional personnel. Most of its
staff members had been working on previous Bank-assisted urban projects, and had gained experience by
managing similar projects. It assisted in the preparation of the project, and it provided efficient
management of sub-projects preparation, procurement, coordination and report preparation.
The Mid-Term Review provided an opportunity to improve project management. Delays in recruiting staff
to manage the financial management component had hampered implementation. Although LGPSU was
slow to improve the management of revenue generating sub-projects, LGPSU ultimately overcame this and
other challenges to ensure satisfactory supervision.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Given the support of the Government and the strong technical contribution provided in most facets on the
implementing agency's work, the overall performance of the borrower is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Use of the APL instrument ­ Many development tasks require more years to accomplish than the life of a
typical investment project, and phased instruments are very effective to build relevant institutions, deal with
initial capacity constrains, and cope with changing interests and priorities of borrowing countries. The first
phase of an APL is designed to start a longer-term process and the outcome of an APL program cannot be
realized through a single phase of the program. As it is neither desirable nor practical for the Bank to
engage into irreversible commitments, it could be advisable to establish a comprehensive sectoral program
before the Bank agrees to support a long-term APL. This would ensure that when other partners withdraw,
subsequent phases of the program are not affected.

Linking funds to performance incentives - Linking investment funds to performance incentives to improve
local government capacity through "learning by doing" stimulates competition and increases the chances of
achieving long-term development effectiveness.

Appropriate Team Management - Professionals with backgrounds in financial management and
institutional development should be put in leadership positions at the national level in projects that promote
the decentralization of government service provision and the development of local government capacity.
These disciplines tend to be deficient in many small local governments. The development of these skills
within the local governments is essential for the success of these projects, sustainability of the assets
created, and for long-term development of the urban sector.

Quality and efficiency of construction - There was insufficient performance monitoring and evaluation of
Ghana's construction industry within government. Given that the development of this capacity will take
time, future urban projects, whether locally or internationally funded, should have better built-in
mechanisms to ensure the quality and efficiency of construction (see section 4.2 and 5.2). The procurement
process should start with prequalification of contractors.

Medium-term prioritized programs ­ Sub-projects should be chosen with the participation of the affected
population and should be prioritized by the DAs in Medium Term Development Plans. This will provide
continuity of planning and implementation by reducing the risk of agreed plans being questioned or changed
by successor governments.




                                                     - 15 -

 Consistency and relevance of training programs - Projects assisted by several donors should be
 coordinated at the District level. Training programs by different donors, and even different projects
 assisting the same donor, have contained different approaches to the same subject. It is particularly
 important to avoid duplication and training programs that have tenuous links to the real needs of the
 trainees.

 9. Partner Comments

 (a) Borrower/implementing agency:
 The Borrower's assessment of the project is provided in Annex 8.

 (b) Cofinanciers:

The Technical Support Team (TST) which is implementing the AfD financed road components prepared the
following inclusion on behalf of AfD:

Objective
As co-financiers, the purpose of AFD contribution to the first phase of Urban V project was to finance basic
infrastructure improvement in 10 secondary towns in Ghana to support the overall objective of building
capacity for the participating District Assemblies through the principle of "learning by doing".

Project Components
The pilot roads sub-project in 10 secondary towns covered 25km length of roads and drains selected from the
primary list of 25 towns of the project. AfD funding contribution amount to Euro 8 million, covering; Aflao,
Akim Oda, Asamankese, Berekum, Ejura, Madina, Nkawkaw, Obuasi, Prestea and Yendi.

Implementation Arrangement
Each of the participating District Assemblies engaged the services of Consultant for preparation of detailed
designs, tender documents, evaluation of bids and undertook construction supervision of the roads
sub-projects.

The civil works were fully financed by AFD, while the participating districts paid for consulting services as
their 10% counterpart contribution. In addition to funding of the pilot roads project for the 10 towns, AfD
also provided technical assistance to the Ministry of Local Government Project Support Unit (LGPSU) in the
management of the 10 secondary towns roads project. The Consultants provided a 3-member Technical
Support Team for technical assistance to LGPSU.

Achievements
About 27.5km of town roads and 5km of storm drains have been constructed/rehabilitated in all the 10
towns. Apart from the roads improving the image of the cities, they have significantly enhanced traffic
movement and impact positively on the socio-economic activities of the beneficiary communities. Property
values within the immediate corridors of the roads have gone high, thereby increasing the potential for
revenue of the beneficiary local authorities.

In addition to the above, the DA's role and active participation in the general administration of the contracts
have enhanced their capacity in procurement of goods and services, and in management of projects as a
whole. This achievement is evident in DA's ability to review and approve payment certificates, as well as
DA participation in the day-to-day monitoring and reporting of progress of works.




                                                      - 16 -

Conclusions
The active participation of the DA's in project preparation, selection of sub-projects and the general project
implementation has impacted positively towards achieving the objectives of the project. The technical and
advisory role played by the technical support to LGPSU in the management of the 10 secondary towns
project contributed to the smooth implementation of the project. The role in monitoring the activities of
supervision consultants and contractors as well as reporting for Management information (MLGRD/LGPSU
and AFD) contributed to the smooth running of the project. The role played by the TST was satisfactory and
quite commendable for future projects.

One major set back to the project was payment to consultants that was been borne by the district Assemblies.
Delays in honouring consultant's invoices due to lack of funding affected Consultant's cash flow, making it
difficult to maintain consultants staff at site to management the project. It is recommended that in future, the
consultant's services should be fully borne by project funds and DA contributions applied towards payment
of works.

 (c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


 10. Additional Information




                                                       - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
PI No. 1: Local Government Service Act                 Yes                        Yes
enacted.
PI No. 3: Percentage of DAs where technical          60%                         100%
and financial staff in key posts (District
Engineer, Planner, Financial Officer) are
trained and/or where competent staff have
been in place for at least 6 months.
PI No. 4: Number of District Development            23                          23
Plans updated with adequate community
participation.
PI No. 7: Number of DAs that adopted action        23                       23
plans for implementing improvements in the
billing and collection for the key sources of
revenue.
PI No. 10. Percentage of DAs where the               60%                       91%
annual tax billing rate has increased to total
potential of tax base
PI No. 11: Number of DAs where annual
collection rate of billed taxes exceeds 50%             23                      23
PI No. 12: Percentage of DAs where annual            60%                     n/a
routine maintenance budgets for
infrastructure are prepared and are sufficient
to cover the needs estimated in annual
maintenance programs
PI No. 14:                                           23                      23
(a) Number of DAs with O&M funds                     (a) 23                    (a) 2
established for all approved Subprojects, and        (b) 23                    (b) 2
(b) Number of DAs where an initial deposit of
at least 3% of Subproject costs has been
made (50% by the DAs and 50% by IDA)

1
 End of project
Output Indicators:
                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
PI No. 1: Draft Local Government Service Act               Yes                    Yes
submitted to Cabinet.
PI No. 2: A phased implementation plan                     Yes                     Yes
prepared to implement key recommendations
of study on fiscal decentralisation, where they
relate to local governments.
PI No. 5: Percentage of targeted days of                  70%                      92%
training and coaching actually delivered.
PI No. 8: Number of DAs with improved,                    8                        8
computerized financial and accounting
systems established.
PI No. 9:                                              (a) Yes               a) Yes
(a) Mapping completed for all 25 towns,                 (b) Yes                    (b) Yes
(b) Digital maps prepared for participating             (c) Yes                    (c) No
towns in one region,
(c) Regional staff (8) of Survey Department
trained.
PI No. 13: All sub-projects completed by               38                       38
DAs.

1End of project




                                                         - 18 -

    Annex 1 Table 2  SUMMARY OF PERFORMANCE INDICATORS AND TRIGGERS

 Also a   For           Impact/      Performance Indicator                            Baseline  End of
Trigger  DAs            Output                                                                 Project
                            *                                                                   Actual
INSTITUTIONAL INDICATORS

   ü             Output/ Impact     1. Local Government Service Act enacted               No       Yes

  ü             Output              2. A phased implementation plan prepared to           No       Yes
                                   implement key recommendations of study on
                                   fiscal decentralization where they relate to local
                                   governments

 ü       ü      Impact              3. Technical and financial staff in key posts           60%  100%
                                   (District Engineer, Planner, Financial Officer)
                                   are trained, and/or competent staff are in key
                                   posts in place for at least 6 months in at least
                                   60% of DAs

  ü      ü      Impact              4. District Development Plans are updated in          0         23
                                   all 23 DAs with adequate community
                                   participation

TRAINING

                 Output             5. At least 70% of targeted days of training          0%      92%
                                   and coaching delivered

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

          ü      Output             6. Make assessment of potential revenue                 0       23
                                   sources in all 23 DAs

          ü     Impact              7. Action plans for implementing                        0       23
                                   improvements in the billing and collection for
                                   the key sources of revenue adopted by all 23
                                   DAs

                 Output             8. Improved financial and accounting                    0        8
                                   systems established in 8 DAs

                 Output             9. (a) Mapping completed for all 25 towns;       (a) No         Yes

                                     (b) Digital maps prepared for participating     (b) No         Yes
                                   towns in one region;

                                     (c) Regional staff (8) of Survey Dept. trained
                                                                                     (c) No          No




                                                  - 19 -

      ü          ü     Impact                     10. Annual tax billing rate increases to total      0     23
                                                 potential of tax base in at least 60% of DAs

      ü          ü     Impact                     11. Annual collection rate of billed taxes is       0     23
                                                 over 50% in all 23 DAs

      ü          ü     Impact                     12. Annual routine maintenance budgets for                N/A
                                                 all DA infrastructure are prepared and are
                                                 sufficient to cover needs estimated in annual        0%
                                                 maintenance programs in at least 60% of DAs

    INFRASTRUCTURE SUB-PROJECTS

                 ü      Output                    13. All Subprojects completed by DAs                 0    38

        ü        ü      Impact                    14. (a) O&M funds are established for all        (a) 0      2
                                                 approved Subprojects, and (b) an initial
                                                 deposit of at least 3% of Subproject costs        (b) 0      2
                                                 Iis made (50% by the DA and 50% by IDA)


*Impact Indicators measure the extent to which the Project Development Objectives have been achieved.




                                                                - 20 -

           Annex 1 - Table 3:    Status of Sub-projects and Co-financiers Activities

DA            Town          IDA                                                  NDF         AfD
                            Type of Subproject                     FMS    Area Mapped/Km2   Lnth of
                                                                         Original  Revised  Rd/Km.

Ketu          Aflao         Construction of 2 No. WC toilets                   30       65     2.43
                            Installation of Streetlights
Hohoe         Hohoe         Construction of 2 No. Aqua privies                 30       70         -
                            Construction of U drains and
                            walkways
Kpando        Kpando        Rehabilitation of roads and drains        P        30       95         -
Ga            Madina        Rehabilitation of roads and drains        P        30      145      2.0
Aquapem       Nsawam        Construction of 5 No Aqua privies         P        30       80         -
South                       Rehabilitation of 5 No Aqua privies
Suhum         Suhum         Construction of storm drain and                    30       60         -
                            warehouse
West Akim     Asamankese    Infrastructure improvement in                      30       80      3.5
                            market
                            Rehabilitation of structures
Kwaebibirem   Akwatia       Rehabilitation of roads and drains                 30       70         -
                            Rehabilitation of lorry park
Birim South   Akim Oda      Rehabilitation of roads and drains                 30      100      3.3
                            Construction of 20 No                              30       80         -
Awatu/Efutu/S Winneba       hardstandings
enya                        Supply of waste management
                            equipment
Wassa West    Tarkwa        Rehabilitation of lorry park              P        30       70         -
              Prestea       Rehabilitation of market                           30       50     2.84
Fanteakwa     Begoro        Construction of lorry park                         30       75         -
Kwahu South   Nkawkaw       Construction of lorry park                         30      100      2.5
                            Rehabilitation of roads and drains        P        30       65         -
Asante Akim   Konongo       Rehabilitation of market and lorry
North                       park
              Agogo         Rehabilitation of roads and drains                 30       90         -
Sekyere West  Mampong       Construction of 2 toilets and refuse               30       80         -
                            eva
                            Installation of street lights
Ejura Sekye-  Ejura         Construction of storm drain                        30       70     3.36
Dumase                      Construction of 5 No. public toilet
                            Construction of 1 WC and security                  30       80     2.30
Adansi West   Obuasi        lights
                            Construction of slaughter house
Upper         Dunkwa        Construction of 11 No Aqua privies        P        30       80     2.32
Denkyira
Berekum       Berekum       Construction of 4 toilets and lorry       P        30       80         -
                            park
Wenchi        Wenchi        Const. & Rehab. of public toilets                  30       80         -
Nkoranza      Nkoranza      Installation of street lights                      30       80         -
                            Const. & Rehab. of public toilets
Savelugu/Nan  Savelugu      Const. & Rehab. of public toilets                  30       75         -
ton                         Const. of 7 No. Aqua privies
Yendi         Yendi         Install. of security lights in markets    P        30       80     2.95
TOTAL                                                                         750    2,000   27.50




                                                                   - 21 -

  Annex 1 ­ Table 4:       District Based Training Courses: Summary by Skill Areas and Mode of Training

    District      Total     Development    Engineering /     Financial   Computer Skills Human Resource  Mode of Training
               Attendances     Planning      Contract     Management /                    Management /        Delivery
                    &                      Management        Revenue                     Leadership and  (In Training Days)
              Training Days                               Mobilisation                        Other
              Attend   Days Attend   Days Attend    Days  Attend   Days  Attend   Days   Attend   Days  Outreach    Coaching
Asante         100      61   18       15   28       18     40        8    14      20       0        0      40          24
Akim North
Ejura          251      93   101      15   25       10     40        8    25      50      60       10      80          13
Sekyere        254     131   98       29   46       19     27       13    23      60      60       10     106          22
West
Adansi West    136      72   45       14   30       10     40        8    21      40       0        0      55          17
Berekum        258      54   140      20   10       10     60        6    10      10      38        8      28          26
Nkoranza       263      72   115      15   20       18     60        8    11      21      57       10      41          31
Wenchi         288      76   133      25   35       14     10        3    20      20      90       14      53          23
Upper          353      73   150      20    0        0     73       13    10      20      120      20      65          8
Denkyira
Awutu-Efutu    161      85   87       22    0        0     10        3    14      50      50       10      65          20
Birim South    183      91   90       13   10       18     10        3    13      45      60       12      70          21
Kwaebibirem    89       73   65       10    0        0     10        3    14      60       0        0      70          3
West Akim      333     105   111      10   25       19     62       13    15      45      120      18      92          13
Fanteakwa      122      73   73       20   25       10     10        3    14      40       0        0      45          28
Kwahu South    232      87   88       8    34       18     10        3    18      40      82       18      78          9
Akuapem        152      78   55       15   57       18      0        0    10      40      30        5      62          16
South
Suhum          449     123   95       10    5       10    125       13    24      55      200      35    30+NA       88+NA
Ga             79       43   57       5    12       10     10        3    NA      20      NA        5      40          3
Savelugu       146      94   37       5    15       18     10        3    15      60      69        8      73          21
Yendi          181      44   36       5     0        0     10        3    10      20      125      16      41          3
Ketu           252     118   58       25   25       10     87       23    12      50      60       10      75          43
Hohoe          90       69    0       0    25       10     40        6    NA      50      25        3      66          3
Kpando         224     124   49       17   25       20     35       13    10      50      105      24      99          25
Wassa          85       72   35       21   25       18     20       13     5      20       0        0      23          49
West
TOTAL         4,681   1,911 1,736    339   477      278   809       172  308      886    1,351     236   1,394        512




                                                                  - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                          Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                         US$ million  US$ million
1. Training                                                 1.13           0.85
2. Technical Assistance                                     0.92           0.68
3. Mapping                                                  3.43           3.71
4. Infrastructure and Municipal Services Sub-Projects      12.90         16.51
5. Implementation Support                                   1.92           3.55

Total Baseline Cost                                        20.30         25.30
 Physical Contingencies                                     0.98
 Price Contingencies                                        1.02
                         Total Project Costs               22.30         25.30
                   Total Financing Required                22.30         25.30




                                                 - 23 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               6.31              0.00             9.17             15.48
                                          (0.00)             (5.56)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (5.56)
   2. Goods                                2.78               0.00              0.00             0.00              2.78
                                          (2.76)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (2.76)
   3. Services                             0.00               1.93              0.00             0.25              2.18
   Consultant Services and                (0.00)             (1.83)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.83)
   Technical Assistance
   4. Training                             0.00               0.85              0.00             0.00              0.85
                                          (0.00)             (0.84)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.84)
   5. Mapping                              0.00               0.00              0.00             3.71              3.71
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.30              0.00             0.00              0.30
                                          (0.00)             (0.24)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.24)
       Total                               2.78               9.39              0.00             13.13            25.30
                                          (2.76)             (8.47)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (11.23)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Training                       1.13         0.00                     0.84         0.01                  74.3      0.0
Technical Assistance           0.86         0.05                     0.63         0.04       0.25       73.3      80.0
Mapping                        0.00         0.00         3.43        0.00         0.00       3.71        0.0      0.0     108.2
Infrastructure and             6.45         1.04         5.31        6.32         0.77       9.17       98.0      74.0    172.7
Municipal Services
Implementation Support         1.82         0.10         0.00        3.43         0.13       0.00       188.5    130.0      0.0
Unallocated                    0.57         0.67         0.86                                            0.0      0.0       0.0
Total                         10.83         1.87         9.60       11.23         0.95      13.13       103.7     50.8    136.8




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

ERRs were not calculated due to the small size of the sub-projects, the difficulty of quantifying benefits
and the lack of experience at the local level. A methodology for economic analysis of typical sub-projects
was established during the project for the investments that would have been undertaken during Phase 2 of
the APL. However, the subsequent phases have been cancelled. The methodology remains available for
future urban development projects.




                                                   - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/01/1998                     Team Leader (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              09/27/1999              12     Team Leader (1); Urban
                                             Specialist (1); Program
                                             Assistant (1); Municipal
                                             Engineer (2); Municipal
                                             Finance Spec. (1); Training
                                             Spec. (1); Land
                                             Administration Spec. (1);
                                             Public Sector Specialist (1);
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1); Economist (1).
              01/24/2000                     Negotiations

 Supervision

              01/26/2001                6    Team Leader (1); Civil Engineer       S               S
                                             (1); Municipal Engineer (2);
                                             Sanitation Engineer (1); Training
                                             Specialist (1)
              01/26/2001                2    Team Leader (1); Municipal            S               S
                                             Finance (1)
              05/01/2002                8    Mission Leader (1); Urban             S               S
                                             Finance Spec. (1); Municipal
                                             Engineer (1); Procurement Spec.
                                             (1); Transport Spec. (1); Team
                                             Assistant (1); Contract
                                             Management Spec. (1); Training
                                             (1)
              11/24/2003                6    Mission Leader/Engr. (1); Mun.        S               S
                                             Finance Spec. (1); Urban
                                             Planning (1); Program Assistant
                                             (1); Financial Management (1);
                                             Procurement Spec. (1)


 ICR
              11/19/2004                      Mission Leader/Engr (1);             S               S
                                              Training Spec. (1);
                                              Procurement Spec. (1);
                                              Team Assistant (1)



(b) Staff:




                                              - 26 -

    Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation          28.65                        41,596
Appraisal/Negotiation               39.45                        84,665
Supervision                         75.74                       111,364
ICR                                 10.28                        15,871
Total                             154.12                        253,495




                                         - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Training Impact Study - August 2004
2.   IDA Subproject Implementation Details
3.   District Assembly Revenue Management System ­ Appendix 5 (iii)
4.   Appendix 5 (iii) ­ Operations Manual
5.   Appendix 3 ­ Revenue Management Report
6.   Appendix 5 (i) ­ DA Financial Procedures Manual
7.   Revenue Improvement Action Plan ­ Final Summary Report - June 2004
8.   Revenue Improvement Action Plan ­ for each of the 23 DAs - June 2004
9.   District Assemblies own brief assessment of the project




                                          - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Assessment of the Project

The Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development prepared its own evaluation report, which is
shown below, and contributed data for the Bank to prepare its ICR.

8.1 Introduction

The Urban V project was implemented in 23 District Assemblies from August 2001 to June 2004 (a total
of 35 months), with a four month grace period ending October 2004. This report provides an assessment of
the project from the point of view of the MLGRD and its implementing Agencies. The assessment covers;

a)      The degree to which the project achieved its development objectives as set out in the project
documents;
b)      Other significant outcomes and impacts;
c)      Prospects for the projects' sustainability;
d)      Bank and Borrower performance, including compliance with relevant Bank safeguard and policies
and;
e)      Lessons learned from implementation.

8.2 Project Objectives and Components

The objectives of the project were to:

a)      Strengthen the technical, financial and management capacities of participating DAs in order to
improve the level and quality of local public services provided by DAs and;
b)      Improve access to basic services and infrastructure for urban residents, particularly those in
low-income areas.

These objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of the following 5 main components:

Training: To strengthen the capacity of participating DAs in infrastructure management, maintenance
management, development planning, financial management, revenue mobilization and management.

Financial management strengthening: To enhance the planning, management and resource mobilization
capacities of DAs through the provision of technical advisory services, revenue improvement action plans,
establishment of efficient financial management systems including computerized budgeting/accounting and
property revaluation.

Provision of Maps: To improve the availability of information for planners, engineers, utility service
providers, land valuers, revenue collectors and title registrars.

Municipal Infrastructure subprojects: To improve health and environmental conditions through improved
water supply, solid and liquid waste management, access roads, storm drainage, security lighting, markets,
lorry parks, community infrastructure upgrading and slaughter houses.

Project Implementation support: Provision of technical advisory services including audit, equipment and
logistical assistance for project management.




                                                     - 31 -

8.3 Extent of Achievement of Component Objectives

Training: A total of 2056 training days, representing 93% of target training days, were delivered as a
means of strengthening the capacity of participating DAs in infrastructure management, maintenance
management, development planning, financial management, revenue mobilization and management.
However, only 40% of total training days was provided in subjects related to the key training areas, with
the remaining 60% of total training days being provided for other training, particularly computer skills.
An impact assessment conducted at the end of the project suggested a highly satisfactory result for the
training component. All 23 participating District Assemblies have confirmed that the component has
resulted in " tremendous improvement in the skills of the staff who are now able to perform technical
functions without fear or any complexes".

Self assessment by staff of each district, on the outcome of the training component have been provided and
are available under the project's electronic files.

Financial management strengthening: The objective of enhancing the planning, management and
resource mobilization capacities of the 23 DAs was substantially achieved during the 35 months
implementation period. Some improvement in revenue generation was recorded during the implementation
period for a couple of district assemblies, but it is difficult to ascribe such improvement to the actions taken
under the project since studies to design the improved system were still ongoing. Nonetheless, the existing
financial management systems in all 23 DAs have been studied and recommendations made for
improvement. A major outcome of the Financial Management Study is the awareness created in
participating districts about the inadequacies of the existing systems, and the potential for improvement. It
is expected that DAs who would be able to follow up on the recommendations made would be able to
demonstrate substantial improvement in district financial management by the end of the 2005 financial
year. It is apparent that even though a lot of work has been done during the 24 month study period, a lot of
work remains to be done in respect of the installation of accounting and revenue management software and
the acceptance by the users in the 23 beneficiary districts. Some continuity is required to ensure that
resources so far spent would translate to improvement in management of district finances. In addition, the
Ratification of Revenue Improvement Action Plans by each of the 23 participating district assemblies has
provided a useful framework for each district to strife to achieve targets that could ultimately lead to a
marked improvement in the billing and collection of Internally Generated Funds if funding is made
available for its implementation.

Provision of Maps: This component experienced substantial delays for nearly 2 years, due to delays in
completing the procurement process, one hundred percent increase in the scope of works, and delays by the
aerial photography contractor in commencing and completing the aerial photography contract. As a direct
consequence, the Digital Mapping contract, which depended on the availability of aerial photographs, also
experienced delays. The objective of improving the availability of information for planners, engineers,
utility service providers, land valuers, revenue collectors and title registrars will be achieved. In any case
the decision to discontinue subsequent phases of the 3 phased Urban V program meant that even if the
outputs had been achieved they could not have been utilized as planned. Another drawback of the
component is the substantial amount of the budget allocated for digital mapping that remained uncommitted
after contract award. The unusual large amount of uncommitted funds was the result of the more
competitive contract award process adopted. In view of the long delays in completing the assignment as
well as agreeing on the utilization of the large amount of uncommitted funds, the NDF credit will be
extended further to June 2005 at least.

Municipal Infrastructure subprojects: This subcomponent was successfully implemented in all 25 towns,


                                                      - 32 -

despite protracted implementation delays experienced in nearly all towns. The facilities delivered under this
component are summarized as follows:



  Item                Description                        Qty     Units      Beneficiary Towns/DAs
  Water Supply      Extension of water supply to                            -
                    Markets, Lorry Parks, toilet sites
  Liquid Waste      Rehabilitation of Public Toilets   132 (9)  Seats (No) 3: (Dunkwa, Savelugu Nsawam)
  Management
                    Construction of New Public         1050     Seats (No) 15 towns
                    Toilets                            (64)
                    Acquisition of liquid waste         24      No.        23 DAs
                    management equipment
                    Urinals                             3       No.        3 (Berekum,
                                                                           Akwatia, Yendi)
                    Bathhouses                          3       No.        3 (Berekum,
                                                                           Akwatia, Yendi)
  Solid Waste       Acquisition of Solid Waste         21       No.        21 DAs
  Management        collection trucks
                    Acquisition of Communal            212      No.        23 DAs
                    containers
                    Evacuation of solid waste dumps in 5        No         1 town
                    towns                                                  (Mampong)
                    Hardstandings                       40      No.        2 (Winneba,
                                                                           Asamakese)
  Access Roads      Rehabilitation of Town Roads       IDA 10   Km          16 (10 AFD and 6 IDA)
  and Footpaths                                        AFD 29
                                                       Total 39
  Storm Drainage    Reconstruction of storm drains     5.0      Km         7
  Security Lighting Provision of Security Lights in     3057    No.        25 towns **
                    public places
  Markets           Provision of walkways and drains   6,744     Sq m      1 (Asamankese)

                    Provision of Open Sheds            4        No         1 (Prestea)
                    Provision of lockable stores       60       No.        2 (Asamankese
                                                                           and Begoro)
  Lorry Parks       Provision of paving                60,741   Sqm        6
                    Provision of waiting sheds         12       No.        4 (Berekum, Begoro, akwatia,
                                                                           Tarkwa)
  Slaughter                                            1        No         Obuasi
  Houses


The objective of improving health and environmental conditions through improved water supply, solid and
liquid waste management, access roads, storm drainage, security lighting, markets, lorry parks, community
infrastructure upgrading and slaughter houses are likely to be substantially achieved.

Project Implementation support: This component aimed at providing technical advisory services including
audit, equipment and logistical assistance for project management. The outcome of this component was
satisfactory, despite the several challenges it faced, most of which could be attributed to its design.

With regard to staffing, the LGPSU was to operate with a core team of 8 specialists, 4 in Accra and 4 in



                                                        - 33 -

the field office, including 2 engineers, 2 finance officers, 2 training administrators, and 2 planners who
were to provide technical, institutional development and capacity building support to DAs. The recruitment
of 8 LGPSU professionals was completed in August 2000. Six of the eight staff commenced their
assignment December 1, 2000. Two others who were expected to take up the contract appointment declined
the offer due to delays in confirmation of the appointment. As a result of the inability of two of the selected
staff to take up the appointment, the original proposal to have two sets of offices manned by 4 staff each
suffered a set back at the outset. Nonetheless a field office was established in Kumasi as planned, to cater
for 12 districts in the northern sector, whilst the Accra office was manned by two contract staff supported
by 2 seconded staff from the Ministry. For several reasons, the Kumasi office could not function as
planned. Key among the reasons being

a) The delay in credit effectiveness, leading to delay in establishment of the field office. By the time the
    staff assumed office in December 2000, several project related activities had been performed from
    Accra for nearly 18 months (June 1999 to December 2000).
b) Staff who had been recruited for the Kumasi office had to operate "temporarily" from Accra until the
    credit was declared effective in August 2001 to enable vehicles and other logistics to be procured.
c) Channels of communication had already been established between the 23 DAs and the Accra office.
    Thus, most DAs found it more convenient to continue to deal with the Accra office even after the
    Kumasi office had been established, particularly as telephone communication to the Kumasi office
    could not be established.
d) The Accra office had a well established Filing and documentation system covering all 23 districts
    which could not be easily replicated in the Kumasi. Office.
e) The field office was not given responsibility for managing any part of the Special Accounts, thus
    limiting their role in funds transfer, utilization and management.
f) The 4 staff themselves requested and received the Ministry's approval to be allowed to operate from
    the Accra office to cover all 23 districts.

One officer eventually resigned the position in June 2003, leaving only five staff to complete the
assignment.

With regard to the provision of goods and equipment for capacity building, the following goods were
procured and used to support project implementation, thus enhancing the capacity of MLGRD/LGPSU and
the 23 DAs to oversee the implementation of the other components of the project:

ITEM                                                         DATE RECEIVED
23 No. 4x2 double cabin Isuzu pickups for 23 DAs             Nov. 1, 2002
23 motor bikes for 23 DAs                                    Feb. 2003
6. No. Isuzu pickups for LGPSU                              March 2003
16 PCs (8 for LGPSU and 8 for DAs) plus 2 Laptops            Sept 11, 2002
(for FMS consultants)
15 Additional PCs                                            October 2003
26 Additional computers for networking

8.4 Significant Outcomes and Impacts

The most significant outcomes and impacts were achieved under the training / capacity enhancement
components (such as provision of vehicles and computers) , and the provision of infrastructure under the
subproject components. Performance targets and triggers for these two major components were fully



                                                       - 34 -

achieved ahead of schedule.

8.5 Prospects for Project Sustainability

The probability of maintaining the achievements generated from the project in relation to its objectives vary
from component to component. On a scale of 1 (high sustainability ) to 4 (low sustainability), the
components may be rated as follows:

 Component              Ranking       Remarks
 Training              2            The decision to discontinue subsequent phases of the
                                    project, may affect the sustainability of this component
                                    which achieved impressive results during the first phase.
 Financial              3           The project succeeded in completing the first step of
 Management                         system design. Most districts are unlikely finance the
 Strengthening                      implementation of the systems without the technical and
                                    financial support originally proposed under subsequent
                                    phases of the project.
 Provision of Maps      3           The linkages between this component and other aspects of
                                    the project would be lost because of the delay in
                                    completing the assignment and the decision not to continue
                                    with subsequent phases of the program.
 Municipal              1           This subcomponent, which was introduced as a pilot to
 Infrastructure                     enable DAs "learn by doing" has the best chance for
 sub-projects                       sustaining the achievements generated in relation to its
                                    objectives

8.6 Bank/Borrower performance

The Bank provided useful support during all stages of project identification, preparation and
implementation. The Ministry, DAs and other implementing agencies also performed satisfactorily in
meeting compliance with reporting and audits.

8.7 Lessons Learned from implementation

Two key issues directly or indirectly affected the outcome of the project, as elaborated below:

    a) Project design

    The project was designed as the first phase of a three phased 11 year program, under IDAs Adaptable
    Program Lending instrument (APL). Several innovations were introduced in project design, including
    the establishment of US$ denominated advance account for each of the 23 DAs and the introduction of
    triggers to be met for moving onto phase 2 of the 11 year program. In order that the Advance
    Accounts could be meaningfully applied, it was necessary to allocate at least US$50,000 to each DA,
    bringing the total allocation required in excess of US$1 million. Yet only US$ 600,000 was initially
    allocated for the entire project, thus creating undue pressure on some DAs, and "dormant" funds in
    others. Even when the allocation was eventually increased to US$1.2 million the inexperience of DAs
    in managing the accounts in accordance with normal requirements created severe hardships for the
    central management unit. It is recommended that future designs should either make provision for



                                                     - 35 -

substantial Advance Account allocations, or maintain a single account.

It is also a source of concern that plans agreed with government for an 11 year program was cut short
without satisfactory justification. Such changes create undue problems with planning and credibility
for government and its implementing agencies. As a result of the sudden change, the capacity building
process that was initiated within the 23 participating district assemblies under the phase one project
may have to be repeated later at extra cost. Additionally, investments made towards improvement in
financial management systems of the 23 DAs may not achieve much benefit without the necessary
follow up activities.

b) Consultant and Contractor's Performance

As is the case with several other projects, consultant and contractor performance is one of the most
important factors affecting the delivery of infrastructure services. Experience shows that the
phenomenon is fairly widespread nationally, and therefore requires a well coordinated and
comprehensive approach to address the various factors contributing to the poor performance of
consultants and contractors.




                                                - 36 -

- 37 -

