Report No. PID7973
Project Name                     Ghana-Urban Five Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Urban
Project ID                       GHPE50624
Borrower                         Government of Ghana
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Local Government &
Rural Development
This PID prepared                October 15, 1998
Appraisal Date                   October 1999
Board Presentation               October 2000
1.      Country and Sector Background. Ghana's goals of accelerated economic
growth, improved quality of life for all Ghanaians, and reduced poverty-
through macroeconomic stability, higher private investment, broad-based social
and rural development, and direct poverty-alleviation efforts--have been
reiterated in the 1995 Government report (Vision 2020). Small and medium
cities serve as agricultural marketing and service centers in support of the
rural economy. Inadequate urban infrastructure and services and weak local
government institutions hamper the ability of cities to fulfill their economic
and social functions. Basic infrastructure such as roads, drainage,
sanitation, water supply, transport terminals, and markets, needs to be
improved to set the basis for greater private sector activity in these urban
centers and improve the quality of life of the population. The most important
government policy related to urban development is the recent decentralization
initiative. Under the Local Government Act Service of 1993, Ghana's
metropolitan, municipal and DAs were given the status of autonomous local
governments with legislative and executive powers within their areas, and the
power to prepare and approve annual budgets, raise revenues from taxes and
fees, borrow funds, acquire land and provide basic services and local
infrastructure. The issues of local government capacity at the district level,
including resource mobilization and management for District Assemblies (DAs)
will need to be addressed.
2.      Project Objectives.   The overall development objectives of the project
are to:
(i)     improve basic urban infrastructure and urban services in secondary
towns, especially services benefiting lower income people;
(ii)    strengthen the financial, technical and managerial capacities of
District Assemblies; and
(iii)   improve the financial viability and sustainability of the housing
finance system
3.      Project Description.   The proposed project would include the following
components:
Basic infrastructure improvements in selected secondary towns: Specific
sub-projects in each town are to be prioritized by the DAs against a budget



constraint. The menu of eligible subprojects will include: roads, drains,
water, sanitation, street lighting, markets and public transport terminals.
Capacity-building for District Assemblies: Capacity-building would
focus on the management of urban services and municipal finances. The project
will finance a review of financial capacities of DAs. The modalities for
capacity-building will be determined during project preparation based on this
review and on an assessment of the lessons of experience from ongoing urban
projects.
Housing Finance: Project preparation studies have concluded that the
HFC's mortgage operations would have to double to make HFC a self sustainable
institution. Therefore an infusion of capital from IDA of around $10 million
would contribute to expanding HFCs mortgage operations, providing construction
finance, strengthening HFC to make it a financially viable entity.
4.      Project Financing.   The project is estimated to cost US$67 million of
which IDA will finance US$60 million. The Government of Ghana is expected to
contribute US$7.0 million.
5.      Project Implementation.   The overall project implementation will be
coordinated by the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD).
Given the weak technical capacity among District Assemblies, a Central
Implementation Unit acting on behalf of the DAs and MLGRD would be required.
This unit would procure civil works, studies and goods required to implement
the physical sub-projects. The Home Finance Company would be a separate
implementing agency for the housing component with its own special and project
accounts. HFC would deal directly with the World Bank.
6.      Project Sustainability.   Sustainability of investments depends on:   (i)
ownership of sub-projects by DAs and communities; (ii) availability of
resources for operations and maintenance; and (iii) management capacity at the
DA level, especially for O&M. The project aims to involve DAs and communities
from the preparation and design stage to ensure ownership, and aims to enhance
the management of municipal infrastructure and services. Involvement of
communities and DAs from the beginning will sensitize them to the need to pay
for services where appropriate, and ensure cost recovery.
7.      Lessons Learned from Previous IDA Involvement.    IDA has been financing
urban projects in Ghana for over a decade. Significant progress has been
made: urban roads have improved considerably; waste management systems have
been established and are functional in major cities; a number of upgrading
schemes have been successful; and inroads have been made in municipal capacity
building, although a lot more needs to be done. This project has built on key
lessons learned from four ongoing urban projects (Urban II, Local Government
Development and Urban Environmental Sanitation Projects, and the Public
Financial Management Reform Program) that are performing satisfactorily. The
following issues will be addressed in the proposed project:
Establishing effective institutional arrangements: There is need to ensure
that the agency or unit given the responsibility for project implementation is
also given adequate autonomy to enable it to function efficiently.
Reforming local government staffing policy: The centralized staffing policy
which places authority in the civil service to hire staff for DAs needs to be
- 2 -



changed in favor of a policy that encourages DA participation in decisions
relating to DA staffing.
Concentrating resources for impact: The investments should not be too thinly
spread out so as to make little or no impact on the local economy.
Ensuring adequate operations and maintenance: There is need to ensure that
proper institutional and fiscal arrangements are in place to carry out
adequate operations and maintenance (O&M) of the infrastructure
created/rehabilitated through the project.
Increasing own source revenues through Revenue Improvement Action Plans
(RIAPs): The fiscal health of DAs can be significantly improved by maximizing
local revenue generation through the preparation and implementation of RIAPs
and using budgets as a management tool.
Strengthening capacity of DAs and central government agencies: The
implementation of Government's ambitious decentralization program has been
slow partly due to weak capacity both at the sector ministry and the DA
levels.
Continuing donor coordination: There is the need to continue donor
coordination already started through Resident Mission in Ghana to support the
Government's decentralization program.
Under the proposed project, these past shortcomings will be addressed
8.      Poverty Category.   The proposed project is a poverty-focused
intervention, aimed at promoting higher private investments and poverty
alleviation through improved basic infrastructure in secondary towns.
9.      Environmental Aspects.   The project is rated B. The proposed project is
expected to have a positive environmental impact. The Government's National
Environmental Action Plan (1991-2000) highlights, amongst others, sanitation,
drainage and waste disposal as major issues that need to be addressed on
priority basis. The project will directly address improving drainage and the
management and disposal of solid and liquid waste. The final disposal of
solid waste and liquid waste (human waste evacuated from latrines, septic
tanks and cesspits) is of particular concern in the towns, as the most common
mode of disposal is indiscriminate dumping at "convenient" locations, such
as fringe areas of the town, lagoons, streams, or the sea. The project will
establish disposal sites in a cost effective manner that are appropriately
located and engineered to provide maximum protection to the environment ,
specifically with regard to groundwater, drainage, air pollution and odor.
The project will also establish appropriate operational practices for the
sites. The project will take into account the policies and strategies
undertaken by the Government and other projects in urban environmental
sanitation to ensure the use of appropriate technical options and consistency
in approaches.
10.     Program Objective Categories.   This project would promote higher private
investments , improve basic infrastructure in secondary towns, and deepen the
financial sector, banking, and non-banking sector reforms.
Contact Points:
-3-



InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Jagdish Bahal
Task Manager
(202) 473-4158
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 23, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
- 4 -



