                                                                                     86575
                 International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                          International Development Association
                             International Finance Corporation
                        Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                                      CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                 EDS2000-59
                                                                                March 29, 2000
                                                                                 06:30:47 PM


Statement by Neil Hyden
Date of Meeting: March 30, 2000

                            Ghana: Country Assistance Strategy and Urban V


Ghana has set ambitious targets for itself, including raising and sustaining an economic growth
rate of eight percent. This will require major policy changes and reforms. The CAS should help
the Government do this.

The challenges ahead include sustaining macroeconomic stability, improving governance,
reforming the state sector, and promoting private sector development. The CAS targets these
areas, with triggers that are well defined and very specific. The targets for 2003 and current
baselines provide a model for other CASs. Similar triggers and baselines have not been provided
for actions under Objective 3 (Implementation of the Strategy); while the reasons for this are
understandable, I hope that indicators will be able to be developed over time.

The lending program appears to be well-formulated. The differences in the size of the program
between the low, base and high case scenarios are significant enough to provide real incentives
for continued performance. The lending program is heavily weighted towards the use of APLs
and the adoption of a sector-wide approach. Consequently, the targets and monitoring of such a
large adaptable program will need to be of high quality: the indicators in the individual APLs
should aim to be of the same high standard and specificity as they are in the CAS. It is pleasing
to note that at least for Urban Development Program V this is the case and therefore I support the
proposed credit.

The Government is developing a strategy to reform the cocoa sector. The failure to introduce
reforms in this area has been a problem for many years. While care needs to be taken to manage
the impact of changes on farmers, this does not justify postponing any action. Opening cocoa
marketing to effective competition is desirable to improve efficiency and encourage farmers to
be more responsive to market forces including, where appropriate, by diversifying their crops.
Such actions could, over time, help expand the export base and reduce the vulnerability of the
economy.
I support the CAS and the proposed credit.
