                                                                                                           95253
Results Profile: Latin America and the Caribbean Energy                                                  March 9, 2010




 CLEAN ENERGY FOR THE FUTURE

 Region eyes lower carbon development path




Overview
Successful economic and social development in Latin America and the Caribbean hinges on
the availability of reliable and affordable energy supplies. The International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is working with governments and the private sector
throughout the region to connect more people and businesses to efficient and environmentally
friendly modern energy.

  Full Brief—6 Pages
Energy Matters: Achieving Secure and Clean Energy in Latin America and the Caribbean—
PDF, April 2010


Challenge
Electricity demand and CO2 emissions are expected to
                                                                   More Results
double in Latin America and the Caribbean between 2008
and 2030. Although the financial crisis has temporarily

                                                                   1.2
slowed economic growth and growth in energy demand, it
has also increased the challenge of obtaining infrastructure
financing to increase capacity for future growth. Uncertainty

                                                                   million
in oil markets also has led to deep concerns over energy
security. Development of domestic energy resources is
deemed critical in oil-importing countries, notably renewable
                                                                   People are gaining access to
resources, such as hydro, wind and solar power.                    electricity in rural and peri-urban
                                                                   areas of Peru, Bolivia,
                                                                   Argentina, Mexico, Nicaragua
Other critical issues in the region include: improved efficiency   and Honduras, most by the end
of energy supply and use; increased access to modern               of 2011.
energy, especially in countries with low rates of rural access
such as Peru, Bolivia, Nicaragua and Honduras; and
mitigation of climate change, including reducing carbon
                                                                   MORE INFORMATION
emissions by moving toward low carbon growth scenarios,
especially in larger countries such as Mexico and Brazil. An        World Bank: Energy
additional challenge is to adapt institutional and regulatory       Peru Wind Atlas 
frameworks in the energy sector to meet these new
challenges.
                                                                   PARTNERS

Approach                                                            Global Environment Facility

IBRD customizes its investment and technical assistance for         Inter-American Development
each country around four major elements: energy security;           Bank
clean energy development; energy efficiency; and access to          International Energy Agency
energy. In addition to using its own resources to develop
                                                                    Deutsche Gesellschaft für
these activities, IBRD leverages considerable amounts of            Technische Zusammenarbeit
financing from other sources including the Global                   (GTZ)
Environment Facility, Carbon Finance Funds, the Clean
                                                                     KfW
Technology Fund and Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program (ESMAP) funds for technical assistance.           European Investment Bank

                                                                      Japan International Cooperation
In Mexico, IBRD combines development policy lending,                Agency
investment lending and in-depth analytic work to help
develop the country’s substantial renewable energy potential.
IBRD contributed $650,000 and technical assistance to
support regulation the country’s Renewable Energy Law             
passed in 2008. A $1.5 billion development policy loan,
approved in October 2009, underpins the government’s
ambitious climate change program, which looks to promote the installation of more than 3,000
MW of clean renewable energy by 2012. IBRD also helps improve electricity sector
performance, efficiency and access. In addition, two separate studies have strengthened
planning for, and awareness of, lower-carbon development in Brazil and Mexico.


Results
IBRD is helping to provide new electricity access to an estimated 1.2 million people in rural
and peri-urban areas of Peru, Bolivia, Argentina, Mexico, Nicaragua and Honduras, mostly by
the end of 2011. In Peru, for example, the Rural Electrification Project connected more than
100,000 people to electricity service by the end of 2009 and will provide service to almost
500,000 rural people by the end of 2011.

More than 600 MW of renewable energy capacity (210 MW from wind, 320 MW in small
hydropower, and 70 MW through other technologies), are being installed in the region with
financing by GEF grants, Carbon Finance, and IBRD loans. Results coming from Bank-assisted
activities in Mexico include: the 83 MW and 101 MW La Venta 2 and 3 wind farms; the 12-15
MW solar component of the Agua Prieta solar/thermal generation plant; and provision of
electricity service with solar home systems to 250,000 rural people in the poorest regions of
the country.

In Brazil, IBRD is preparing a project to help six distribution companies serving 3 million people
to reduce losses by 15 percent. In the Dominican Republic, a country plagued by serious
problems in the electricity sector, IBRD helped reduce electricity losses by 14 percent from
2005-2008, through conditions met as part of a $150 million Electricity Sector Reform Loan.

Two studies on lower-carbon development in Brazil and Mexico raised awareness using highly
participative approaches involving multiple high-level consultations with ministries and public
agencies. The studies were presented at the 15th Conference of Parties of the United Nation
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in Copenhagen on December 6-19,
2009.


Toward the Future
The energy sector in Latin America and the Caribbean is expanding investment activities as
well as leveraging analytic work such as the Central American Programmatic Energy Study,
which presents the main challenges and opportunities faced at the national and regional levels,
and the low carbon pathway studies for Brazil and Mexico .  Examples of interventions under
development include the Mexico Efficient Lighting and Appliances Project ($350 million, IBRD
$300 million, CTF $50 million), which aims to enhance the country’s energy security by
increasing efficient use of energy and to support its efforts to mitigate climate change; and the
Electrobras Distribution Rehabilitation Project ($699 million, IBRD $485 million), which aims to
improve the financial and operational performance and the commercial management of six
Eletrobrás-managed Distribution Companies (DisCos) in Brazil by reducing electricity losses,
increasing bill collection rate, and increasing quality of service.

 
Last updated: 2010-04-07
