Report No. 1052a-HA                                                FILE  COPY
Appraisal of First
Power Project Haiti
May 24, 1976
Power and Telecommunications Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit                 Ilaitian Gourde
US$1                 =         Gourdes 5
Gourde 1             =        US$0.20
Gourdes 1,000                 US$200.00
US$1,000             =         Gourdes 5,000
Units and Measures
GWh                          =     Gigawatt hour = 1 million kWh
kWh                          =     kilowatt hour
ton                               imetric ton = 1,000 kg
bbl                          =     barrel - 42 US gallons
km                           =     kilometer   0.62 mile
kW                           =     kilowatt
iW                           =     Megawatt   1,000 kW
kVA k                              kilovolt - ampere
MVA                          -    Megavolt - ampere = 1,000 kVA
kV                           =     kilovolt
V                            =     volt
fT                           =     meter - 3.28 feet
m3                           =     cubic meter
m'/sec                       =     cubic meters per second
Abbreviations and Acronyms
EdH                          =     Electricite d'Haiti
BNLRH                        =     Banque Nationale de Republique d'Haiti
CIDA                        =      Canadian International Development Agency
CONADEP                            Conseil National de Developpement et de
Planification
FAC                          =    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
GIE                          =     Gruppo Industrie Elettromeccaniche per
Impianti All'Estero
ONA                          =     Office Nlationale d'Assurance
SOFRELEC                     =     Societe Francaise d'Etude et de
Realisation d'Equipements Electriques
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF THE FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITT
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                    i
1. INTRODUCTION                                                            1
2.  THE SECTOR                                                             3
The Role of the Sector in the Economy                                  3
Sector Organization                                                    4
Sector Regulation                                                      1
Electricity Consumption and Rural Electrification                      5
Long-Term Sector Development                                           6
Constraints on Sector Development                                      6
3.  THE PROGRAM AND PROJECT                                                9
Program through 19dl                                                   9
Description of the Project                                            1C
Estimated Cost                                                        10
Engineering                                                           11
Project Execution                                                     11
Procurement and Disbursement                                          12
Environment                                                           13
Project Risks                                                         13
.  JUSTIFICATION OF THE PRJJECT                                          114
Sector Objectives                                                     14
Project Objectives                                                   11
Demand and Generation Forecast                                        i5
Least Cost Solution                                                   15
Return on Investment                                                  i6
5.  THE BENEFICIARY                                                       17
Organization and Management                                           17
Management Information Systems and Audit                              18
Performance Indicators                                                18
6.  FINANCES                                                              19
Summary                                                               19
Earnings History. Present Position and Future Financial               19
Performance
Financing Plan                                                        20
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS                               22-23
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Manfredo Linder and Philip Owusu.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






List of Amnexes
1.   Existing Generating Facilities in Haiti
2.   Description of the Project
3.   Demand, Generation and Sales Forecast
4.   List of Industries and other loads waiting to be connected
5.  Wet and Dry Seasons, Energy and Demand Requirements
6.  Least Cost Solution
7.  Return on Investment
8.   Electricity Tariffs in Haiti
9.   Training
10.  Disbursement Schedule
11.   Performance Indicators
12. Income Statements
13. Sources and Uses of Funds
14.   Balance Sheet
15.   Debt Service
16.   Assumptions made in Financial Projections
17.   EdH Organization Chart
18.   Project Implementation Schedule
Map IBRD 121 5






APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Summary and Conclusions
i.        This report appraises IDA's first power project in Haiti, for which
a credit of US$16 million is proposed.
ii.       The beneficiary of the credit would be Electricite d'Haiti
(EdH), an autonomous govermnent agency, entrusted with the responsibility
for the planning, generation, transmission and distribution of electric energy
for public service in Haiti.  EdH's principal facilities consist of a 47 MW
hydro plant at Peligre and 16.3 MW diesel facilities in  the two principal
cities of Port-au-Prince and Cap Haitien. It also operates an estimated
744 MW of installed generating capacity in the provinces. EdH lacks depth
in managerial, technical and administrative skills. The first power project
includes funds for improving the capability of EdH's staff.
iii.      The principal components of the first power project are the con-
struction of a 21 MW medium-speed diesel power station in Port-au-Prince
as well as transimiission facilities, expansion and rehabilitation of the distribu-
tion network and technical assistance.
iv.      The first power project forms part of a two-stage short-term
(1976-81) power development program for Port-au-Prince.   The project (the
first stage) is needed to fill the supply gap and to meet the demand forecast
in the rapidly growing metropolitan Port-au-Prince area through 1978. It
would pave the way for a reduction of Haiti's under-employment through higher
industrial capacity utilization and increased agricultural productivity. Other
objectives of the project are : (a) to reduce losses in the transmission/
distribution network and to improve tranmission capability and reliability of
the existing Peligre hydroelectric system; (b) to strengthen the managerial,
technical and administrative capabilities of EdH; (c) to assist in formulating
a framework for a systematic long-term power development for the whole country;
and d) to make electricity more accessible to the low-income groups.
v.        Total project cost is estimated at US$18 million.  The proposed US$16
million credit would cover all the project's fcreign exchange costs estimated
at US$15 million plus about US$1 million of local cost. The remaining US$2
million of additional local cost would be financed from government contributions.
Over the 1976-78 construction period of the project, the net flow of resources
from the government to the power sector would amount to only US$1.6 million,
inasmuch as payments to be made by the government on account of counterpart for
the project, settlement of outstanding electricity bills, and debt service for
Peligre would be partially offset by EdH's debt service on overdrafts it has
received from the National Bank.



- ii -
vi.       EdH has engaged the services of qualified consultants (SOFRELEC -
France) already accepted by IDA - to assist in engineering, preparation of
bidding documents, evaluation of bid proposals, inspection of equipment and
on-site supervision of construction.  SOFRELEC has ample experience with
similar works, and with its assistance, EdH should be fully capable of suc-
cessful project execution.
vii.      Procurement of equipment and services for the project would be
through international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines,
except for: (a) equipment having an approximate cost of US$200,000 which,
because they constitute modifications or extensions of existing equipment,
would have to be procured from the original suppliers; (b) training
equipment costing about US$100,000, which due to their very specialized nature
would be purchased on the basis of price q-u6tations from at least three
suppliers, and -(c) minor civil works cobstin'g an aggregate of US$400,000, which
would be contracted with Haitian contractors under local procedures
acceptable'to IDA. Because of the need to ha've the fIrst ulniit of t1i- power-
station operating by March 1977, in order to avoid severe power shortages during
the dryjseason, IDA agreed that EdX'co'ud' initiate procurement procedi''d'
the station prior to credit signing. Retroactive financing of up to US$1.12
million is recommended for consultant services  and for down payment on the
station.
viii.      The first power project is the least-cost solution for meeting the
electricity-deffiand forecast in Port-au-Prince through 1978, for all discount
rates up to 20%.          '
ix.        On the basis of the new tariff structure, which,'the Government and
EdH have agreed to implement, the rates of return on investment for the project
and for the two-stage program would be 16.0% and 16.5% respectively.
X.          On the basis of the agreements reached on the recommendations set out
in chapter 7, the proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit
of US$16 million equivalent to the Republic of Haiti. The credit would be'onlent
to Electricite d'Haiti for a period of 25 years including 2 years grace at
8.85% annual interest.



APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
1. Introduction
1.01       This report appraises a power project to be carried out by
Electricite d'Haiti (EdH), Haiti's national power utility.
1.02       The proposed credit would be the first financing of Haiti's
power sector by the Bank Group. Sales of electric power in Haiti have
grown very rapidly in the past decade due primarily to increasing electric
power demand from labor-intenslve industries.  The proposed credit would
be instrumental in ensuring an adequate and reliable supply of electric
power essential for Haiti's economic growth and improvement of the
standard of living of the population. The beneficiary of the
proposed credit - EdH - is a government owned autonomous power company.
It is the only institution entrusted with the responsibility for the
generation, transmission and distribution of electric power for public
consumption in Haiti. It lacks depth in managerial, technical and
financial skills. However, EdH has agreed to carry out a training program
(partly to be financed by proceeds from the proposed credit) to strengthen
its capabilities in these areas.
1.03      The project forms part of a two stage installation program neces-
sary to meet electricity demand in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area
through 1981. It would consist of: a) the installation of a 21 MW
medium-speed diesel engine power station, b) expansion and rehabilitation
of the transmission and distribution network, and c) technical assistance
for engineering and supereision and for training EdH personnel. The project
is needed to meet demand in Port-au-Prince through 1978. It is estimated
to cost about US$18 million with a foreign exchange component of US$15
million, which would be financed by the proposed IDA credit, which would
also finance US$1 million of local costs. Tne remaining US$2 million of
local costs would be financed by the government.
1.04      The decision to undertake the 1976-81 construction program in two
stages results from financial constraints in the availability of both IDA
and counterpart funds and the desirability that EdH strengthen its financ-
ial, technical and administrative capacity before undertaking a larger
investment.
1.05      The Bank is acting as executing agency for a long-term power sector
study financed by the UNDP. This study, together with a study of Haiti's
hydropower potential which is being financed by the Canadian International
Development Agency (CIDA), would identify future high priority projects in
the power sector.   One possible project could be a thermal plant utilizing
lignite deposits that are known to exist in Haiti.  It would not, however,
be possible to await results of the study before reinforcing the
capital's power supply which is already inadequate (approximately 14 MW of



- 2 -
existing loads are yet to be connected to the power system). The govern-
ment accordingly engaged the French consulting firm, Soci6te Francaise
d'Etudes et des Realisations d'Equipements Electriques (SOFRELEC), to pre-
pare the project and recommend improvements in EdH's tariffs and accounting
systems, under terms of reference agreed with the Association in late 197T.
1.o6       This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission,
consisting of Messrs. Manfredo Linder (Engineer), and Philip Owusu (Financial
Analyst), which visited Haiti in November 1975. The report draws on the
recommendations of a feasibility study for the project stbmitted by SOFRELEC.
The section on training (annex 9) utilizes the findings of an IDA preparation
mission,consisting of Messrs. Edward Chittleburgh (Training Adviser) and
Manfredo Linder. which visited Haiti in August 1975.



-3-
2. The Sector
The role of the sector in the economy
2.01      About 80% of Haiti's L.6 million inhabitants live in rural areas.
The principal city, Port-au-Prince, accounts for over half the urban population.
Agriculture is the mainstay of the economy, contributing about 50% of GDP
and providing employment for nearly 80% of the labor force. Because fertile
soil in Haiti is limited, irrigation is very important in increasing agricultural
productivity. At the moment only a small amount of electric power is used
for irrigation pumping, however, agriculture's share of electric consumption
is expected to increase in the future; an  estimated 1.8 MW of electric irriga-
tion pumps are awaiting connection in the Port-au-Prince area alone (see annex
4). Although the industrial and commercial sectors account for only about 30%
of GDP, rapid expansion in these sectors (particularly in light manufacturing,
in construction and in tourism) have been instrumental in Haiti's economic
growth in the past few years. Rapid growth in the industrial sector was accompa-
nied by high growth in electric power consumption. Between 1970 and 19Th when
industrial output increased at a rate of about 15% per year, industrial power
consumption grew at an average annual rate of about 20%. The growth would probably
have been higher had there not been power shortages; an estimated 11.3 M of
industrial capacity is idle while'waiting to be connected to the power electric
system (annex 4).
2.02      The Government's 5-year development plan for the period 1977-1981
currently in preparation is expected to emphasize (inter alia):
-  increases in capacity utilization in the manufacturing sector;
- reduction in urban underemployment through expansion of labor
intensive industries;
- expansion of tourism;
- increases in agricultural productivity through rehabilitation
and expansion of existing irrigation networks; and
-  achieving a balanced regional development through the establishment
of growth centers outside Qf Port-au-Prince.
- increase in educational opportunities and health services.
Provision of the supporting infrastructure necessary to achieve these objectives,
would continue to place a heavy demand on the electric power sector for the
rest of this decade.
2.03      Haiti is not particularly well endowed with indigenous sources of
energy. Three known deposits of lignite exist in Maissade, Camp Perrin and
L'Asile. Little is known about the extent, facility of mining and suitability
for electricity generation or other uses of the deposits. The ongoing UNDP.
financed preinvestment study of the power sector in Haiti (para.2.15) will
determine the feasibility of using these deposits for power generation and/or
alternative uses such as domestic heating. Haiti has no other known resources
of fossil fuels and the possibilities of geothermal deposits appear remote.
2.0%      Haiti's hydroelectric potential has not been quantified but it is
known that the resources are limited. The Canadian International Development
Agency (CIDA) has engaged consultants to carry out a comprehensive study of
the hydraulic resources of Haiti. This study is underway and includes a
survey of potential hydroelectric plant sites. The results of this study will
be taken into account by the consultants carrying out the long-term preinvest-
ment study of the sector mentioned in paragraph 2.15.



- LI-
2.05      CIDA is also assisting the Government in the development of an ins-
titutional framework for energy sector planning. Because of Haiti's limited
known energy resources it should pay particular attention to the development
of sound energy policies, especially with regard to pricing.
2.06      The main source of commercial energy is imported petroleum
derivates. The estimated consumption in 1975 is 1,270,000 barrels of which
about 32% is consumed by two main industries - bauxite and cement - 27% by EdH
and 20% by transport, the remaining 21% by other small industries and commercial
aviation. In 194, the government signed a contract with an American petroleum
company (Wendell Phillips Petroleum Co.) to carry out oil explorations in Haiti.
During the last two years, this company has shown,  by using indirect methods
(geophysical and seismic surveys),that oil could be found off-shore near Port-
au-Prince. The government expect's to sign another contract, possibly with
another American company, to carry out the necessary drilling to determine the
feasibility of commercial oil production.
2.07      Sugar cane bagasse is used by the sugar factoriesas fuel in their
own internal manufacturing processes.  Charcoal, produced from high valued
trees (e.g. mahogany) which in the past have been felled indiscriminately,
is an important source of energy for domestic use.   No known statistics
exist regarding the quantity of charcoal consumed annually but one disastrous
consequence of the felling of trees has already been encountered, i.e.,
land erosion and the exhaustion of considerable areas of once productive
land.   The use ofX lignite for domestic fuel could, therefore, have important
beneficial implications on agricultural production by reducing or even
eliminating this problem of land erosion.  A UNDP-financed study underway
will recommend a policy of reforestation to the Government.
Sector Organization
2.08      Electricite d'Haiti (EdH), an autonomous government agency, is the
sole entity entrusted with responsibility for planning, construction, operation
and marketing of electric power services in Haiti. EdH was established by pre-
sidential decree in 1971 to take over the government owned Peligre hydroelectric
plant and the assets of a private company (Compagnie d'Eclairage Electrique)
whose concession expired in that year. Its basic law states that the genera-
tion, transmission and distribution of electric power are a state monopoly
to be exercised through Electricite d'Haiti.  However, because EdH had its
hands full with day-to-day operations of the Peligre dam and the diesel facili-
ties in Port-au-Prince and in Cap Haitien (the second largest city),
facilities in the provinces continued to be constructed and operated
by other government agencies (e.g. the Insitute for Agricultural and Industrial
Development, the Ministry of Public Works) and private entities until 1974.
EdH has now formally assumed nominal control of practically all public service
electric power facilities in the country. (see Annex 1 for a description of
existing facilities in Haiti).
Sector Regulation
2.09      The authority to regulate the power sector is vested in the President
of the Republic of Haiti and exercised through key Ministers who also form EdHl-'s
Board of Directors. The board consists of five ex-officio members: the Minister
of Public Works, Transport and Communications who acts as Chairman; the Minister
of Finance and Economic Affairs; the Minister of Commerce and Industry, the Pre-
sident/General Manager of the National Bank; and the Executive Secretary of the
Planning Council. There is no separate regulatory body as such and EdHIs basic law



states that tariffs as well as investment programs and borrowings are to be
approved by the President of the Republic (with the advice of the board). Whereas
this arrangement is somewhat unusual for a power company, it has worked in a
satisfactory manner.
Electricity Consumption and Rural Electrification
2.10      As shown in the following table, the industrial sector is presently the
largest consumer of electricity in the Port-au-Prince area. The bulk of the
growth over the next few years is expected to come from this sector;
residential consumption (presently the second largest category) is expected
to grow at only 3% p.a. (annex 3):
Actual        Projected        Projected
1974t          1978             1982
GWH       %    GWH1        %    GWH 1
Residential                     30     33.5    33.9    16.6    38.1       13.6
Industrial                      39.7   44.2  13h-.o    65.8   194.5       69.2
Commercial & Hotels              8.6    9.6    15.2      7.5    23.0       8.2
Public Lighting                  5.3    5.8    12.6      6.2    15.i       5.4
Other                            6.3    6.9      8.0     3.9    10.2       3.6
Total                89.9  100.0  203.7  100.0   280.9    100.0
2.11      From the information available, in July 1975, about 27,000 households
in the whole of Haiti were connected to public service electric energy. About
26,000 of these households are in the Port-au-Prince metropolitan area.  Con-
sidering 5 persons per family and with a population of 630,000 inhabitants for
the metropolitan Port-au-Prince area and 4,600,000 for the country, 21% of the
population in Port-au-Prince was served by EdH. For the country as a whole the
percentage served was 2.9%. The percentage of the urban population with access
to electricity is lh.4%. No exact data are available for the rural population
but the percentage of population served is certainly less than 1%. The average
annual consumption per capita of electric energy in 197h is only 28kWh,(of whlch
about 20 kWh correspond to public services and about 8kWh to captive generation)
which is among the lowest in the world.
2.12      The figures given above speak for themselves.  Haiti is one of the least
developed countries, and the electric energy sector is no exception.  The reason for
the low level of electricity consumption is the extreme poverty of the popula-
tion revealed by the GNP per capita of US$130 in 1973 which makes Haiti the
most impoverished nation in the Western Hemisphere-and one of the 25 poorest
nations in the world.
2.13       There is no comprehensive rural/low-income electrification policy
and EdH has no special programs to encourage connections and increase consumption
except that it charges no connection fee for residential consumers.  However,
a project financed by the Federal Republic of Germany (see para. 3.01)
will provide rural electrification for the Gonaives region. Haiti will continue
to be characterized by extremely low consumption of electricity. The projected
per capita (public service) consumption in 1982 would be 50 kWh (compared
to 150 kWh for Honduras and 190 kWh for Ivory Coast in 197h).



-6-
Long-Term Sector Development
2.14      To date the Governmient has not developed a formal electrification
policy. On several occasions information on purchases of generation facilities
for the provinces has been conveyed to EdH after the fact which reflects the
lack of national coordination of the sector.
2.15      The Bank is acting as Executing Agency for a Study of the Power
Sector financed by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) which would
be the basis of a coordinated development of the sector. The main objectives of
the study (which started in January 1976) are;
a)  Research on lignite deposits to ascertain the possibility of
their utilization for electricity generation and/or other uses
such as domestic fuel;
b)  Review of the CIDA reports (para. 2.04) to select the feasible
hydroelectric generating projects to be included in the power
expansion plan;
c)  Prepare a power market survey of the whole country; and
d)  With the information of a), b), and c) above, prepare a least-
cost program for power generation and transmission for the entire
country for the period 1982-1995.
Constraints on Sector Development      -
2.16      The- sector development program over the period 1976-1981 is a
relatively ambitious one. Inasmuch as EdH is still at the early stages of
development there are several potential bottlenecks that may constrain sector
development. Notable among these are:
a) Lack of sector coordination;
b) Skilled manpower constraints; and
c) Inadequate finances.
2.17      Notwithstanding the fact that EdH has assumed formal control of electric
power installations in the provinces, de facto control is still diffused among
several agencies. Installation of equipment in the provinces still continues
without the benefit of any centralized master plan or control. Coordination
and standardization of the sector would improve when the recommendations of the
UNDP long-term study (para. 2.15) are implemented.  Meanwhile, efforts must be
made to prevent fragmented development of the sector and to facilitate orderly
consolidation of EdH's authority.  As a first step in this direction, the govern-
ment and EdH have agreed to formulate a power sector investment program based
on the recommendations of the UNDP study not later than September 30, 1977. To
give IDA an opportunity for closer review of power sector construction programs,
the Government has agreed that during the project's execution no other construction
expenditure exceeding US$1.5 million would be undertaken, in any one year, without
prior IDA approval. The Govermnent has also agreed to consult and exchange views
with the Association before undertaking or permitting EdH to undertake any



-7-
investment in the power sector exceeding the equivalent of US$2 million, after
the completion of the project.
2.18      Both the long-term TJNDP study and the project have training compo-
nents aimed at improving EdH's managerial, technical and administrative capac-
ity. The UNDP study includes provision for training: (a) eight engineers in
generation, transmission and distribution operation and maintenance; (b) two
engineers in planning; and (c) two qualified accountants in budgeting, cash
flow projections, etc.  The project includes the training of EdH staff in
the implementation of the new accounting system (para. 5.07), and also the
creation of a training center for EdH to train electricians and mechanics,(see
annex 9). The Goverrnment and EdH confirmed their intention to carry out these train-
ing programs and to implement measures (employment contracts and financial incen-
tives) to ensure that the engineers and accountants trained under the programs
remain with EdH  for a reasonable period of time.  The problem of skilled
manpower shortages will improve with time, but, until a reasonable number of
qualified EdT staff is attained, considerable technical assistance will be
needed.
2.19      Given Haiti's foreign exchange difficulties and competing claims
on government budgetary resources by other sectors, the ability of the power
sector to carry out its development program will depend greatly on timely
inflows of concessionary external aid as well as EdH's ability to generate
counterpart funds from its own resources. The high level of energy losses
in EdH's system (33% of net generation in 197T) will have to be reduced and
tariffs raised moderately to enable EdH to become independent of government
resources.
2.20      Electricity losses are high both in absolute terms for Haiti's com-
pact system and in relative terms compared to countries in the region and else-
where at similar stages of development! (Honduras 14%, Guyana 18%, Senegal 15%).
They are attributable to deficiencies in EdH's facilities which the project will
help correct and to a high level of theft. The latter is due to a lack of
adequate legislation and inspection procedures (which should be backed by appro-
priate legal enforcement) and to deficiencies in EdH's tariff structure. The
need for measures to reduce theft was discussed with the government during project
preparation and satisfactory legislation has now been implemented.  A program
which would permit EdH to achieve the targets for reduction of losses set forth
in Annex 11 was agreed and will be monitored during project execution.
2.21       EdH's present tariff structure does not reflect the improvements in
rate-making which have taken place in other countries in recent years. In the
course of project preparation the Association and SOFRELEC have formulated
recommendations on restructuring EdH's tariffs which are detailed in annex 8.
Implementation of these proposals will:
a) Reduce the incentive for theft by low-income consumers;
b)  Improve the utilization of EdH's installations, thus reducing its
investment requirements and improving its economic return; and
c) Penalize levels of consumption by residential consumers in excess
of a minimum sufficient for household lighting and a few
simple appliances.



- 8 -
2.22         During negotiationt the Government and EdH have confirmed their
intention to:
a)    implement,not later than October 1, 1976, the new electricity
tariff structure and levels,as shown in attachment 2 of annex 8,
for the metropolitan area of Port-au-Prince;
b)    implement, not later than October 1, 1977, a national tariff
structure and levels following the example of the tariff
structure mentioned in (a) above;
c)    seek the concurrence of the Association before implementing
any changes in tariffs prior to December 31, 1983.



- 9 -
3. The Program and ProJect
Program through 1981
3.01       EdHts power construction progran through 1981 includes:
i)   For the Port-au-Prince region
a) The installation of approximately 42 MW generating capacity
(medium-speed diesel);
b) The construction of a 69 kV transmission/distribution ring
around Port-au-Prince;
c) Extension of 115 kV substations and lines;
d) Construction of new substations 115/69/12.47 kV and 69/4.16 kV;
and
e) Rehabilitation and extension of existing distribution networks
and substations.
ii)   For the isolated regions
a) A 2.5 MW hydropower plant to supply power to Gonaives and the
Artibonite region and associated transmission and distribution;
and
b) Extensions to meet growing demand on the existing diesel power
plants in other isolated districts of the country.
iii)   For the country as a whole
The construction of the works recommended by the long-term UNDP
financed power sector study under way (para. 2.15). These works
could be either hydro-plants, lignite-fired steam plants, con-
ventional oil-fired steam plants or diesel plants plus the as-
sociated transmission and distribution works.
For financial planning purposes, these works (which are estimated
to cost US$65 million) have been grouped into four packages.
a) The proposed IDA project,  which is detailed in para. 3.02,
comprises works for the Port-au-Prince region (included in
(i) above) to be initiated prior to 1978.
b) The works in Gonaives and the Artibonite region (Gonaives
project - (ii)(a) above) which are to be financed by the
Government, which will on-lend to EdH a part of the proceeds
of a loan from the Federal Republic of Germany to cover the



- 10 -
foreign cost (US$3.1 million) and make contributions for
the local coat (US$0.8 million).
o) The second stage of the program recommended by SOFRELEC
for the Port-au-Prince region (para. 1.03 and (i) above)
for which financing will have to be secured in 1978, and
which is expected to cost IS$18.5 million.
d) Other works, described in (ii)(b) and (iii) above, to be
financed by EdHts internal cash generation and future
financing which will have to be arranged in 1978-79.
Description of the ProJect
3.02       The First Power Project consists of the following items.  (See
annex 2 for a detailed description of the works):
a) A medium-speed diesel engine power station with a capacity of
21 NW;
b) Transmission, distribution works and other works;
i) 21 km of single-circuit 69 kV transmission line;
ii) 5.4 km of double-circuit 115 kV transmission line;
iii) Upgrading of 4 km of existing 12.47 kV line to 69 kV line;
iv) Extension of an existing 115 kV substation and construction of
new 115/69/12.47 kV and 69/4.16 kV substations;
v) Extension and rehabilitation of existing distribution net-
works;
vi) Improvements to obtain higher reliability of the transmission
system interconnecting the Peligre hydropower station with
Pbrt-au-Prince; and
vii) Construction and equipping of a training center.
c) Technical assistance for engineering and supervision and for
training of EdHts personnel.
Estimated Cost
3.03       The project's estimated cost is about US$18 million equivalent with
a US$15 million foreign component. The estimated cost is based on a firm
offer for the diesel power plant (see para. 3.09), and recent quotations
from manufacturers, as known to Bank staff and SOFRELEC, for the rest of the
equipment. These prices correspond to end-1975 figures. The costs are
summarized below:



- 11 -
Local   ForeiJn   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
(thousands of Gourdes)       (thousandp of U7W?
Power station                    9,150   41,910    51,060    1,830   8,382    10,212
Transmission, distribution
and other works                 3,850   19,485    23,335       770   3,897    4X,667
Engineering and supervision       -        4,650     4,650    -          930       930
Training                          _          215       215    -           43        43
Base cost estimate            13,000   66,260    79,260    2,600  13,252    15,852
Physical contingency             1,115    5,785      6,900       223   1,157     1,380
1h,115   72,0h5    86,160    2,823  1h,h09    17,232
Price contingency                   590    3,410      ,000       118     682       800
Total project cost            14,705   75,455    90,160    2,941  15,091    18,032
3.04      Physical contingencies for the power plant were estimated at 8%, which is
adequate as this part of the project has been completely defined.  No price
contingency was considered for the power plant as EdH is planning to sign the
contract on a firm-price basis. Physical contingencies for the other project
components were estimated at 10% and price contingencies, for both local and foreign
expenditures, at 9% for 1976,E% for 1977 and 1978.
Engineering
3.05      As noted in para. 1.05, the project was prepared by SOFREIEC, which was
also responsible for engineering and procurement of the power station. EdH will
continue to employ SOFRELEC for engineering, preparation of bidding documents for
international competitive bidding, evaluation of bid proposals, inspection of
equipment and on-site supervision of construction. The consultants' services have
been estimated at 160 man-month with an average cost of US$5,h50 per man-month
which covers base salaries plus overhead. About US$60,000 have been estimated
for travel (both to Haiti and to Washington), use of computer time and telephone and
telex expenses. The consultant_will also train EdH's accounting personnel in using
the new accounting system, budgeting and control procedures, etc. (see annex 9) and
in general train EdH's technical staff by on-the-job supervision of the erection of
distribution networks (para. 3.06).
Project Execution
3.06      The project will be carried out as follows:
a)   EdH will be responsible for the execution of the project, using SOFRELEC
for the engineering and supervision of construction (para. 3.05);
b)   Local contractors will be employed for minor civil works, such as the
command centers for the substations, training center, and foundations
of substations, but no local expertise exists for the construction of
transmission lines which will be constructed by international firms.
The distribution systems will be constructed by EdHIs own forces who
will be trained and suTnervised by SOFRELEC!s resident engineers.



- 12 -
c)   The diesel power plant will be constructed on a supply-and-install
basis by the suppliers, under the supervision of SOFRELEC.
3.07      The estimated completion date is December 2977.  However, the first
of the diesel units should be in service by March 1977. The project implemen-
tation schedule was confirmed by EdH during negotiations, and is shown in
Annex 18. It will be used to monitor progress during the execution of the
oroject.
Procurement and Disbursement
3.08      International competitive bidding, in accordance with the
Association's Guidelines for Procurement, will be used to procure all goods
and services (other than consulting services) for the project except for:
(i) US$100,000 of training equipment of a specialized nature which would be
purchased on the basis of price quotations from at least three suppliers;
(ii) about US$200,000 of special equipment (protection, control, and telecom- 
nun4cations) which are modifications or extensions of existing equipment, and
have to be procured from the original suppliers; and (iii) minor civil works
(not exceeding in the aggregate US$hoo,0o0), which would be on the basis of
local competitive bidding awarded in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association. No preferential:margins would be offered to local manufac-
turers of contractors since none of project equipment is manufactured in
Haiti and local contractors would only qualify for the minor works in (iii)
above.
3.09      The estimated cost of engineering services rendered by SOFRELEC
from the date it was hired to prepare the project (February 24, 1975) until
the date of credit signing is US$500,000. Because their feasibility study
demonstrated the need to install the power plant as soon as possible, SOFRELEC
recommended and EdH and the Association agreed, that international competitive
bidding for the plant be initiated in December 1975. Bids were received in
February 1976, and a letter of intent was issued on May 7, 1976, to the
lowest evaluated bidder, a consortium headed by 3rown Boveri of Germany.
Edi (with the Association's concurrence) intends to sign the contract in
early Jure 1976, in order to have the new power plant completed by end-1977
snrd the first units on line by March 1977.  EdH will have to make down payments
totallinz  US$620.000 on this contract.   Retroactive financing is therefore
recommended up to an amount of US$1.12 million (7 of the proposed credit),
for expenditures made after February 1, 1975.
3, 1)     Dibsoursement would be made For:
a)   100ou  of foreign exoendit-u-es or '   of total cost (with the exce-tlion
of the nurchase of the necessary- land) of the diese, ower olant-,
;b )   1Qo, of foreign exnenditures or 85< of totl cost of the transmiss on,
distribut :on snd other works;



- 13 -
c) 100% of the CIF cost of imported equipment and materials;
d) 100% of the foreign exchange cost of conultant services.
Estimated credit disbursements are shown in annex 10.
&ivironment
3.11       The physical location of the proposed diesel power plant is in the
vicinity of the induatrial park and sufficiently far from existing or plamned
residential developments. With specifications concerning maximu sulfur
dioxide emision, maximum noise level, and thermal pollution as suggested by
the Association included in the contract documents the plant is not expected
to have adverse consequences for the environment. With regard to the proposed
new transmission lines, EdR and SOFRELEC intend to take care in routing these
lines in order to minimize the visual impact.
ProJect Risks
3.12       EdH is a young institution with very few capable engineers (see
para. 5.05) and difficulties could arise during the execution of the project
due to EdH's lack of experience in carrying out projects of this type. To
minimize these risks, SOFRELEC will permanently supervise the execution of
the project and the Association will madntain frequent oontact with EdH and
SOFREC.



- 18 -
1. Justification of the Project
Sector Objectives
4.01       The Association's objectives in lending for electrical power develop-
ment in Haiti are:
a)  To achieve rational sector development and the possible use of indigenous
energy resources on the basis of the recommendation of the long-term
preinvestment study, currently being carried out with UNDP financing
(para. 2.15);
b)  To strengthen EdH by:
i)  helping EdH's management to set up and coordinate  necessary and
urgent training programs for its personnel;
ii)  stimulating the Government to allow EdH to become financially
independent both by fixing adequate levels of tariffs and by
reducing theft of electricity and collecting past government
debts; and
iii) suggesting necessary changes in the organizational structure to
permit more efficient management.
c) To improve the standard of living of the urban poor of Port-au-Prince
by:
i) stimulating the Government to adopt a more socially oriented tariff
structure and therefore give safe access to electricity to a
greater number of urban poor households;
ii) permitting the connection to the Port-au-Prince electric system
of labor-intensive industries.
4.02       An adequate and reliable supply of electric power is essential to Port-
au-Prince's and Haiti's economic growth and the improvement of the standard of
living of the population. As noted in para. 2.10 industry is the largest consumer
of electricity and will continue to be so. The availability of electric energy
in the Port-au-Prince area will permit the installation of more labor intensive
industries which will provide needed employment opportunities for the
growing number of unemployed. In addition pump irrigation will permit
higher agricultural production and jobs.
Project Objectives
1.03      Besides assisting the Government and EdH to achieve the above mentioned
goals and serving as a basis for possible further assistance, the project would
provide facilities to expand Port-au-1Tince generating, transmission and distribution
capacity and thus meet the future demands for electricity in that city (especially
during the dry season). The project would also reduce losses and improve the
quality of service.   Additionally the project would be instrumental in increasing
the number of lower income households that have access to electricity (para. 101 c).



-15 _
Demand and Generation Forecast
4.04       Annex 3 gives details for energy generation and maximum demand for
the Port-au-Prince area on an annual basis for 1971 through 1990, as prepared
by SOFRELEC. This projection is based on a detailed analysis of the historical
growth rates of the different consumer categories, on the industries already
installed and waiting to be connected (see annex 4), and on information gathered
at EdH, and the different Ministries. These demand projections also consider
a decrease in losses from the present value (1975) of 32% of total net genera-
tion to 16% in 1982, made possible by the program to reduce theft (para. 2.20)
and the improvement in the distribution system of Port-au-Prince as a result
of the project. The forecast calls for an average annual increase of genera-
tion of 9.6% from 1975 through 1990 (12.5% from 1975 through 1982).
Maximunj demand is projected to increase with an annual average of 9.17o
and 12% for the same periods. The corresponding annual average growth rates
of sales are projected to be 11.1% and 15.3% for the same periods. The dif-
ferences in the growth rates of sales and generation are due to the projected
decreases in losses as described above. Actual,sales in 1975 were substantially
the same as the level predicted in the forecast which was prepared during the
first half of 1975. However, the forecast, especially on a long-term basis,
contains various uncertainties due to:
a) The difficulties in forecasting the consequences of the proposed
new tariff structure and level on demand. This is especially
true when assessing the effect of lower residential tariffs for
the low-income groups and higher residential tariffs for high
income groups; and
b) The impossibility of forecasting precisely the number and type of
new industries to be installed in Haiti in the future.
EdIH has agreed to revise the forecast every two years through 1983. This would permit
EdH to-def-ine- more- precisely th- generat-ion facilities necessary after 1977,
i.e., the second stage of EdH's expansion program for the Port-au-Prince area.
1405       Haiti's hydrological conditions show a very clear difference between
the rainy season - May through October - and the dry season - November through
April. Annex 5 shows the necessity of an additional 20 MW of generating capac-
ity to meet maximum demand needs at the end of the dry season of 1978, and
also shows the need for 20 MW additional generating capacity to meet
both energy demands and peak demands at the end of the dry season of 1982.
Annex 5 also shows that there will be a deficit of generating capacity in
1977, which justifies the proposed retroactive financing for earliest contracting
of generating equipment (para. 3.09).
Least Cost Solution
4.06       In the study prepared by SOFRELEC a comparison was made between medium
speed diesel engines burning fuel oil, gas turbines of 7.5 MW and 15MW unit capacity
and gas turbines associated with conventional steam plant, using  crude oil
prices of US$7, 9 and 12/barrel CIF. As shown in annex 6 the medium-speed
diesel engines are the least cost solution for discount rates up to 20%.



_ i6 _
4.07       In analyzing the transmission works included in the project it was
found that where alternatives existed those selected were the least cost
solution for discount rates up to 35%.
Return on Investment
4.o8       Two calculations of the rate of return, defined as the discount rate
which equalizes the stream of expected benefits with associated costs were
carried out as detailed in annex 7.
a) The first calculation refers to the project to be financed by the
proposed credit. The rate of return on the project investment is
16.0%  which compares favorably with the estimated opportunity
cost of capital in Haiti; and
b)  The second refers to the total investment program as proposed by
SOFRELEC necessary for the Port-au-Prince area up to the year 1982
when it is expected that the works to be recommended by the UNDP
financed long-term preinvestment study could come on line. The
rate of return of the program investment is i6.-5%
4.09       The revenues were calculated using the average revenue  per kWh that
would result with the implementation of the new tariff structure and levels
(see annex 8).
4.10       The economic rate of return is undoubtedly higher to the extent that
the revenues do not reflect the full economic benefits resulting from the project
(para. 4.02). Because tariffs for low-income consumers will be relatively low,
the revenues do not reflect the social benefits resulting from greater access to
electric energy for the urban poor.
4.11       The sensitivity analysis in annex 7 shows that the rates of return
would be 14.O% and 14.2% respectively if investment and operating costs were
assumed to rise by 10%.



-  7-
5. The Beneficiary
5.01      _1he beneficiary of the credit would be Electricite
d'Haiti (EdH). EdH is a state-owned autonomous agency entrusted with the
sole responsibility for providing electric power for public consumption for
the whole country.
Organization and management
5.02       As described in paragraph 2 .09, policy directives for EdH are set
by the President of the Republic through key Ministers who comprise EdH's
board of directors. The general manager, appointed by the President, is
responsible for operating and administrative functions.
5.03       EdH is organized on a functional basis (annex 17 shows the organi-
zational chart). It has eight main departments each headed by a director.
In addition, each of the provincial offices, according to EdH's basic law
is headed by a department director. The organization of the provincial offices
and their relationships with EdH are, however, not yet clearly established
inasmuch as EdH has only recently begun to take over these operations.
According to EdH's basic law, the general manager is assisted by an administra-
ti,ve manager with responsibility for the financial and administrative
departments (i.e., personnel, accounts, legal, controller, commercial); the
technical department heads as well as the provincial office heads are to
report directly to the general manager.
5.04       This latter arrangement is not suited to efficient operations of a
power company. In fact, it has made it necessary for the general manager to
devote an extensive part of his time to day-to-day technical operational prob-
lems. On the recommendation of the Association, EdH appointed a technical
manager (a counterpart of the administrative manager) with line responsibility
for EdH's technical operations so that the general manager can devote
more time to overall management and coordination of long-range planning.
The government agreed to formalize this change in EdH's organizational structure
by an appropriate amendment to EdH's basic law not later than December 31, 1976.
5.05       The EdH organization is a relatively small one (about 500 employees).
The organization lacks depth in managerial, technical and administrative skills.
It has, hitherto, not had the financial independence necessary to plan and
execute a rational development of the power sector. There have been changes
in the top management of EdH since the time the proposed project was appraised.
When the Haitian Cabinet was reorganized in March 1976, EdH's general manager
was replaced. The new general manager is EdH's, former technical manager; his
replacement as technical manager is an engineer with many years of experience
within the organization. Both of these officials have had considerable exposure
to EdH's technical operations although their administrative skills are as yet
untested. To ensure that the organization is guided by experienced and competent
management, it has been agreed that EdH would maintain a general manager,
an administrative manager and a technical manager whose qualifications shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
5.06       EdH's financial situation and operatingjprocedures would improve with
the adoption of the tariff recommendations (paragraph 6.05), accounting systems



- 18 -
(paragraph 5.o7), and changes in its organizational structure (paragraph 5.o4.
As a first step in improving its technical operations, EdH agreed that a
training officer would be appointed a staff assistant to the technical manager
with responsibility for the training center to be established by the project
(see annex 9). In addition, one of the two engineers to be trained under the
UNDP preinvestment study (paragraph 2.18) also would be appointed a staff
assistant to the technical manager with responsibility for studies and system
planning. To strengthen its financial planning capability EdH agreed that the
two accountants to be trained under the UNDP-financed study (annex 9) would
be appointed staff assistants to the administrative manager with responsibility
for budgeting and financial planning. These appointments would be made by
July 31, 1976.
Management information systems and audit
5.o7       Up to now EdH's accounting, financial and management reporting
procedures have been deficient. There have been no formal financial planning,
budgeting or management control systems. In the course of project preparation
recommendations for a new accounting system, budgeting and control procedures
were submitted by EdH's accounting consultants - Howell and Co. (UQA). Training
of EdH staff in using these new procedures has begun and would be closely
monitored during project supervision.
5.08       EdH agreed to appoint an external auditor acceptable to the
Association and to transmit audited financial statements and auditors reports
to the Association within four months after the close of EdH's fiscal year.
Performance Indicators
5.09       Annex 11 shows a representative selection of indicators of EdH's
markebing, operating and financial performance through 1978. Performance as
measured by these indicators would be monitored during project execution.



_ 19 _
6. Finances
Summary
6.0i       As a result of a high level of unbilled electricity, non-payment
of bills by the public sector and short maturity of existing debts, EdH
has so far had unfavorable operating performance. To assure improvement of
EdH's financial condition it was agreed that the company would earn adequate
rates of return on revalued assets, increasing to 8% by 1981. Assuming
that this provision is met and that outstanding and current public sector
electric power bills are settled as agreed (paragraph 6.03), EdH's net
internal cash generation would be able to cover 22% of its construction
expenditures during the project period (1976-1978) and L2% of the short-term
(1976-1981) investment program. Annex 11 contains projections of EdHI's
key financial indicators which are expected to improve over the forecast
period as a result of higher earnings, settlement of public sector bills,
reduced dependence on short-term borrowing and improved operating efficien-
cies.
Earnings history, present position and future financial perfomance
6.02      EdH's financial operating performance has been unsatisfactory through-
out its short period of existence. The estimated rate of return on revalued
assets in fiscal 1975 was about 4.1%. This resulted from the high level of
iosses and theft of electricity (about 32% of net generation) and the low
reliability of the Peligre hydro plant. Precise estimates of EdH's profitability
prior to 1975 could not be made because the value of its asset base had not
been properly recorded. Nevertheless, given the high operating inefficiency,
the rates of return for 1971-74 would not be much better than the 4.1% achieved
in 1975.
6.03      EdH's finances have also been adversely affected by the fact that
electricity sales to the government and other public autonomous agencies
(comprising about 1b% of total sales in 197T) have never been paid for since EdH
assumed operations of the electric power facilities. As a result of the high
level of losses and non-payment of public sector electricity bills as much
as 46a  of the electricity generated has not been paid for.  Thus despite a
relatively high average tariff (about US~4.8/KWh in 1975) total receipts from
electric power saies have not been adequate to permit EdH to service its debts
and make some contribution towards its construction expenditure - as modest
as this has been. Consequently, EdH has had to borrow from the Haiti National
Bank every year since it started operations, and has been unable to meet
approximately US$1 million in service pay-ment on its debt to the Office
National d'Assurance (ONA).  As shown in the balance sheet (annex l!) the
balance of the amount of borrowing from the National Bank was an estimated
TrS$3-h million at Septeinbor 30, 1975.  As n first step towards improving
EdiT's finances assurances have been obtained that the Government shall take
all measures necessary that electricity bills owed to EdH are paid in time.
The Government also confirmed its intention to liquidate outstanding public
sector electricity bills in US$100,000 monthly installments over the period
January 1976 through May 1977 and that beginning January 1976 budgetary
allocations have been made for the Government  and other public sector agencies
to pay for current electricity consumption.
K.olh    The maturity of EdH's existing debts incurred principally for the
financing of the Peligre dam is very short and has also been partly responsible
for EdH's poor financial condition.  As shown  in detail in annex 15, all but
23% of the existing debts mature over the next two years.  To avoid a recurrence



- 20 -
of this heavy debt service burden, EdH agreed that it would not incur any
long-term debt without IDA approval unless its most recent 12 months internal
cash generation is at least 1.5 times its maximum debt service for any
succeeding 12-month period. To prevent undue reliance on short-term
financing it was agreed that EdH's short-term borrowing at any time would
not exceed one-sixth of its cash operating expenses without IDA's approval.
6.05      Implementation of measures to reduce losses and theft (para. 2.20)
and the new tariff structure would lead to an improvement in EdH's rate of
return to 7.0% in 1977. Earnings have been projected to improve gradually
thereafter through further reduction in losses and moderate tariff increases,
permitting EdH to achieve a rate of return of 8% by 1981. To achieve these
objectives and offset the price increases projected in annex 16, EdH's basic
tariffs would have to be raised an average of 10% at the beginning of each of
the fiscal ,,ears 1977, 1979 and 1981. The agreements relating to the proposed
credit provide that EdH would apply for and the government will grant tariff
increases to enable EdH to earn annual rates of return on its properly revalued
rate base of 5% in 1976, 7% in 1977, 1978 and 1979, 7.5% in 1980, and 8% in 1981
and thereafter.
Financing plan
6.06      Assum.ing that the provisions above are complied with, EdH's financial
plan would be acceptable. As summarized below and shown in more detail, in
annex 13, over the 1976-1978 construction period of the project EdH's total
funds requirements will be US$39.60 million. Of this, US$18.03 is estimated
for the proposed project, US$6.70 million for the first year of the second
stage installation of thermal units to meet the demand forecast in 1981;
US$6.11 rillion for on-going works and construction in the provinces, UlS$3.9
million for the project being financed by the Federal Republic of
Germany in Gonaives (para. 3.01) and US$3.05 million for working capital
increases. These requirements for funds would be met 22% from EdH's own
internal sourceis (after payment of debt service), .t,45% from proceeds of the
IDA credit and capitalization of interest during construction j, 1 7% from
as yet undetermined foreign sources, 7% from government contributions, and
S% from the proceeds of the Federal Republic of Germany Loan.
EdH Financing Plan  FY  1976-197B-
US$ million        _
Requirements of funds
First power project                               18.03
Gonaives project                                   3.90
Second power project                               6.70
Other projects                                     6.11
Interest during construction                       1.81
Total construction                            36-55              92
Working capital                                    3.05               8
Total requirements                            39.60             100
1/ Including the payment in 1976 of the arreas on the ONA debt (para. 6.03).
2/ The Governient has indicated that interest due it on proceeds of thB JDA
credit will be capitalized during the 1976-1978 construction period.



- 21 -
US$ million        %
Sources of funds
Net operating income                                  8.L4            21
Depreciation                                          5.31            13
Total                                            13.75            3
;ess: debt service                                    &.71            12
Net internal cash generation                          9.04            22
Customers contributions                               0.36             1
Proposed IDA credit and capitalized interest         17.80            45
Loan from the Federal Republic of Germany             3.10             8
Government contributions                              2.80             7
Future foreign loan                                   6.50            17
Total sources                                    39.60           100
6.07      Of the US$2.8 million government contribution, US$2 million will cover
part of the local cost of the proposed first power project, and US$0.8 million
will be counterpart for the Gonalves project.  The government has agreed to
provide the needed counterpart for the proposed project from thQ
Matching Fund which is a fund made up of 5% of the government's operating
budget to be used for various development projects. The government contribution
is needed becaluse of EdH's heavy debt service obligations during- the proposed
proJect's construction.  During this period the net drain on government resources
by the power sector would amount to only about US$1.6 mil1ion because pay-ments to
be made 1by the government on account of counterpart for the proposed first power
and Gonaives projects, debt servlce on Peligre not paid by EdH and liquidation
of outstanding electricity bills, will be partly offset by Ed.H's repayments of
overdrafts to the iNational Bank.
6.08      The proposed IDA credit amounting to uS$16 million (representing
89% of the project's total cost) wou'd be made to the Government of Haiti for
a period of 50 years including 10 years grace at a service charge of 3/41,' per
year.  The government agreed to on-lend proceeds from the IDA credit to EdE
for a period of 25 years including 2 years of grace at 8.85,' anMual interest,
together with US$1.8 million to cover interest during construction.
6.09      The government has indicated that it intends to allocate the debt
service payments received from EdH to a special fund for financing of government
counterpart for external2-r financed development projects.
6.10      The Gonaives project is part of a rural development project being
financed by the Federal Republic of Germany. The power portion of the loan
amounting to DM7.9 mi1lion (about US$3.1 million) would be made to the
Republic of Haiti for a period of 50 years including 10 years grace at 3/h4
interest.  On-lendln7 terms for Edh are 30 searF including 7 year;, grace at
5% annulal iterect.



- 22 -
7. Agreements Reached and Recommendations
7.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following
principal issues:
(a)  The Government in coordination with EdH would formulate a sector
investment program on the basis of the recommendations of the on-
going UNDP study not later than September 30, 1977 (para. 2.17);
(b) The Government agreed that during the project's execution EdH would
not be permitted to undertake any other construction expenditure
exceeding US$1.5 million equivalent in any one year without
prior IDA approval, and the Government would consult with the
Association before permitting EdH to undertake any investment in
the power sector exceeding the equivalent of US$2 million in the
aggregate after completion of the project (para. 2.17);
(c) EdH has agreed to undertake a program to train its staff (para. 2.18);
(d) EdH will implement a program to bring down electricity losses to
agreed upon levels (para. 2.20);
(e)  The Government and EdH have confirmed their intention to implement
the new tariffs in the Port-au-Prince area by October 1, 1976,
implement new tariffs nationally not later than October 1, 1977,
and seek the concurrence of the Association before imDlementing
any changes in tariffs prior to December 31, 1983 (para. 2.22);
(f)  EdH agreed to review power and energy demand forecasts in the
Port-au-Prince area every two years (para. 4.0h);
(g) The Government agreed to amend EdH's basic law to include changes
in its organizational structure not later than December 31, 1976
(paras. 5.04 and 5.06, Annex 17);
(h)  EdH agreed to maintain a General Manager, Technical Manager and
Administrative Manager with qualifications acceptable to IDA
(para. 5.05);
(i) EdH agreed to appoint system planning, financial planning, budgeting
and training officers not later than July 31, 1976 (para. 5.06);
(j)  EdH agreed to appoint external auditors acceptable to IDA and transmit
audited financial statements to the Association within four months
of the closing of each fiscal year (para. 5.08);



- 23 -
(k)  The Government Egreed to take all measures necessary to ensure
that public sector electricity bills are settled and paid in time
(para. 6.03);
(1)  EdH agreed not to incur any debt without prior IDA agreement
unless it imeets the debt Iimitation tests (para. 6.04);
(i)  I'he Government and EdH agreed to maintain EdH's tariffs at
levels sufficient for it to earn rates of return on a revalued
rate base of 5b in 1976, 7T  in each of 1977 through 1979, 7.5%
in 1930 and 8.0; in 1981 and in each year thereafter (para. 6.O5);
(in)  The Government agreed to provide the necessary counterpart funds for
the p:roject (para. 6.07);
(o)  Trhe Government and EdH ag,reed to the on-lending te :s of tLhe
proposed credit (para. 6.08); and
(p)  EdH agreed to revalue its assets every year in accordance with
procedures accentable to IDA (Annex 16, para. 10).
7.02      With the above assurances, the project is suitableb for an TDIA credit
-f US416 million equivalent to the Republic of Haiti, to be on-lent to EdH for
l period of 25 years including 2 years of grace at 8.85% annual interest.






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Existing Generating Facilities in Haiti
A. Public Service
1. The standard distribution voltages and frequency in Haiti are:
- Medium tension voltage : 12.47/7.2 and 1.16/244 kV;
- Low tension voltage: 120/240 V-3 wire, single phase; 120/208 three phases;
- Frequency: 60 c/s.
Most of the country's public service generation capacity serves the Port-au-Prince
region (86%). The remaining 11% is in the form of isolated plants serving provin-
cial towns.
2. Port-au-Prince Region
a) The Port-au-Prince metropolitan area with a population of about 500,000
inhabitants covering an area of approximately 50 km2, includes the town of Petion-
ville with about 35,000 inhabitants. Besides the metropolitan area of Port-au-
Prince, from an electric supply point of view, three other localities with a total
population of about 10,000 persons are connected to the Port-au-Prince electric
system. These three localities are Kenscoff to the East, Leogane to the Southwest
and Croix des Bouquets to the North. In the near future EdH envisages extending
service to the north to the town of Duvalierville.   The attachment shows historical
data on sales and generation for the region.
b) Until July 1971 when the first unit of the Peligre hydro power plant
(para. 2 (c) below) came on line, the Port-au-Prince system was supplied with
electric energy by an obsolete and inefficient diesel power plant. Total nominal
capacity of this plant at that time was 17.12 MN. At the present time, the
nominal capacity is 14.12 MW, because 4 machines with a total capacity of 3 MW
have been taken to outlying districts in other regions of Haiti. However, the
total coincident capacity of these machines if they were all in good working
condition would be not more than 12.75 MW due to the extremely high temperature
conditions that result from simultaneous operation. The 14.12 MW is produced by
12 machines with an average age of 28 years and their present condition only
permits the following type of operation:
Peaking purpose (2,000-3,000 hours/year)              7.8 MW
Base load with 75% availability                       5.4 MW
Base load with 100% availability                      2.5 MW
c) Peligre Hydro Power Plant
The Peligre dam was built an the mid-1950's) for flood control, irriga-
tion and drainage of the Artibonite Valley, and a later utilization for the gene-
ration of electric energy. In July 1971 the first turbo-alternator was put into
service and two further units were commissioned in April 1972 and January 1971.



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3 pages
The Peligre dam is located on the Artibonite river in Peligre canyon
about 54 km North-East of Port-au-Prince, and the principal data on the dam,
reservoir, power plant, and transmission system are given below:
Dam characteristics
Type of dam                                   concrete arch
Drainage area                                 7,100 km2
Height of dam above foundation                   70 m
Reservoir area at spillway elevation          2,700 ha
Spillway capacity                               4OO m3/s
Top of dam                                      174 m   a.s.l.
Spillway crest                                  167 m   a.s.l.
(Gates are installed to bring water
level to 170 m).
Bottom of dam                                   116im   a.s.l.
Minimum water level for turbine
operation                                      153 m   a.s.l.
Turbine characteristics
Number of  units                                   3
Type                                          Francis
Rating at different heads                     54 m  43 m   34 m
18.7 MW 16.3MW12 MW
Alternator characteristics
Capacity                                         15.7 MW
Voltage                                          13.2 KV
Transmission system characteristics
Voltage                                         115 KV
Number of circuits                                2
Length                                            54 km
Under present conditions, the transmission system has some deficiencies
such as inadequate earthing of towers and non-selective protection systems which
will be corrected as a result of the project.
The annual average generation capacity of the Peligre hydropower plant
is 172.5 GWh in the wet season (measured at the Delmas substation in Port-au-Prince)
and 66 to 72 GWh in the dry season.
3. Rest of the Country
Tn the rest of the country isolated diesel plants (burning diesel oil)
and one hydro plant exists in different localities as shown below.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3 pages
Installed Capacity     Annual Generation
in KW                 in MWh
Cap Haitien                       2,170                   5,160
Cayes                             1,480                   1,100
Jeremie                             600                     375
Gonaives                          2,775                   1,000
St. Marc                            550                     250
Port-de-Paix                        500                     300
Petit-Goave                         340                     200
Mirebalais                           60                      35
Thomonde                             30                      15
Jacmel                        870  +  200 hydro             n.a.
Total              9,575                   8,435
B. Captive Plant
Two important privately owned captive power plants exist in the Port-au-
Prince region to supply large industries.
a) "LE CIMENT D'HAITI1', the cement factory has an installed generation
capacity of 11,000 KW (50 Hz);
b)  The "HASCO" sugar factory has an installed generating capacity of
2,250 KW.
Besides these two important installations a number of very much smaller
captive plants exist all over the country. No information is available on these
plants.
Attachment



HISTORICAL DATA OF GENERATION, SALES,  LSSES
AND NUMBER OF CLIENTS
GWH                                   MW                            Numb,er of      To Increase
Generation  /  Sales        Losses       % Losses   / Maximum Demand       Load Factor       Clients         in sales
1960                      51,232       28,572       22,660          44             12.2               47.9           21,253
1961                      56,308       29,439       26,869          48             12.7               50.8           22,191              3
1962                      60,505       30,381       30,124          50             12.7               54.6           23,o44              3
1963                      61,489       28,989       32,500          52             12.6               55.6           23,311             -5
1964                      63,223       28,400       34,823          55             11,3               63. 7          22,507             -2
1965                      61,082       29,194       31,888          52             11.6               60.2           19,989              3
1966                      61,902       32,507       29,395          47             13.9               50.7           20,321             11
1967                      65,133       36,416       28,717          44             13.8               54.1           20,553             12
1968                      67,009       41,220       25,789          38             13.4               57.3           22,069             13
1969                      74,360       45,727       28,633          38             13.4               63.3           22,729             11
1970                      74,698       47,039       27,659          37             15.0               56.7           23,233               3
1971                      86,626       56,526       30,100          35             18.0               54.9           23,979             20
1972                      96,228       61,676       34,652          36             21.4               51.3           27,716              9
1973                     131,791       75,873       55,918          42             24.9               53.9           30,086             23
1974                     134,700       89,910       44,790          33             27.9               55.1           32,552             19
2/   Net Generation
C+ra
As percentage of generation 



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Description of the Project
I. Generation Facilities
1.         The generation facilities of the project will consist of a medium
speed diesel power plant of about 21 MW, composed of two machines of about
2.9 MW each, and two machines of about 7.5 MW each.  The fuel used will be
basically fuel oil (Bunker C) with a small proportion of diesel oil (for start-
up and stopping purposes).  It was found that the most economical location
for this power plant was adjacent to the HASCO sugar factory. The first units
(2.9 MW) are expected to be in serv-ice by March 1977 and EdH plans to complete
the plant (21 MW) by December 1977.
II. Transmission, Distribution and other works (to be completed by year-end 1977)
2.          Transmission lines and distribution lines
a) 5.4 km of double circuit 115 kV lines to connect the existing Delmas
substation to the proposed new Canape-Vert substation;
b) 21 km of single circuit 69 kV lines which will be stage I of a
ring around Port-au-Prince;
c)  Transformation of 4 km of 12.47 kV. lines to 69 kV  to interconnect
the new diesel power plant and the Delmas substation;
d)  20 km of 12.47 kV and 6 km of 2.k kV lines to extend the distribu-
tion networks; and
e) Extensions of low tension distribution lines where required.
3.          Substations
a)  Extension of the existing Delmas 115/12.47 kV substation necessary
to interconnect the new diesel power plant and the new 69 kV ring
around Port-au-Prince;
b) Construction of the Canape-Vert 115/69/12.47 kV substation necessary
to feed both Petionville and the 69 kV ring and existing distribu-
tion lines;
c) The construction of three 69/12.47 kV substations: Martissant,
Carrefour Feuilles, and Croix des Missions to feed energy into the
distribution networks;



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3 pages
d)  The construction of the Place Geffrard 12.47/L.i6/2.I  kV subfstation to
interconnect the 12.L7 kV and 4.16/2.4 kV distribution networks; and
e) 7000 kVA of distribution transformers.
4.         Miscellaneous works
a)  Modifications of the relay protection of the Peligre-Delmas transmis-
sion system to improve security of service and improvements of the
earthing of some the towers;
b)  The installation of an insulating transformer in the local distribu-
tion network of the Peligre power station to insulate the generators
from faults in the network;
c) Replacement of circuit breakers at the old diesel power plant. The
existing breakers have insufficient interrupting capacity;
d) Conversion of the Petionville-Kenscoff one phase 12.47 kV line to
three phase; and
e) Construction and equipping of a training center.
5.         Engineering and Supervision
The engineering, preparation of bidding documents for international
competitive bidding, the evaluation of bid proposals, equipment fabrication
inspection. and on-site supervision of construction will be carried out by
consultants (SOFRELEC- France) already accepted by the Association. The
ccnsultant's services have been estimated at 160 man-month with an average
cost ot uS$5 450 per man-month, which covers base salaries plus overhead. About
US$60.000 have been estimated for travel (both to Haiti and to Washington),
use of computer time and telephone and telex expenses. The consultant will also
train EdH's accounting personnel in using the new accounting system, budgeting and
control procedures, etc. (see annex Q) and in general train Ed-Nis technical st,ff
by on-the-job supervision of..the erection of distribution networks (para. 3.06).
6.         Training of EdH's personnel
See annex 9 for details of zhe training program envisaged by EdH.
III.   Cost of Project
7.         The estimated cost is shown below.  Physical contingencies for the
power plant were estimated at 8%. This is conservative as the scope of the
project has been completely defined during discussions between EdH, SOFRELEC
and the suppliers. No price contingency was considered for the power plant
as EdH is planning to sign the contract on a firm-price basis. A letter of
intent to this effect has already been sent by EdH. Physical contingencies
for the other project components were estimated at 10% and price contingencies
were estimated at 9% for 1976, 8% for 1977 and 1978.



ANNID( 2
Page 3 of 3 pages
Local    Foreign      Total    Local    Foreign       Total
- thousands Gourdes ---       -      thousands of US$ ----
Diesel Power Station             9,150      41,910    51,060    1,830        8,382    10,212
High Tension Transmission Lines
and Substations                2,815      i1,585    17,400       563       2,917      3,480
5.4km single circuit 115KV line  250          885      1,135       50         177        227
21km single circuit 69KV line   4L5         1,580      2,025       89         316        405
Transformation of 4km of 12.47KV
to 69KV (double circuit)          25          75        100        5          i5         20
Extension of Delmas substation   550        3,360      3,910       110        672        782
Substation for new diesel plant  500        2,865      3,365       100        573        673
Canape-Vert substation            430       2,220      3,150       86         444        530
Martissant, Carrefour Feuilles,
and Croix des Missions 69KV
substations                      615       3,600     h.215       123         720        843
Distribution and other works    1,035        4,900      5,935       207        980      1,187
Distribution transformers
(7000 KVA)                        50         L70        520       10          94        104
Distribution lines (middle
tension and low tension -
including Place Geffrard
substation)                       710      1,890      2,600       142        378        520
Modification of Peligre trans-
mission system                     30        290        320         6         58         68
New switchgear at existing
diesel plant                       95      1,765      1,860        19        353        372
Construction and equipping of
training center                   150         485       635        30          97       127
Technical Assistance                 -       4,650      4,650        -         930        930
Training                             -          215       215        -          43         43
Subtotal               13,000      66,260    79,260    2,600       13,252    15,852
Physical contingencies            i,ii5       5,785     6,900       223       1,157     1,380
14,115     72,045    86,160    2,823       1b,L09    17,232
Price contingencies                 590       3,410     4,000       118         682        800
Total Project Cost        14,705      75,455    90,160    2,941       15,09i    18,032
_   :*=



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Demand, Generation and Sales Forecast
1.       SOFRELEC prepared a forecast of energy sales, generation and
demand for the Port-au-Prince area for the period 1975-1990. This projec-
tion is based on a detailed analysis of:
i) The historical growth rates of the different consumer categories;
ii) The industries already installed and waiting to be connected
(see Annex 4);
iii) Information gathered at EdH and the different Ministries; and
iv) The projected decrease in losses from 33% (1974) of total
generation to 16% in 1982, resulting from the anti-theft legisla-
tion (para.2.20 of the text) and the improvement in the distribu-
tion network of Port-au-Prince.
2.       The analysis carried out in preparing the forecast for the different
customer categories is as follows:
i) Public Lighting
a) The historic analysis of Public Lighting consumption shows an
average yearly increase of 8% between 1965 and 1974, with an
increase of 22.5% in 1972-1973 and 4O.4% in 1973-1974, giving
an average of 31% for the period 1972-19Th;
b) In accordance with EdH's instructions from the Government con-
cerning public lighting in Port-au-Prince, the following yearly
growth rate were assumed:
1975-1977            30%
1977-1979            10%
1980 onwards          3%
These growth rates would permit EdH to install needed public
lighting on about 500 km of streets by 1979. From then on
the low growth rate corresponds to the geographic extension of
the area serviced by EdH.
ii)  Industry
a) The average yearly growth in industrial consumption between the
years 1965 and 194 was 14.7% and between 1972-19Th it was 23%;



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3 pages
b) The forecast prepared by SOFRELEC is based on the following
assumptions of yearly average growth:
1975-1979           30%
1979-198M           13%
1985 onwards         8%
The growth figure of 8.0% from 1985 onwards corresponds to the
long-term projections made by the Haitian government for
industrial growth. The forecast for 1975-1979 takes into account
the connection of 14 MW of existing installed capacity waiting to
be connected (Annex 4) and planned future industrial installations.
iii) Residential Consumers
Residential consumption is projected to increase 3% yearly through
1990. This projection is based on a UNDP financed study of
population growth in Port-au-Prince which established a demographic
average yearly growth of 5.3%, and a corresponding average growth
rate of electric consumption of 2.2%. The additional 0.8% corres-
ponds to a progressively higher standard of living, and new
connections of low-income households. It is expected that the
number of households connected to the system will increase by more
than 40% in the period 1975 through 1981.
iv)  Commercial and Hotel Consumers
No historical data was available to analyze these categories.
Because of the Haitian government's policy of encouraging increased
tourism and the continued construction of hotels, a yearly growth
rate of 15% until 1979 and 10% after that was adopted.
v) Government and Public Consumers
The historical average growth rate between 1965 and 1974 of govern-
ment electricity consumption was 6.2%.   There was no change in the
rate of growth in 1973 and 194 when energy became availabe from
the Peligre hydroelectric power plant. Therefore, it appears reason-
able to maintain this figure for the future.
3.       The final results of the forecast prepared under the assumptions
explained in para 2 above are shown in attachment 1. These figures incorporate
decreasing percentage losses from 33% of net generation (197T) to 16% in 1982.
The average yearly percentage growth rates of sales, generation and
maximum demand are as follows:
1975-1982        1975-1990
Sales                                     15.3              11.1
Generation                               12.5               9.6
M4aximum demand                          12.0               9.1



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3 pages
These projections are conservative, as the annual average growth rate of
consumption during the period 1965-1974 was 13.3%. As is mentioned in para.
b.03 of the text, the forecast should be revised within two years so that
any significant changes can be taken into account before determining more
precisely the necessary additional generating capacity to be included
in the second stage of the program.
Attachment



ENERGY SALES , LOSSES, GENERATION, MAXIMUM DEMAND AND LOAD FACTOR
1971     1972     1973    1974      1975     1976     1977     1978     1979      1980     1981     1982     1q83     1?84      1985     1986    1987     1988      1989     1990
----------- Actual ----------- >    &------   --   ------------------------------------------------ Forecast ----------
Sales GWh                    56.5    61.7    75.9    89.9   106.3   142.3   185.4   203.7   225.2    241.8   260.3   280,9    304.7   329.8    349.7   371.2   394.14    419.5   446.'5   475.7
Losses GWh                   30.1    34.5       37.9    44.8    50.0       61.o    72.1      71.6     71.1      56.7    53.25    53.5      58.0     62.8     66.7      70.7    75.2     79.9      85.1     90.6
Losses % of Generation        35       36        33       33       32       30       28       26       24       19       17        16       16       16       16        16      16       16        16       16
Generation (Net)             86.6     96.2   113.8    134.7   156.3   203.3   257.5    275.3   296.3    298.5   313.5    334.4    362.7   392,6    416.4    441.9  469.6    499.4    531.6   566.3
Load Facor %                 55        51       54       55       58       64       67       60       58       55        54       54      55       55        56       56      56         56      56        56
Maxi~n Demand (MW)
Dcesmber of each year)       18.0     21.4     24.1    27.9    31.0       36.5    44.2    52.0    58.0         61.7    65.8      70.2       75.3   80.9      85.5    90.4    95.7   101.4    107.5   1114.1
Average Growth of Sales %    <----------- 16.7 -----------) >    4( ----------------------------  15.3 ---------------------------- >     (------------------------------ 6.8-----------
--------------------------------------11.1-                                                     -- - -        -  - - -_____  _____
]/ Total available capacity and reserve in the dry and wet seasons are shown in attachments 1, 2 and 3 of Annex 5.
CD



ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
List of industries and other loads waiting to
be connected
Installed capacity (KW)
Brewery                                                            600
Sugar factory                                                      400
Flour mill                                                      1,5oo
Furnace for steel works                                         5,000
Textiles factories                                              1,000
14O smaller industries (10-300 kW each)                         1,200
Subtotal industry                        11,300
Irrigation pumps in different parts of the
Port-au-Prince area                                           1,800
Satellite Station                                                 500
Hotels                                                            boo
Total                                   11,000
It is expected that by end 1978 at least 5,000 additional jobs will be provided
directly by these industries. No estimate is available about the number of
additional jobs that will be created by the higher agricultural production
because of increased irrigation in the Port-au-Prince area.



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Wet and Dry Season Energy and Demand Requirements
1.        In order to be able to determine the capacity of the new generating
facilities required for the Port-au-Prince area, SOFRELEC determined the
energy requirements for the dry season (November to May) for each year from
1975 through 1982 and the maximum demand at the end of both the dry and wet
seasons (May and October) of each year. These results are shown in attach-
ments 1 to 3 to this Annex.
2.        The basis for their evaluations (shown as footnotes on the attach-
ments) are the following:
i) The maximum demand and energy requirements are the result of the
forecast determined as explained in Annex 3.
ii) The dry season energy requirements (attachment 2) are based on the
generation forecast (summarized in Annex 3) plus a very small re-
serve which consists of the energy supplied by the largest
machine of the existing diesel plant (2,500 kW);
iii) The available dry season energy was calculated as the available
hydro energy based on a relatively but not extremely dry season
(occuring once every seven years) and the energy available at the
old diesel plant corresponding to the generation of 5,W0 kW with
75% availability;
iv) The capacity requirements (attachments 1 and 3) were calculated by
adding to the forecasted maximum demand the reserve corresponding
to one machine of the Peligre hydro power plant. This reserve is
different during the wet and dry seasons because of the difference
in head; and
v) The capacity available was calculated adding to the maximum possible
output of Peligre the thermal capacity of the old diesel station as
calculated for peaking purposes (see Annex 1).
3.        From these calculations, it is seen that from the point of view of
energy about 15 MW of additional capacity (without any reserve for this capac-
ity) is needed to cover the projected energy needs by May 1978. From the
maximum demand point of view 20 MW are needed for the same date.
The calculations also showed that hO MW are needed in 1982.  However,
the forecast, especially on a long-term basis, contains various uncertainties
due to:
a) The difficulties in forecasting the consequences of the proposed
new tariff structure and level on demand. This is especially true
when assessing the effect on both low and high income groups in
their reaction to lower residential tariffs for its first group
and higher residential tariffs for the second.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2 pages
b) The impossibility to forecast future industrial activity in Haiti,
concerning the number and type of new industries to be installed in
the future.
5.        It is therefore necessary to revise the forecast within two years
which would permit EdH to define more precisely the generating capacity
necessary through 1982 and its timing, i.e. the second stage of EdH's expansion
program for the Port-au-Prince area.
Attachments



DEMAND END OF DRY SEASON (MA!Y)
REQUIREMENTS AND AVAILABILITY IN MW (DELMAS)
Availability
Maximum Demand      Reserve       Total        Hydro     Thermal     Total       Difference
(May)                                           i                                            oo-.
1976                      33.8             10.8         44.6         32.4        7.8  /      40o          -4,6
1977                      39.9             10.8         50.7         32.4        7.8         40.0        -10.7
1978                      47.5             10.8         58.3         32.4        6.2         38.6        -19.7
1979                      55.0             10.8         65.8         32.4        6.2         38.6        -27.2
1980                      59.8             10.8         70.6         32.4        6.2         38.6        -32.0
1981                      63.7             10.8         74.5         32.4        6.2         38.6        -35.9
1982                      67.9             10.8         78.7         32.4        6.2         38.6        -40.1
Total capacity of 1 machine at Peligre at end of dry season = 11.6MW which leaves 10.8 at Delmas after taking
into account local demand and line losses.
3 x 11.6 = 34.8 - 0.3 (local demand) - line losseso 6% = 32.4
3/    Availability of Old Diesel Station is less in 1978 due to obsoleteness of groups Nos. 6, 7, 11 and 12
C>D
cti-



DRY SEASON ENERGY REQUIREMENTS (NET) AND
AVAILABILITY (GWH)
Avaii ab *hle
Energy3/                                                     V                                      -5/
Requirement       Reserve        Total        Hydro      Thermal      Total       Difference     MW
(May)
1976                      93.83             9.3          103.13       67.4         17.7       85.1          -18.03       -4.8
1977                     119.71             9.3          129.01       67.4         17.7       85.1          -43.91      -11.8
1978                     134.67             9.3          143.97       67.4         17.7       85.1         -58.87       -15.8
1979                      144.64            9.3          153.94       67.4         17.7       85.1          -68.84      -18.5
1980                     148.47             9.3          157.77       67.4         17.7       85.1          -72.67      -19.5
1981                     154.26             9.3          163.56       67.4         17.7       85.1          -78.46      -21.0
1982                      163.70            9.3          173.00       67.4         17.7       85.1          -87.90      -23.6
Estimated consumption plus losses.
g/     2500kW corresponding to biggest machine at old Diesel Plant with 85% availability.
2/     Dry season hydro generation based on a hydrological probability of 13% i.e. once every seven years.
g/     5400kW at old Diesel Plant with 75% availability.
5/     Base thermal capacity necessary with 85% availability, without considering its own reserve.



DEMAND END OF WET SEASON (OCTOBER) REQUIREMENTS
AND AVAILABILITY IN MW (DELMAS)
Maximum                                                     Availability
Demand          Reserve       Total        Hydro        Thermal       Total         Difference
(October)
1976                35.8           14.6 1/       50-4         36.8 2/        7.8         4L-.6           -5.8
1977                13.0          i1.6           57.6         36.8           7.8         14.6           -13.0
1978                50.8           14.6          65.-         43.0 3/        6.2         49.2           -16.2
1979                57.2           14.6          71.8         43.0           6.2         49.2           -22.6
1980                61.2           14.6          75.8         43.0           6.2         49.2           -26.6
1981                65.3           14.6          79.9         43.0           6.2         49-2           -30.7
1982                69.6           14.6          84.2          43.0          6.2         49.2           -35.0
I/   14.6 is the result of 15.7 MW (nominal) - 0.3 (local demand) - 5% loss.  (7% for 2 units and 8% for 3 units).
2/   Maximum transmission capability of transmission line (2 circuits) is presently 40 MW (1 circuit - 31 MW)
with 8% loss -  36.8 MW.
j,/  15.7 x 3 = 47.1 - 0.3 - 8% -43 MW (transmission system capable of passing all the power after rehabilitation.
CO+
ci -
CD
--
c --



ANNEx 6
Page 1 of 2 Pages
APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Least Cost Solution
1.        In the economic comparisons carried out, the following long-term
assumptions in relation to fuel prices were used:
a) Cost of fuel oil (Bunker C) = 80% of crude oil;
b) Cost of diesel oil = 125% of crude oil
c) The cost of crude oil CIF Haiti was taken to be US$7, 9 and
12/barrel.
2.        To determine the least cost solution for the proposed thermal power
plant a comparison was carried out between:
- medium-speed diesel units (fuel oil)
- gas turbine ( diesel oil)
- gas turbine in combination with conventional steam
plant (diesel and fuel oil)
1975 known capital base costs for all these units were used as follows:
- gas turbines - US$167/kW (7.51MW units)
- medium-speed diesel urdits - US$333/kW
- gas turbines in combination with conventional steam plant- US$280/kW
To take into account the loss of capacity of gas turbines at higher ambient tem-
peratures (average temperature in Port-au-Prince is 30C), the installed cost
per kilowatt of gas turbines was raised to US$187 and that of gas turbines com -
bined with conventional steam plant to US$312.
3.        Using discountratesof 10, 12, 11x, 16,18 and 20%, the present worth
of capital, operation, maintenance, and fuel costs was calculated for all three
machines types considering a utilization of 2,000 to 8,000 hour/yearly.   It
was shown that the medium-speed diesel engines were the least cost solution for
discount rates up to 20% for all three fuel prices considered and for all types
of utilization.
4.        In order to see the influence of different long-term fuel prices'
relationships than those mentioned in para. 1, the following relationships were
used and the above calculations were repeated:
- fuel oil  =  125% of crude oil
- diesel oil  =  150% of crude oil



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2 pages
Present relationships in Haiti are:
- fuel oil  =  88% of crude oil
- diesel oil  =  150% of crude oil
Even with this fuel oil price, which favors the gas turbines, the medium-speed
diesel engines were still the least cost solution for discount rates up to
20% for all three fuel prices.
5.        An analysis was made to compare different voltages for the trans-
mission component of the project, i.e., the ring around Port-au-Prince. Three
alternatives were considered: 33kV, 69kV, and a combined solution of 69kV
and 115kV. It was found that the combined solution of 69kV and 115kV (see map)
is the least cost solution for discount rates up to 35%.



ANNE( 7
Page 1 of 2 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Return on Investment
1.        Two rates of return were calculated:
a) The rate of return on investment of the proposed project to be
financed by the Association (Stage 1); and
b) The rate of return on the investment program proposed by SOFRELEC
through 1982 which includes additional 20 MW of generating capacity
and the completion of the transmission/distribution works for the
Port-au-Prince area. (Stages 1 and 2).
2.        The following assumptions were made to calculate the rates of return:
a) Construction costs exclude price escalation and interest during
construction;
b) Operation and maintenance costs are computed at internationally
accepted values as certain yearly percentages of investment. Actual
data supplied by EdH was thought inapplicable because no preventive
maintenance is being carried out at present;
c)  That foreign exchange costs were computed at the free rate of
exchange of G5.0 = US$1.0;
d) That all the energy sold in 1977 through 1982 over and above the
1976 levels was due to the program (Stages 1 and 2). This is a
reasonable assumption as otherwise EdH could not connect any new
consumers and would have to impose restrictions on existing consumers
due to lack of generating capacity. In the case of the project
(Stage 1), from 1979 through 1982, half the energy is considered
as both stages include generating capacities of the same magnitude;
e) The average revenues per kWh were those determined by the tariff
study mentioned in annex 8.
f)  That in the case of the project investment (Stage 1) after 1982 15 lW
--of diesel plant stays in Port-au-Prince as a reserve for the future
lignite and/or hydro units working 1,000 hours/year and 6 MW of diesel
plant are transferred to the provinces (isolated districts) working
5,000 hours/year.
g)  That in the case of the program investment (Stages 1 and 2) 30 W
of diesel plant stays in Port-au-Prince as a reserve for the future



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2 pages
lignite and/or hydro plants working 1,000 hours/year and 13.5 M
are transferred to the provinces working 5,000 hours/year.
h)  That from 1983 onwards all incremental energy sales would be due to
future projects. This is conservative because it penalizes the
transmission and distribution works which will certainly not
have reached their capacity by 1982.
3.        The above assumptions result in the cost/benefit streams (in US$)
shown in attachements 1 and 2 to this Annex.
4.        On the basis of the above assumption, the rate of return on the projects
investment is 16.0% and the rate of return on the program investment is 16.5%
The figures compare very favorably with the opportunity cost of capital in Haiti.
Sensitivity Analysis
5.       The sensitivity analysis carried out shows that if the investment
and operating cost were to rise by 10%, therates of return would be 14L.o% and
J4.2% respectively.
Project Timing
6.        The possibility of postponing  the project for one year was evaluated
by computing the discount rate which equalizes the savings in investment and
operating costs which would result, with the benefits that would be lost. Since
this rate is above 20% it would be uneconomical to postpone the project.
Attachments



Return on Investment (Project Investment - Stage I)
(in millions of US$)
20 years
1976        1977         1978         1979         1980         1981        1982          1983-2002
Capital Costs                                4.35         9.86         1.30
Operation and Maintenance of
Transmission and Distribution works                                 0.23         0.23         0.23         0.23         0.23             0.23
Generation  Costs                                       0.24        1.59         1.59         1.59         1.59         1.59             0.74
Total Benefits                                        2.07        3.81         2.83         3.34         3.80        4b34              4.01
Cost-Benefit Stream                     (4.35)       (8.03)       o.69         1.01         1.52         1.98        2.25              3.04
Rate of Return 16.0%
cs-



Return on Investment (Program through 1982 - Stages 1 and 2)
(in millions of US$)
20 years
1976        1977        1978         1979        1980         1981        1982           1983-2002
Capital Costs (Stage 1)                   4.35        9.86         1.30
(Stage 2)                                           5.27        8.19         1.10
Operation and maintenance of
Transmission and Distribution works                               0.23        0.23         o.47        o.47         o.47             o.47
Generation Costs                                     0.24         1.59        1.82         1.92        2.05         2.28             1.60
Total Benefits                                     2.07         3.81        4.86        5.87         6.81         7.87             7.54
Cost-Benefit Stream                   (4.35)      (8.03)       (4.58)      (5.38)       2.38         4.29         5.12             5.47
Rate of Return   16.5%
Cl-
I:5
M+
N)



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Electricity Tariffs in Haiti
1.        EdH's principal tariffs are summarized in attachment 1 to this
Annex. These tariffs have not been changed during the last 30 years and penal-
ize very heavily the majority of the inhabitants of Port-au-Prince, i.e., the
low-income groups, thus encouraging theft of electricity under extremely un-
safe conditions. They also tend to encourage excessive consumption of the
high-income residential consumers by fixing very low tariffs for high electro-
domestic consumption. e.g., water heaters, etc. An additional disadvantage
of these tariffs is their administrative complexity.
2.        The terms of reference of the engineering consultant hired by EdH -
SOFRELEC (France) - to prepare the first power project, called for a tariff
study for the Port-au-Prince region. These terms of reference were prepared
with the Association's assistance and required the consultant to propose a
new and simpler tariff structure based on marginal costs and levels sufficient
to obtain an adequate financial rate of return on assets. The consultant
has submitted a proposal which is summarized in attachment 2 to this Annex.
3.        As an example of the difference in billing that the proposed tariff
will cause the following examples can be given:
i)    a residential consumer with a 30 kWh monthly consumption would with
the present tariff pay US$3.46 and with the proposed tariff he would
pay US$1.65; and
ii)    a residential consumer with a 1500 kWh monthly consumption would
double his monthly payment from US$50.o to about US$100.0.
The proposed tariff considers yearly adjustments of all tariff levels
to compensate for:
i)    fuel cost variations;
ii)    salary and materials cost variations (excluding fuel).
In other words, there would be yearly adjustments of tariff levels to consider
both international and local inflation as explained below:
i)    Fuel cost variation
Fuel cost variation will result as a consequence of:
- cost variation of the fuel itself; and
- variations of hydrological conditions.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3 pages
To compensate for-these variations the fod-I1ing meth6o-d wiEll be applied.f
a)    Ervery year at the beginning of the dry season (which coincides with
the start of EdH's fiscal year) an estimate will be made
of the quantities and cost (Ck) of fuel and lubrication oil to be used
in the coming year on its basis of known fuel costs.
b)    At the1end of the year this cost Cj will be compared with the actual
cost CN of the fuel and lubricants used, and the energy tariff levels
for the following year will be increased by
(C1N - CN)
Total energy sales of the year
The basis for the application of this fuel cost correction is that
values of the tariff levels are initially calculated according to
present fuel costs and normal hydrological conditions. This correction
could be applied, according to the circumstances, at shorter inter-
vals than one year.
ii)     Salary and materials cost variations  (excluding fuel):
This revision will be carried outyearlyby calculating and applying
the following index to all the changes in the tariff:
I = a + b  S +C c
So     Mo
where S represents the average salary of EdHI's personnel at the
end of the year considered and So the average salary at the
beginning of that year. M represents the whole-sale price
index, using e.g., a mixture of local material costs and the US
Bureau of Reclamation, at the end of the year considered and M.
the same price index at the beginning of the year.
The coefficients a, b, c,are to be determined by dividing the
costs of EdH in three groups as follows: those which are independent
of inflation, and those which vary with salary and material costs.
A first approximation for calculating the coefficients a, b, and c
for each tariff category is the following:
a) maintenance: one third labor (S) and two thirds materials (M);
b) transport, construction and equipment, and administrative costs:
three quarters labor (S) and one quarter material (M);
c) financial costs: fixed.
The mechanics of the application of these adjustments will have to
be worked out with EdH during the year 1977 (in time for their
initial application in October 1977).



ANNET 8
Page 3 of 3 pages
5.         During negotiations the government and EdH  confirmed that they will:
a) Implement, not later than October 1, 1976, the new electricity
tariff structure and levels as shown in attachment 2 of this annex,
for the metropolitan area of Port-au-Prince;
b) Implement, not later than October 1, 1977, a national tariff
structure and levels following the example of the tariff structure
mentioned in (a) above; and
c) Seek the concurrence of the Association before implementing any
changes in tariffs prior to December 31, 1983.
Attachments



ANNEX 8
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2 pages
EdH's Retail Electricity Rates (as of December 1975)
tin Ub)
Tariff
A.1  Private, residential,           energy charge: first 2OkWh               0.12/kWh
lighting                                       next 20 kWh               0.114/kWh
excess                   0.108/kWh
minimum bill             1.00
deposit                  2.00
A.2  Commercial lighting             energy charge: first 20kWh               0.12/kWh
next 20 kWh             0.114/kWh
excess                   0.108/kWh
minimum bill             1.50
deposit                  3.00
B.   Motive Power                    energy charge: first 150 kWh             0.09/kWh
next 450 kWh             0.07/kWh
excess                   0.06/kWh
minimum bill             2.50 or
0.50/HP
connected if
more than 5HP
are connected
deposit                  5.00
M.   Private lighting and
heating combined                energy charge: first 40 kWh             0.10/kWh
next 60 kWh              0.083/kWh
next 900 kWh            0.03/kWh
excess                  0.025/kWh
The above tariff is valid up to 8 kW of maximum demand. Above 8 kW
an additional US$2.00 per kW of demand is charged in addition.
minimum bill             4.00
deposit                  estimated 2
month bill
E.   Commercial luminous signs
(with a maximum demand of       energy charge: first 10 kWh             0.07/kWh
2 kW)                                           next 10 kWh              0.06/kWh
excess                   0.05/kWh
With a maximum demand of more than 2 kW, an additional charge of US$2.00 per
kW is added.
minimum bill             1.00
deposit                  3.00
D.1 Power in general
above 7 1/2 HP low tension      demand charge: first 50 kW               2.00/kW
excess                   1.50/kW
energy charge: first 100 kWh            0.04/kWh
excess                  0.03/kWh
minimum bill             2.00/kW of
installed
capacity



ANNEX 8
Attachement 1
Page 2 of 2 pages
D.   Industrial power
3 phase low tension             demand charge: first 50 kW              2.00/kW
excess                  1 .50/kW
energy charge: first 100 kWh            0.04/kWh
next 100 kWh            0.03/kWh
excess                  0.02/kWh
minimum bill             2.00 of
installed
capacity
K.   High voltage (distribution)
power off-peak                  energy charge: first 60 kWh             0.04/kWh
next 60 kWh             0.03/kWh
next 60 kwh             0.02/kWh
excess                  0.15
This tariff is valid at off-peak hours and has a penalty for a power factor
below 80% and a premium for power factor above 85%.
minimum bill            0.50/HP
connected
X.  Power for Irrigation
3 phase, below 50 kW            energy charge                           0.03/kWh
minimum bill            0.50/HP
connected
Power for Irrigation
3 phase, above 50 kW           energy charge                            0.025/kWh
minimum bill          500.00 annually



ANNEX 8
T-tacFhment 2
New Tariff Structure and Levels
(in UJS$)
Tariff
1. High Tension (69 and 11.5 kV)            demand charge       0.77/kW of maximum
demand
energy charge      0.023/kWh between
9pm - 7am
0.050/kWh between
7am - 9pm
2.  Middle Tension (2.1, 1.i6 and 12.47 kV)
(this includes low tension loads
above 40 kW, connected directly to
the distribution transformer)          demand charge       1.1/kW of maximum
demand
energy charge       0.026/kWh between
9pm - 7am
0.355/kWh between
7am - 9pm
3. Low tension
3.1 Public lighting                                         0.088/kWh
3.2 Small industrial (less than 40 kW connected load)    0.055/kWh
3.3 Residential, commercial,
public services, etc.               first 30 kWh        0.055/kWh
next 30 kWh         0.066/kwh
excess              0.073/kWh
minimum bill        1.65
4.  In cases 1 and 2 monthly average power factors below 0.85 will be penalized
by adding 1% of the total bill for every 0.01 that the power factor decreases
below 0.85.
5.  The above tariffs are estimated to produce revenues to meet a rate of return
for 1977 of 7%. These tariffs will be adjusted at least once a year to
permit EdH to earn its covenanted rates of return, taking into account re-
valued fixed assets and cost variations in fuel, labor and materials.
6.  EdH will continue to apply a 50% discount to billings to: a) the Autonomous
Agencies through December 31, 1976; and b) the Government Services through
May 31, 1977. After these dates all public services will be billed at the
full rate.
May 5, 1976



AN1lEX 9
Page 1 of 3 pages
APPRAISAL FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Training
1.        EdH employs less than ten graduate engineers and a very limited
quantity of qualified technicians. This has led to seriously low professional
standards, inadequate and practically non-existent preventive maintenance,
and a complete lack of planning capability.  In addition, the quality of
EdH's personnel occupied in operation is wel] below standard.
2.        As EdH's management is fully aware of the importance of adequate training
for its personnel, during appraisal and during negotiations of the contract with
SOFRELEC for the UNDP preinvestment study  a comprfehensive training program was
discussed with EdH's general manager and SOFRELEC and the following conclusions
were reached:
(a)   8 engineers would be sent to be trained at Electricite de France
(EdF); 4   would be trained in the operation and maintenance of
transmission and distribution systems; 2 in diesel generation and
2 in hydro generation.
(b)   2 engineers would get on-the-job training both in Haiti and in
Paris in planning while working with SOFRELEC on the long-termr
preinvestment study.
(c)   2 qualified accountants would be trained in budgeting, cash flow
projections, discounted cash flow, etc., in Haiti by SOFRELEC. The
2 engineers mentioned in (b) would also receive this training.
(d)   EdH's accounting personnel would receive training in using the new
accounting system, budgeting and control procedures that the
Association and EdH have agreed should be implemented. This
training would be carried out in Port-au-Prince by Howell and Co.
a US accounting consultant.
(e)   13 technicians would be trained, during academic year 1976-1977
in maintenance of distribution systems at the training center
being built in Haiti by UNDP, ILO and FAC (FOlID d'Aide et de
Cooperation - French technical assistance).
(f)   Technicians and qualified workers would be trained in the operation
and maintenance of diesel engines by two experts from Sofremines
(Franice). This training would be done on site.
(g)     A small training center would be constructed and equipped on
site of the present thermal generating station in Port-au-Prince.



2 9
Page 2 of 3 pages
The objective of this center would be two-fold, viz:
(i)  To establish a basic orientA.!on course for newly recruited
techniclans in the various fields of generationi, trar.s-
missiorn and d1stribution.
(ii)  To conduct up-gradirg courses of short duratior for
existing personrnel., particularly- in the maintenance of
diesel-generating plant. and distribution systems.
To erable the training center to mneet its objectives, the
followiirng faciliti.es will be provided:
(i)  Two classroom]s which will also serve as basic electrical
laboratori es.
(ii)  One mechanical wort-shop nor trainirg in genexal fitting
and machine-tool operation.
(iii.) One diesel-electrical work1shop for training ir the
mairtenance of diesel engines and rotating electrical
mach.ines.
(iv)  One covered area with a concrete base for training in
overhead di-tribution systems, safety andl protection
systems, switchgear andi transformers.
(v)  Office, toilet and storeroom acconriodation.
(vi)  Equipiaent comprising basic electricity training Vits,
fittin herches, hand-tools. Tachire tools, diesel- engines,
alternators, motors, transformers and distribution/
protection system mock--up.
The estimated cost (allowinr  15' ner price escal.ation) of this
center is:
(i)  For building    -   US$5O0,000
(ii)  yor equipment   -  US$100,000
This training center will. be directed by the training  officer
of EdH and would be staffed by local personnel trained at the
center mentioned in paragr aph  2.(e).
(h)  To complement. this trainr-ng effort, a neu policy of recruitment
of persornel will be implemerted.  \A new technical secondary school
(CAMADO), built an(i staffed by C"I t.diar bilateral aid has just opened.
Eventuallvy  it is expected to nrorluce 60 gradk.es per year with
good mathematics and scienae bac .--cro,rds 3nd with basic skills in



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3 pages
mechanical and electric subjects. EdH will liaise with the staff
of this school to make permanent arrangements to recruit new
technical personnel therefrom.
3.        The necessary financing envisaged for the above-mentioned training
activities is as follows:
(a)  The training components mentioned in paragraphs2a, 2b, and 2c
would be financed by the UNMDP-financed long-term pre-investment
study for the power sector.
(b) The components mentioned in paragraphs 2d and 2g would be financed
by the proposed credit.
(c) The training components mentioned in paragraphs 2e and 2f would be
financed by French Bilateral Aid, through FAC.
During implementation, the progress of all the various elements of
the manpower, development policy outlined above should be carefully evaluated
against,the stated objectives and, if necessary, the longer-term training
needs of EdH should be identified.



Annex 10
APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EDH)
Estimated Disbursement Schedule of Credit
(in millions of US dollars)
Assumptions
Loan approval:                      June    , 1976
Effective date:                     September 30, 1976
Closing date:                       September 30, 1978
Cumulative
Disbursed       disbursement
IBRD/IDA                                         during           at end of
fiscal year            Quarter ending             quarter         quarter
1976/77              September 30, 1976             -                   _
December 31, 1976             5.84               5.84
March 31, 1977                2.25                8.09
June 30, 1977                 2.25              10.34
1977/78              September 30, 1977             2.10              12.44
December 31, 1977             2.06              14.50
March 31, 1978                0.10               14.60
June 30, 1978                 0.30              14.90
1978/79              September 30,1978              1.1               16.00
November 1975
Revision A -December 9, 1975
Source: Appraisal Estimates



ANNEX 11
kPPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT (HAITI)
ELECTRICITE_d'Haiti (EdH)
Performance Indicators
1975        1976        1977        1978
(Est.)               (Projected)
Market Penetration
GWh sold - total                        106.3         142.3      185.4        203.7
- industrial                    52.0          83.2      120.0        134.0
- residential                   31.0          31.9       32.9         33.9
Number of customers (000)
- total                         32.5          33.5       37.5         47.0
- residential                   26.0         27.3        30.0         33.0
Percent of households served
- Port-au-Prince                26.0         27.3        30.0         33.0
- provinces                      3.3          3.4         3.5          3.6
KWh sold/capita                          21.3          28.0        35.9        38.8
Efficiency Indicators
Number of employees                     500           540        576          650
Customers/employee                       65            62         65           72
GWh sold/employee                           .21          .26         .32         .32
System losses (% net generation)         32            30          28          26
Financial Indicators
Rate of return (%)                        4.1           5.0         7.0         7.0
Self-financing ratiol/(%)                82            47         20           30
Operating ratio                             .74           .75        .69         .66
Debt service coverage
(including outstanding overdraft)        0.9           0.5        0.9         1.8
Receivables as % of sales
- Government                   100           100         12.5         12.5
- other                         12.5          12.5       12.5         12.5
Depreciation as % of average
gross fixed assets                       2.8           2.8        2.9          3.0
Trained Personnel
2/
Number of technicians- trained           20            50         50           30
Number trained in accounting              5             7         10           12
1/ Net internal cash generation plus customer contributions
expressed as a percentage of total construction expenditures.
2/ Includes specialized workers.
May 19, 1976



APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EDH)
Actual and Estimated Income Statemeents 1972-81
(in thousands of US dollars)
----------Actual------------       Estimate        ---------_----------------Forecast----------------------------
Note         1972        1973         1974         1975         1976         1977         1978          1979        1980          1981
Year Ergilng Se_
Electricity Sales (GWh)                    1            61.7        75.9         89.9        106.3        142.3        185.4        203.7        225.2        241.8         260.3
Losses (%  Generation)                                 36.o         33.0         33.0         32.0         30.0         28.0         26.0         24.0          19.0         17.0
Unit Sales Revenue (US/kWh)               1             4.90        4.80         4.73         4.81         4.81         5.16          5.38         5.92         6.48         6.83
Sales Revenue                              1        3,023,0      3,634.9      4,254.9      5,095.3      6,844.6      9,499.0    10,927.7    13,207.6    15,671.0    17,786.0
Operating Expenses
Fuel - new thermal                       2                                                                           231.5      1,679.7      2,126.4      2,327.6      2,668.1
Fuel - existing thermal                 2           257.3        164.5        294.8        393.0        947.7      1,668.5
Materials and supplies                   3          336.9        332.4        397.8        445.0        810.6        875.4        940.2      1,010.7      1,081.4       1,157.1
Salaries                                4           752.2        907.3        962.7      1,257.9      1,418.9      1,589.2      1,770.3      1,973.9      2,191.0      2,432.1
Miscellaneous                            5          266.o        306.6        361.8        419.7        473.4        530.2        590.7         658.6        731.1        811.5
Depreciation                             6          520.0      1,000.0      1,000.0      1 230 8      1 393 4      1 685.0      2,231.0      2,890.0      3 508 0      3 940.0
Total                                          2            2,712.3      3,022.0      3,7                        65.-        7,211.9      b,659.6        81 1008.8
Net Operating Income                       7           756.7        922.6     1,232.9      1,348.9      1,800.6      2,919.2      3,715.8       4,638.0      5,832.0      6,778.o
Less:  Interestcharged to operations                    18.9       313.6        330.1        264.1        933.3        432.5        352.5       1,785.6      1 732.5      1,681.5
Net Income                                             737.8        ;09.         902.8     1,0784.7                            3,96. 2,                       85 .   5,096.5
Average Net Fixed Assets                                *            *            *       32,744       36,017       41,704       53,083        66,270       77,761       84,731
Rate of Return                                                                                  4.1          5.0          7.0          7.0          7.0          7.5          8.0
Note: Numbers refer to explanatory paragraphs in annex 16.
* The rates of return for FY1972, 73 and 74 are not available because the value of EdH's average net fixed assets for those years cannot be ascertained.
January 1976
Revise February 1976
Revised May 1976



APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Estimated Sources and Uses of Funds 1975-1981
(in thousands of US dollars)
Total                                                        Total
Year Ending September 30                           1975          1976         1977         1978              1976-78          1979         1980          1981             1976-8T
Note
SOURCES
Net Operating Income                            1,349        1,800         2,919        3,716               8,435         4,638         5,832         6,778             25,683
Depreciation                                    1231         1,393         1,685        2,231               5 309         2 890         3,508         3,940             15 647
Total                                        2,500        3,193         4 4          5,947              13,74                        9,340        10718              41,33
Less:  Debt Service (see Annex 15)              1,050        2 391         1,222        1 100               4 713         2 442         2,409         2 084             11 648
Net Internal Cash Generation                    1,530                      3,302          I                 9t,o                        6,931                           29,2
Customer Contributions                            100          110           120          130                 360           140           150           160                810
Total                                        1,630          912         3,502        4,977       9        ,391         5,226         7,01                            30,492
New Financing
Proposed IDA Credit and interest capitalized                              12,990        4,818              17,808                                                       17,808
Proposed German loan (Gonaives)                                            1,000        2,100               3,100                                                        3,100
Government Contributions                                        300        1,500        1,000               2,800                                                          80
Future Foreign Loan                   8                                                 6 500               6,5oo         8,4oo         1 400                           16 300
Total New Financing                         _____300                   15 490       1t T                30208          819
TOTAL SOURCES                             1,630                                  1,91395             7                             8794 T2tT500
USES
Construction Expenditure
First Power Project (IDA)                         300        1,300        14,400        2,332              18,032                                                       18,032
Gonaives Project                                                           1,200        2,700               3,900                                                        3,900
Second Power Project                  8                                                 6,700               6,700        10,400         1,400                           18,500
Other Projects                                  1,700          635         1,736        3,734               6,105         2,600         6,400         8,1oo             23,20%
Capitalized Interest                                                         550        1,258               1,808                                                        ,808
Total Construct ion                          2,000        1,935        17,886       16,724             36,545         13,000         7,800         8,100             65,445
Other Uses
Repayment of Government Receivables  9            -            (900)        (900)                          (1,800)                                                       (1,800)
Increase in Receivables                           655          298           281          171                 750           274           275           248              1,547
Increase in Inventory                             500          200           250          300                 750           350           400           450              1,950
Decrease in Overdraft                          (1,505)         (300)       1,495        2,220               3,415            -            -             -                 3,415
Increase (Decrease) in Other Current
Assets                                          (20)          (20)         (20)          (20)               (60)           (20)         (20)          (20)               (120)
Total                                          370)       t2            1,106        2,671               3,055                                       678
Cash Surplus                                      -                                                                           22           26            16                  64
TOTAL USES                                1,630        1,21Z        18,992       19                 39959          13,626         8             8740,0
Note: Numbers refer to explanatory paragraphs in Annex 16.
December 1975                                                                                                                                                                            W
Revised January 1976
Revised February 1976
Revised May 1976



APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EDH)
Actual and Estimated Balance Sheets 1972-1981
(in thousands of US dollars)
As oi September 30                                                Actual        Estimated        ------------------------------Projected---------------------------------
Note         1974           1975           1976           1977          1978           1979          1980           1981
ASSETS
Gross fixed assets                                10, 11       41,000         46,920          52,612        63,821         81,927        98,481        i14,875       123,916
Less:  Accumulated depreciation                   10, 11       10,000         12 431         15,067         17 957        21 624         26,244         31 589        37 740
Net fixed assets                                        31,000                         37,545         5        6,72,237 28 
Work in progress                                                   -           1 000           1,935        12, 821        16 545        19,545         17,845         24.945
Total                                                        3,035,                        39,40          5                                          101,131 
CMBURR ASSETS
Cash and banks                                                       4             4               4             4              4            26             52             68
Receivable from sales                                 12        1,820          2,475           1,873         1,254          1,425         1,699          1,974          2,222
Other receivables                                                   10            10              10            10             10            10             10             10
Materials and supplies                                           1,617         2,117           2,317         2,567          2,867         3,217          3,617          4,067
Prepayments                                                         81            91             101           111            121           131            141            151
Total current assets                                          3,232                          4,005         3,9             ,2            ,3            5,794         6,518
Deferred debts                                                      22            22              22            22             22             22            22             22
Total assets                                                 37,554          2,308           3,07         62,653 37,296                                             1
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Ed - capital                                                    24,779        24,779          24,772        24,779         24,779        24,779         24,779         24,779
Retained earnings                                     13           830         1,281           3,040         6,430          9,798        12,650         16,749         21,845
Government contribution                                            -            -                300         1,800          2,800          2,800         2,800          2,800
Revaluation surplus                                   11           _           3720            7,169        10,173         13,843        18 667         23 724         29 554
Total                                                         25,60935,234                                               51,  4                                      79,232
Long- and medium-term debt
GIE (Buppliers Credit)                           1,731          1,220            737            348
Compagnie Eclairage                                                400           200
Cement d'Haiti                                                     150            75
ONA                                                              2,400        .2,400           1,700         1,300            900            500           100
Govt lean (leA)                                                                                             12,990         17,808         17,554        17,277         16,974
Govt loan (KifD)                                                                                             1,000          3,100          3,100         3,100          3,100
Future foreign debt                                                                                            -            6 500        14,900         16 300         16,300
Total                                    4,681 3                                                 7        15,638                                      36,07         3t6,374
Current liabilities
Accounts payable                                                    135           150             165            180           195            210           225            240
Customer deposits                                                   434           459             464           469            474            479           484            489
Bank overdraft                                                    1,910         3,415           3,715         2,220
Other                                                                59            69              79         -  89             99            109           119            129
Total                                                           2,58          4,093           4,739         2,958            76             798  v
Deferred credits                                        13        1,420         1,800             goo             -             -              -              -             -
Contribution in aid of construction                                 286           386             496           616            746            886         1 036          1,196
Total liabilities and capital                                  34,554        42,308          43,807        62,653             96,888 10           6 ,947 li7         66
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                                                          _._                                  
15/85        11/89           6/94           27/73         36/64          38/62         35/65         32/68
Note:  Numbers refer to explanatory paragraphs in annex 16.                                                                                                                                -r
February 1976
Revised May 1976



A PPAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - DAITI
ELECTRICITE D' HAITI (EDII)
Estimated Debt Service 1975-1981.
(In thousands of US dollars
1975         1976          1977         1978          1979          1980         1981
Year Ending September 30
Amortization
Office Nationale d'Assurance (ONA)                                 700.01        Wm           Om            400.0         400.0         100.0
GIE (Suppliers Credit) 2/                               511.3        483.0         389.0        348.o
Compagnie Eclairage                                     200.0        200.0
Ciment d'Haiti                                           75.0         75 o
Subtotal Existing Debt                              T763        1,458  0        759.0        7480                        hoo.o  ioo.o    0
Proposed IDA Credit                                                                                           254.6         276.6         302.7
Total Amortization                                   706.3      1,458.0         789.0        748.          T77          'or           h02.7
Interest
Office Nationale d'Assurance (ONA)                                 643.o-'/     127.5         90.0          60.0          30.0           4.0
Compagnie Eclairage                                    17.5          7.5
Ciment d'Haiti                                          6.6          2.8
Bank Overdraft                                        240.0        280.0         280.0        160.0
Subtotal Existing Debt                               264.1        933.3         707.       - 250.0          60.0          30.0        4-0
Proposed IDA Credit 4/                                                             550.5      1,258.5       1,570.6       1,547.5      1,522.5
German Loan                                                                      25.0        102.5         155.0         155.0         155.0
Total Interest                                       264.         933.3         483.0      1,361.0       1,78G7        1,732.5       1,681.5
Less Interest capitalized                                                          550.5      1,258.5
Interest charged to operations                          264.1        933.3         432.5         352.5      1,785.6       1,732.5       1,681.5
Total Debt Service (net of interest
capitalized)                    1,050.4      2,391.3       1,221.5       1 loo  5     2,442.2       2,409.1       2,084.2
Notes:  1/  Including principal payment of US$300,000 due in 1975
2/  Including an unknown amount of interest.
3/ Including payment of US$493,000 of accumulated interest not paid in 1975.
7/ Onlending terms of IDA Credit assumed to be 25 years including 2 years of grace at 8.85 per year interest.
Interest during construction on the IDA credit amounting to US$550,500 in 1977 and US$1,258,500 has
been capitalized.
*  EdH's Fiscal Year is October 1 - September 30.                                                                                          Ik
December 1975
Revised May 1976



Annex 16
Page 1 of 5 pages
APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Assumptions Made in Financial Projections
Income Statement: Revenues
1.        Forecast electric energy sales used in the financial projections
were those contained in the conclusions of SOFRELEC's study. These were
checked in the field and revised during appraisal (see paragraph 4.03).
Sales rvennues were projected on the assumption that average tariffs would
be adjusted each year to permit EdH to earn the covenanted rates of return
on revalued assets detailed below:
Year                Rate of return (%)
1976                       5.0
1977                       7.0
1978                        7.0
1979                        7.0
1989                        7.5
1981                        8.o
See also rtote lLt below.
Income Statement: Expenses
2.        Fuel expenses have been forecast using the costs in 1975 as a base
and adjusted for price increase using ihdices of international inflation
published by the Bank.1/ The existing thermal plant uses diesel oil at a cost
of 4.1 US cents per kW'h and the new thermal will use Bunker C at a cost of
1.8 US cents per kWh. Price indices used are summarised below:
Year                   Price index
1975                      1.000
1976                     1.088
1977                      1.175
1978                     1.262
1979                     1.357
1980                      1.452
1981                     1.553
1/  I3RD Commodity forecasts, November 26, 1975.



Annex 16
Page 2 of 5 pages
3.        Material and supplies expense for 1975 were estimated on the basis
of extrapolations of actual expenses through July. The current level is grossly
inadequate resulting in inadequate maintenance. The engineering consultants
and the appraisal team estimate that an additional expenditure of US$300,000
over the 1974 level (in 1975 constant terms) will be needed annually for materials
and supplies to replace miscellaneous old elements and to attain a reasonable
level of maintenance. Materials for maintenance of new equipment was conservatively
estimated to result in an annual real increase of about 4% over the 1975 level.
Price adjustments were made in accordance with the forecast rates of international
inflation for equipment (see paragraph 10).
4.        Salaries for the fiscal year 1975 were determined by taking actual
salaries paid through July 1975 (from EdH financial statements) and extrapolating
for the remaining two months of the fiscal year. Analysis of EdH's personnel
requirements over the forecast period showed that the total wage bill will
increase at about 4% per year (in real terms); therefore, an allowance of 4%
per year real growth has been made in the forecasts. Since 1972 EdH's board
has granted general salary increases to compensate for inflation. These
increases have, as a rule been based on the Consumer Price Index in Port-au-
Prince and EdH's management expected this practice to continue. Estimates of
the Consumer Price Index for Port-au-Prince over the forecast period were not
available at the time of appraisal.  However, analysis shows th,at it has in
the past followed worldwide inflationary trends very closely;,1 and therefore,
in the absence of any clear indications of a radical departure from this trend,
(the Haitian economy being a relatively open one), the Bank's forecast of
international inflation has been used as a proxy for the CPI in Port-au-Prince.
The table below summarizes the escalation factors for labor costs:
Price                Real              Total
Year           Increase (%)        Increase (M)        Increase (%)
1976                8.8                  4.0               12.e
1977                8.0                  4.O               12.0
1978                7.4                  4.0               11.4
1979                7.5                  4.0               11.5
1980                7.0                  4.0               11.0
1981                7.0                  4.0               11.0
5.        Miscellaneous expenses  consist essentially of local expenditures.
It has in the past increased at about the same rate as local inflation.  The
forecast assumes continuation of this trend. In addition allowance for a real
growth of 4% per year on account of anticipated real salary increases and
maintenance costs has been made. The composition of this expense item in 1974
is as shown below:
1/ Regression analysis shows that over the period 1955-1974 the Consumer Price
Index in Port-au-Prince published by the Haitian National Bank had a high
degree of correlation and statistical significance with the Index of Inter-
national inflation compiled by the Bank's Commodities and Exports Projections
division. A linear regression with Port-au-Prince's Consumer Price Index as
dependent variable (y), and the Index of International inflation as indepen-
dent variable (X), yields the equation y = 5.4 + 0.9x; a correlation coef-
ficient of 0.976; a T-statistic of 19.177; and a coefficient of variation
of only 0.049,



Annex 16
Page 3 of 5 pages
Amount (US$)              %
Employee benefits                      113,392               31.3
Insurance                              81),898               22.6
Contracted services                     37,776               10.4
Damages and claims                      30,208                8.3
Pension                                 25,438                7.0
Rent                                     4,250                1.2
Others                                 68 868               19.0
Total                               3OO.
Total ~~~~~~~~ij Tt5                            100.0
6.        Depreciation rates used were those contained in the recommendations
of the assets study by the accounting consultants. Some typical values are
summarized below:
Equipment 7xrpe               Depreciation Rate
Hydro plant                            2%
Diesel Generator                       4%
Distribution                           4%
Transmission                           3.3%
Office Equipment                      20%
7.        Net operating income  for each forecast year is the required per-
centage of average net fixed assets in service as detailed in paragraph 1,
Sources and Uses of Funds
8.        The second stage of the short-term development program would probably
consist of installation of 3x7.5 MW thermal units plus associated transmission
and distribution facilities to meet the forecast demand in Port-au-Prince in
1980. The total cost of this stage is estimated at US$18.5 million of which
US$16 million would be foreign exchange costs. Sources of financing for the
foreign costs are as yet unknown. Subject to implementation of the tariff
recommendations, EdH would be able to finance the local costs from internal
resources.
9.        An estimated US$1.7 million of EdH's accounts receivable on December
31, 1975 is due to unpaid electricity sales to the central government and
US$100,000 to autonomous public sector agencies over the period 1971-1975. As
agreed by the government, this would be liquidated by M4ay 1977.
Balance Sheet: Assets
10.       SOFRELEC's accounting consultants have estimated the
fixed assets at year-end 1974 at about US$41 million, of which US$10 million
had been depreciated. Provisions were made during negotiations for annual
revaluations of EdHts assets in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
The projections assume annual revaluation at the same rates as the forecast
international inflation for equipment.  These were 12% in 1975, 10% in 1976,
8% in 1977 through 1979, and 7% in 1980 and 1981.
11.       The revaluation is also applied to accumulated depreciation and the
balance is applied to the Revaluation Surplus account. The year-by-year changes
in EdlH's assets, depreciation accounts and surplus from Revaluation are shown
below in thousands of US dollars:



Annex 16
Page 4 of 5 pages
October 1
Fixed assets in service       balance        Capitalized       Revaluation
1974-75                41,000           1,000             4,920
1975-76                46,920           1,000             4,692
1976-77                52,612           7,000             4,209
1977-78                63,821          13,000             5,106
1978-79                81,927          lo,ooo             6,554
1979-80                98,481           9,500             6,894
1980-81              114,875            1,000             8,041
1981-82              123,916
October 1         Annual
Accumulated depreciation     balance           provision       Revaluation
1974-75               10,000            1,231             1,200
1975-76               12,431            1,393             1,243
1976-77               15,067            1,685             1,204
1977-78               17,957            2,231             12436
1978-79               21,624            2,890             1,730
1979-80               26,244            3,5D8             1,837
1980-81               31,589            A940              2,211
1981-82               37,740
October 1
Revaluation surplus          balance              Annual provision
1974-75                  _                    3,720
1975-76                 3,720                 3,449
1976-77                 7,169                 3,oo4
1977-78                10,173                 3,670
1978-79               13,843                  4,824
1979-80                18,667                 5,057
1980-81                23,724                 5,830
1981-82                29,554
12.       For the fiscal years 1974 and 1975, accounts receivable includes all
electric power sales to the public sector and 1-1/2 months of sales to the other
consumer categories. For 1976 and 1977 accounts receivables is made up of 1-1/2
month's sales plus December 1975 public sector receivables less repayments of govern-
ment overdue bills-(see para. 6.04 of text). For 1978 and thereafter, accounts
receivable consists of 1-1/2 month's sales. -
Balance Sheet: Liabilities and Capital
13.        EdH's accounting applies the outstanding government receivables to a
deferred credit account. As these receivables are liquidated they would be credit-
ed to retained earnings.



Annex 16
Page T of 5 pages
1b.       Application of Rate Covenant.  The value of existing EdH assets in
the provinces will not be known until the completion of the on-going UIDP
financed study therefore, neither the assets of the provinces nor the revenues
there have been included in the financial projections. In view of this for the
fiscal years 1976 and 1977 the covenanted rates of return will be applied to
EdilTS operations in the metropolitan Port-au-Prince area only. For 1978 and
thereafter the rates of return will be applied to EdH's operations in the
provinces as well as in the metropolitan Port-au-Prince area. The revenues and
assets in the provinces are currently estimated at less than 10< of EdH's
operations, therefore, their quantitative effect on EdiT's performance in
fiscal years 1976 and 1977 would be minimal.






ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EDH)
ORGANIZATION CHART
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER
TECHNICAL MANAGER     J                                       ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGER
- | TRAINING  j  :      i STUDIES & I                         I BUDGETING                  FINANCIAL'
TRAIINGI                PLANNING  I                         IIPLAN IN
L - En -;+! - -                                                              
PROVINES   PRTECTI NETWORKS   GENERATION          PERSONNEL      LEGAL      CONTROLLER    ACCOUNT       CIAL
KEY
r      1 PROPOSED CHANGES                                                                         World Bank-15743






APPRAISAL OF FIRST POWER PROJECT - HAITI
ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
Project ImplementatIon Schedule
24                s |
SMALL DIESEL UNITS
d1|                    .X77'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ell.17
1015  5    1810       ~~~10  2  o        20     488        15      644        8       72277
/ITRIBUN WOPRESENTATIONK
!   OCTOBER . 172
_?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
DISTRAIUTION WORKS
44
<+ AR6E DIESEL UNITSI
B  OARD PRESENTATION 
s=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                 - -------    -
28                       6                  6                  E                 49                 1 2 
\,TRANSMISSION WORKS
W.rld 8.nk-16768



ANNEX 1 8
Attachment
NOTES FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1. All times are in weeks
2.  Description of activities
A  -  Small diesel units and distribution works.
I - 2 Preparation of bidding documents
2 - 3 Bid preparation
3 - 1  Bid evaluation, contract award and down payment with government
funds
1 -    Presentation of the credit to IIT  Board of Directors
- .. Signature of the credit agreement
6 - 7 Eff'ectiveness of the credit
! - 8( Partial fabrication until second payment out of proceeds of credit
- 9  Civil works
- 10 Final fabrication factory tests and transport
10 - 11 Erection
11 - 12 On-site tests
1 - 13 Preparation of bidding documents
13 - 1l Bid preparation
I- 1V-  Bid evaluation,contract award and down payment
I vl- 16 Partial fabrication until second payment out of proceed of credit
16 - 17 Final fabrication. factory tests and transport
17 - 12 Erection
B  -  Largfe diesel units and transmission works.
1 - 18 Same as A
1  - 19 On-site tests



___________________________                                                                                                                                            IBRD-12 154~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBR  -125
USA  ~ ~ ~ !,~A~tIDUVALIEIR_VILL                                                                                                                                                                                            MAY 1976
"1                          ~~~~~~~~~~72 45
I                  -~~~VW                                CROIX DES MISSIONSHAT
~  ~       DOMteCANRP65BSI tcn z                                                                                                                                       APPRAISAL OF POWER  PROJECT
~~~ ~~~~    -->  ~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~J                                                                      PELIDRE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
JOMAiCA                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CRCOIXDES OQUETS          PORT-AU-PRINCE ELECTRIC SYSTEM
C~~5A>6Y~~~~AN  -                -               STAT c                                                -                      Power Station        Prolect   Future    Existing~~~~~~~~~Prjec    Fuure Exitin
-                                         I ~~~~~~~IA-Poe   tcto
-~~~~-i ~~~Substation 
>OInU  j                   ~~~~~~Transmission Lines     i        *    __
(              - ~*.-                              I      I                 I                                      I                        Port-Au-Prince Metropolitan Area
Wo, ~dptnibe4 enmeuu                               -                                                           IAEGEFAR                                  k-                       TO PETiONVILLE, KENSKOFF
-          3MVA~~~~~~~~                                                          us$  -, 7~EFRAD                TO HAUT DELMAS
~~7  vd Vli'  ~     -'                                     '
LA LUE  ~~~~~~~~,  t~~~~~IvAT~~~~~  - ~~18030,
r--  EXITINGOtEEL                                                        CANAPE _-  VURT
POWER STATION                  ~~~~PT. MORIN       r                                             P:TlOLNVILLE~
z                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20km:
j2 X 10 M VA
TOLtEOGANE                      1247k IV                                                                                                                                                           -
5               10
KILMETERS'
CGAtRK  PI,Rr           ~          L     MARITI                             -\ -N-        - -N
-e  -                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
CARREFOUR FEUILLES
*12.47 k, lasiso Lin to be Tr-slr-ed to 69 kv



