F  lIE  C OPY         Document of                   C~~~~IRCULATING COPY
FILE         COPY                       Document of          TO BE RETURNED TO
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1786a-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
FIRST POWER PROJECT
June 3, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit      Gourde (G)
US$1       G5.00
G1       US$0.20
G1 Million      US$200,000
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
Units and Measures
GWh                   Gigawatt hour = 1 million kWh
kWh                3  kilowatt hour
km                    kilometer   0.62 mile
kW                    kilowatt
MW                    Megawatt   1,000 kW
kV                     kilovolt
Abbreviations and Acronyms
EdH                    Electricite d'Haiti
SOFRELE            -   Societe Francaise d'Etudes et de
Realisation d'Equipements Electriques



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVEWPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPOIT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO
THE EXECUIIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A FIRST POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit uo the Republic of Haiti for the equivalent of US$16
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a first power project. The
credit would be onleht by the Government to Electricite d'Haiti (EdH) at an
interest rate of 8.85 percent with a repayment period of 25 years, including
a grace period of two years.
PART I - THE ECONCMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Haiti, Report No. 410-HA
entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti" was issued on
April 18, 1974. A Bank Economic Mission visited Haiti during March/April of
this year and is currently preparing a new report. Updated social and econo-
mic data are presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti is one of the poorest nations in the world, and the only
country in the Western Hiemisphere included in the U.N. list of 25 least
developed nations. GNP per capita in 1975 stood at about US$170. An infant
mortality rate of about 150 per thousand live births, an average life expec-
tancy of 48 years, low nutrition and sanitation standards (malnutrition and
gastro-enteric diseases account for over half the deaths in the country) and
an adult literacy rate of about 20 percent characterize the depressed living
standards of the population.
4.        The country's natural resources are limited. Of the country's
total area, only about 1.5 percent is well suited to agriculture although
twice as much is actually under cultivation. The remaining 70 percent is
too arid and steep for cultivation. The average density of population is
nearly 500 per square kilometer of arable land, one of the highest in the
world. In addition, much of the country suffers from frequent hurricanes,
floods and droughts. Krnown mineral resources are modest, consisting of
bauxite, copper and ligrnite. There is, nevertheless, scope for expansion of.
agricultural output thrcugh improvement of presently low levels of product-
ivity. The country's proximity to the U.S. market, and the availability of
abundant labor provide the basis for industrial development while Haiti's
striking scenery and distinctive culture offer a potential for tourism.
5.        Economic growth and social progress have been hampered by periods
of political instability which did not permit the development of an adequate
technical and physical infrastructure. Inadequate maintenance reduced the
efficiency of the limited irrigation network. The lack of an adequate trans-
port infrastructure and its poor maintenance hampered the development of
commercial agriculture. Power generation capacity is also well below the
Latin American average.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bi disclosed without World Bank authorization.



6.        In marked contrast to the previous decade when the economy stagnated,
Haiti enjoyed some growth in 1968-74. Expansion of small-scale manufacturing
and assembly operations, tourism and construction led to real average annual
increases of GDP of about 3.6 percent while population grew at an estimated
annual rate of 1.7 percent. These activities contributed noticeably to improv-
ing economic conditions in Port-au-Prince. Employment in assembly operations,
for example, increased from 10,000 in 1971 to 20,000 in 1974. Agriculture,
however, which employ- 80 percent of Haiti's population and accounts for about
half of GDP and about 60 percent of merchandise exports has as yet shown little
dynamism. Progress in agriculture will require the adoption of improved pro-
duction techniques and provision of greater incentives to farmers, as well as
the improvement of transport facilities.
7.        In 1975, GDP growth fell to 1.2 percent. Agricultural output stagnated
mainly as a result of a severe drought which affected the northwestern part of
the country. Moreover, adverse economic conditions in the United States brought
about declines in exports of mining products, in orders for products of the light
assembly industry as well as in industrial investment. Construction activity
also slowed down significantly.
8.        In the past three years the Government has adopted several measures to
encourage agricultural production. In 1973 the specific tax on coffee which,
by absorbing a large share of export proceeds, weakened producer incentives
when international prices were low, was replaced by a progressive ad valorem
levy. In 1974 a nationwide five-year coffee production program was initiated
with the support of AID to provide small farmers with a package of technology,
credit, fertilizer and training. A substantial increase of the prices paid to
farmers for sugar cane and to the mills for sugar production was approved. The
export tax on sugar was lowered from its previous rate which was as high as 80
percent at the margin. The tax on agricultural products marketed domestically,
levied each time a commodity changed hands, was eliminated. In addition to
these measures, the Government intends to launch during the next two years impor-
tant investments in the agricultural sector. The projects, which are to be
located in different regions of the country, are designed to increase the level
of income and employment of the rural population.
9.        The Government is carrying out an important investment program in
which the provision of the country with infrastructure facilities, essential to
the development of the directly productive sectors, occupies a central place.
Public investment has grown at about 46 percent in real terms during 1975. In
the area of Port-au-Prince, projects are underway to expand and improve port
facilities and the water supply system. Major roads linking the northern and
southern regions of the country are being reconstructed. The Five-Year Develop-
ment Plan (1977-81) that the authorities are currently preparing is expected to
stress regional development. In addition to projects directly concerned with
increasing agricultural production, the Plan envisages the extension of health,
sanitation and education services to the rural population. Development expen-
ditures would increase from about US$37 million per year in 1973-75 to about
US$66 million per year in 1977-81.



10.       The successful execution of such a program will require a substan-
tial increase in the flow of external assistance. In the period 1973-75 net
external lending financed only about 17.4 percent of development expenditures.
Official grants and private donations financed the equivalent of 36.9 percent.
The remaining was financed to the extent of 26.6 percent by public savings and
19. 1 percent by internal borrowing. On the basis of disbursements of already
committed loans and of likely future annual commitment levels of US$45-Us$5O
million, it is expected that net disbursements from official lending agencies
will finance about 52 percent of development expenditures in the period 1977-81.
Capital investment g:cants from bilateral agencies are expected to finance 8 per-
cent of development expenditures. Other official grants and private donations
are expected to continue to represent an important, albeit declining, share of
development expenditures (about 27 percent). Public savings would finance the
remaining 13 percent.
11.       Earmarking of tax revenues to finance public investment expenditures
as well as the operations of autonomous institutions has acquired increased
importance in Haiti during recent years. Earmarking has taken place at the
expense of the Central Government Operating Budget and led to a decline in real
terms since 1971 of Central Goverrment current expenditures. This has, in turn,
impeded badly needed improvements in the quality of public services. Earmark-
ing has also reduced the relative importance of the Central Government Budget
as an instrument for the allocation and control of public sector revenues.
The Government has initiated a detailed analysis of the origin and destination
of earmarked accounts which could provide a better insight into the economic
nature of public sector revenues and expenditures and the basis for a reform
of the budgetary system.
12.       The growth of public savings will in the future be constrained by the
need to substantially increase current expenditures in order to upgrade the
quality of public administration and to meet sharply rising operating expendi-
tures generated by new development projects in agriculture, education, health,
road maintenance and other sectors. In view of this constraint and because of
the extreme poverty of th,s country, its fragile balance of payments and the
severe limits to raising additional fiscal resources - taxes represent already
about 12 percent of GDP, no mean achievement for a country as poor as Haiti -
the successful execution of the development plan will require external financing
covering a high share of the cost of development projects, including some
financing of local costs.
13.       Haiti's balance of payments deteriorated in 1974 and 1975. The
deterioration in 1974 was largely explained by higher import prices. In 1975
the volume of bauxite, siEal and essential oils exports declined mainly as a
result of the world recession. Food imports increased sharply partly as a
result of the effects of a drought which reduced domestic production. In addi-
tion, substantial payments were made to finance public investment in the tele-
communication sector. As of September 30, 1975, end of the Haitian Fiscal Year,
net international reserves of the National Bank as well as those of the consoli-
dated banking system were negative on the order of US$4 43 million and US$24
million respectively, while gross reserves of the banking system were only



- 4 -
US$12.8 million. However, the situation improved in the last five months,
with an addition of US$9.2 million to the reserves. Net reserves of the
National Bank were at US$4.9 million as of February 28, 1976.
14.       At the Haitian Government's request, a high level Joint Consultative
Committee was established in January 1976. It includes representatives of the
Haitian Government as well as of multilateral and bilateral agencies actively
providing assistance to Haiti. The Committee's role is to coordinate foreign
assistance, both fin' ncial and technical. As one of its major functions, the
Committee,which should convene every six months, is to assess the availability
of counterpart funds for investment projects financed by external official
agencies, both required and likely to be available. The Committee will thus
be in a position of making recommendations to the Haitian Government on measures
to be taken in order to ensure that public savings are adequate to meet the local
financing requirement.
15.       Haiti's resource gap is expected to continue to widen in the medium
term, reflecting the import requirements associated with the Government's
investment program. There has been relatively little net foreign borrowing
in the last decade and the debt service ratio is relatively low (6.3 percent
in 1975). Nevertheless, the balance of payments is likely to constitute a
constraint to economic development in view of the limited growth prospects of
Haiti's agricultural exports, and because export diversification through the
development of manufacturing and tourism, is still at an early stage. In view
of the country's poverty and the dependence of its balance of payments on world
demand for a few commodities, Haiti will continue to require external assistance
on concessionary terms for a long time if it is to achieve a significant improve-
ment in the standard of living of its population.
PART II - BANK GRCUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
16.       The Bank Group has had five operations in Haiti. A US$2.6 million
Bank loan (lhl-HA) was made in 1956 for highway rehabilitation and a US$350,000
IDA credit (32-HA) was made in 1962 for highway maintenance. Two IDA credits -
US$10 million (478-HA, Third Highway Project) in 1974 and US$20 million (556-HA,
Fourth Highway Project) in 1975 - were made to Haiti for reconstruction of the
Northern Road. In February 1976, a credit of US$5.5 million was made for a
First Education Project. Execution of the Third and Fourth Highway Projects is
making good progress, with disbursements ahead of appraisal estimates. The
Project Unit for the Education Project is already established; the credit was
declared effective on May 20, 1976. Annex II contains a summary statement of
the Bank loan and IDA credits as of April 30, 1976 and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
17.       The Government organizes twice yearly meetings to coordinate assistance
given to the transport sector by the various aid agencies. USAID is financing
purchase of road maintenance equipment, supplying technical assistance for a
maintenance training program and financing improvement of feeder roads. IDB is



financing construction of the Southern Road and expansion of the port of
Port-au-Prince. France is financing construction of the road linking the
south coast city of Jacmel to the Southern Road and is providing assistance
to improve facilities at provincial airports. UNDP is financing the tech-
nical assistance comporent of the Third Highway Project (with the Bank as
executing agency) including training of local contractors in administration,
engineering and management as well as a study of Haiti's transport sector
which is expected to recommend future investment priorities.
18.       IDB, Canada, France, and IDA are cooperating closely with the
Government in projects aimed at meeting the most urgent needs in the education
sector. IDB has lent for agricultural education and is providing technical
assistance for the preparation of a rural primary education project.  Canada
is supporting a technical education project in Port-au-Prince and France is
providing technical assistance for a new National Pedagogical Institute and
teachers for technical and vocational schools. The recently approved IDA
project is designed to begin to meet some of the highest priority needs for
revision of primary school curricula, expansion of educational opportunities
in rural areas, upgrading of teacher qualifications, and support for adult
literacy programs.
19.       Aid agencies are also supporting other sectors of the Government's
development program. IDB has made loans for agricultural and industrial credit,
and improvement in Port-au-Prince's water supply. It is providing assistance
to the Government for the preparation of integrated rural development projects.
USAID has given assistance for Haiti's malaria eradication program, for commu-
nity development and for modernization of the production and marketing of coffee.
Canada is supporting a rural development project in the southern peninsula and
has undertaken a survey of Haiti's water resources for both irrigation and power
potential. The Federal Republic of Germany is providing financial and technical
assistance for regional development in the Gonaives Plain. UNDP is financing a
number of programs including a survey of Haiti's mineral resources, technical
assistance through UN agencies in education and rural development, and food
relief. Of special significance to Haiti's development in education, health
and agricultural services, are the many and varied programs of the voluntary
agencies.
Table 1:  LOAN COMMITMENTS TO HAITI, 1966-75
(US$ million)
IDA          IDB     Bilateral
Agriculture              -           0.7        6.0
Industrial Credit        -           1.1         -
Transport               30.0        64.7        3.2
Education                5.5         1.3         -
Water and Sewerage       -           7.4         -
ITl1AL                    75. 2       9.2



- 6 -
20.       Prospective IDA lending operations in Haiti take into account our
present knowledge of Haiti's development needs and the ongoing and planned
roles of other official lending agencies. As regards transportation, a high
priority sector in which IDA is already playing a major role, selection of
future transportation projects for financing by IDA would take into account
the recommendations of the transport study mentioned in paragraph 17 which is
expected to be completed in July 1976.
21.       The Government financed construction, in the late 1960's, of the
Peligre hydroelectr;-: plant to supply power to Port-au-Prince. Since the
plant, assuring stuady supply of electricity, became operational in 1971, Haiti
has attracted a number of labor-intensive assembly plants. The growth in
demand for power has been such that serious power shortages are expected by
1977 unless additional diesel electric plants are installed by then. In
February 1975 the Government-owned power company, Electricite d'Haiti (EdH),
engaged consultants to prepare the proposed project which would increase the
generating capacity and distribution system for Port-au-Prince. In order to
investigate long-range solutions to the supply of Haiti's national power needs
by maximizing the use of Haiti's own sources of energy, UNDP is financing a
national power sector pre-investment study for which the Bank is executing agency.
Consultants began field work i4n January 1976. Their assignment includes a
study of the potential use of Haiti's deposits of lignite as fuel for thermal
electric plants. The consultants, in their overall national study, will also
evaluate the recommendations for potential hydropower plants which are being
made by the ongoing survey of Haiti's water resources sponsored by CIDA. This
study is expected to identify high priority projects which, together with the
follow-up power proJect for Port-au-Prince (see paragraph 57), could be suitable
for financing by IDA and other official lending agencies.
22.       An IDB/FAO/IBRD agricultural survey mission identified in mid-1973
several key regions for agricultural development. As a result of that study,
the Government asked IDA to support a rural development project in the Northern
Plain, a densely populated region with considerable agricultural potential.
An FAQ Cooperative Program mission visited the region in January/February 1975
identifying potential project items, namely, agricultural credit, production of
improved seeds, extension services, education and health services, access roads,
drainage and rehabilitation of irrigation works. The project was appraised in
April-May 1976 and is scheduled for presentation to the Executive Directors
early next year.
23.       WHO/PAHO, with UNDP financing, is undertaking the preparation of a
water supply project in provincial towns for which the Government has requested
IDA financing. The project, besides improving and extending existing water
systems, would strengthen the technical and administrative capabilities of the
Services Hydrauliques, which in the future is expected to be a key agency in
expanding water services in rural areas.
24.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's publicly-guaranteed external debt
outstanding and disbursed amounted to about 13 percent at the end of 1975.
The Bank Group's share of external public debt service during 1975 was about
0.5 percent. Its share of outstanding publicly-guaranteed external debt would
rise to about 30 percent by 1980; its share of external public debt service
would be of the order of 7 percent.



- 7 -
25.       There have been no IFC operations in Haiti to date but several
exploratory missions have recently visited the country.
PART III - THE POWER SECTOR
Energy Resources
26.       Haiti's known energy resources are scarce.  There are several known
deposits of lignite out Little is known of their size, facility for mining or their
suitability for generation of electricity or as a domestic and industrial fuel.
In January 1976, consultants began a study of several of the lignite deposits as
part of the larger UNDP-rinanced power sector pre-investment study.   Should lignite
prove to be a feasible source of energy for both generation of electricity and
as a domestic fuel, important benefits could be realized in reducing the country's
dependence on imported fuel as well as reducing consumption of locally produced
charcoal which is leading to depletion of Haiti's few remaining forests. The
consultant's report on the potential uses of lignite is expected by the end of
1976. Identification of Haiti's hydroelectric potential is being carried out
under the CIDA-sponsored study. There are no known geothermal sources. Explo-
rations are underway to identify exploitable deposits of petroleum. The main
source of commercial energy is imported refined petroleum products.
Supply of Power
27.       Port-au-Prince has had access to a regular supply of electricity since
the Peligre hydroelectric project came on line in 1971. This has made the recent
rapid growth of assembly industries possible but, because of current short supply,
a number of local industries have not been able to obtain connections to the
power system. Several provincial towns also have public electricity. Only one-
fourth of the Port-au-Prince households have access to electricity although they
account for 96 percent of the approximately 27,000 households in all of Haiti
that have electricity. National per capita electricity consumption was 28 kW~h
in 197h (32 kWh without allowance for losses in grids), compared to 150 kWh in
Honduras and 190 kWh in Ivory Coast. In the Port-au-Prince area, industrial
consumers account for 44 percent of electricity consumption while residential
consumers account for 33 percent, commercial consumers 10 percent, public light-
ing 6 percent and other users for 7 percent.
28.       Metropolitan Port-au-Prince:  Until the Peligre hydropower plant came
on line, the Port-au-Prinj,e system was supplied only by a diesel power plant
with nominal capacity of L7 MW. The capacity of this old plant (12 machines,
average age 28 years) is 'low 14 MW (3 MW capacity having been taken to provin-
cial towns), but its present condition permits production of a base load of only
5.4 MW and of about 7.8 HW for peaking purposes.
29.        The Peligre dam, 54 km north-east of Port-au-Prince, was first built
in the mid-1950's for flood control and irrigation of the Artibonite Valley. In
the 1960's its use was modified to include generation of power for Port-au-Prince
and the first generator wals put into service in 1971. Two more generators were



- 8 -
commissioned in April 1972 and January 1974. Each generator has a nominal
capacity of 15.7 MW resulting in a total plant capacity of 47.1 MW. The
average generating capacity of the plant is 172.5 GWh in the rainy season
and 66 to 72 GWh in the dry season.
30.       Rest of the Country:  Isolated diesel plants and a small hydro
plant (at Jacmel) for 8 total capacity of 9.5 MW serve 10 provincial towns.
Captive power plants operated by some major industries (mainly cement and
sugar mills) have a ^ombined capacity of 17 MW.
Power Sector Organization
31.       In 1971, the Government-owned power company, Electricite d'Haiti
(EdH), was established to take over the new Peligre hydroelectric plant and
a privately-owned power company serving Port-au-Prince whose concession had
expired. According to its charter, EdH is also responsible for the develop-
ment and distribution of electric power throughout the country. It has
recently assumed nominal control of practically all public service electric
power facilities in the country.
32.       Authority to regulate the power sector is vested in the President of
the Republic and exercised through key government ministers who form, the Board
of Directors of EdH. The Minister of Public Works is chairman of the Board.
There is no separate tariff regulatory commission. The basic law creating EdH
states that tariffs. investment programs and borrowings must be approved by
the President of the Republic. These procedures have been satisfactory in the
past.
33.       When the Haitian cabinet was reorganized in March 1976, EdH's
Director General was replaced. The new Director General is EdH's former
Technical Manager; his replacement as Technical Manager is an engineer with
many years of experience in EdH. The Director General is also assisted by an
Administrative Manager with responsibility for the financial and administrative
departments. Besides maintaining staff, with qualifications acceptable to IDA,
in these key positions, EdH would appoint, not later than July 31, 1976, a
training officer, a system planning officer and two assistants for budgeting
and financial planning (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement). To
strengthen management and technical skills, EdH is undertaking training prog-
rams in Haiti and abroad (see paragraphs 45 and 46). The Govern-ment will amend
EdHIs basic law to effect recent changes in the company's organization, espe-
cially in creating the position of Technical Manager (Section 4.04 of the draft
Credit Agreement).
34.       The Government does not yet have a rural electrification policy.
The Federal Republic of Germany is financing a small 2.5 MW hydro plant to
supply energy for irrigation purposes in the Artibonite-Gonaives area and
for supplying public services to the town of Gonaives. Plans for general
electrification of towns and larger villages will be formulated on the basis
of recommendations to be made by the ongoing power sector pre-investment study.



-9-
External Aid and Planning
35.       Besides the Gsrman assistance mentioned above for a small hydro
plant, there has been no lending from official development agencies for the
power sector. In 1972, UNDP financed technical assistance supplied by the
United Nations Office of Technical Cooperation to undertake a preliminary
survey of Haiti's elect:'icity needs and to make reco.niendations for future
investments.  By 1974, it had become evident that with the rapid increase in
demand for electricity, Port-au-Prince would not be able to wait for construc-
tion of hydro or lignite-fired plants, should they prove feasible, and that an
interim diesel plant would be needed to avoid serious shortages occurring by
1977. The Government hired consultants (SOFRELEC/France) to prepare the pro-
ject under consideration. At the same time, the Government requested UNDP
financing (and Bank assistance as executing agency) to hire consultants
(SOFREIE/France) to make a national power sector pre-investment study which
would investigate the possible uses of lignite and incorporate the findings of
the CIDA-sponsored study of Haiti's hydraulic resources. The consultants will
prepare a program for pcower generation and transmission for the period 1982-95
on the basis of the lignite and hydro studies and of countrywide projections
of future power demand.
Constraints on Sector Development
36.       The major constraints to sector development are:   (a) lack of
coordination among the Government, EdH and the private sector; (b) lack of
sufficient skilled manpower; and (c) inadequate financial resources. Notwith-
standing the fact that EdH has been charged with the responsibility for national
development of the power sector, installation of equipment still continues in
the provinces without the benefit of a master plan or of central control. As
a first step towards the coordinated development of the sector, the Government
has given assurances that future investments in the power sector would be made
according to a plan, acceptable to the Association, taking into account the
recommendations of the ongoing sector study, which is to be completed by
September 30, 1977 (Section 4.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement).  Any invest-
ments to be undertaken between credit signing and completion of the project,
requiring outlays in excess of US$1.5 million in any one year, would be in
agreement with the Association (Section h.02 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Investments made after project completion and exceeding US$2 million would be
in accordance with the ilnvestment plan and would be undertaken after consulta-
tion with IDA (Secticn 4.Ol(b) of the draft Credit Agreement).
37.       The UNDP-financed sector study includes a component for the training
of eight mechanical and electrical engineers, two engineers in system planning
and of two graduate accountants in budgeting and control procedures. The pro-
ject under consideration includes a program for the training of EdH staff in
the use of a new accounting system designed by the consultants and the creation
of an EdH center for the continuous training of electricians and mechanics.



- 10 -
38.       Despite relatively high tariffs in the past, EdH has been unable
to generate adequate financial resources because of high levels of losses
and theft (see para. 53 below). The Government and SdH have agreed to
implement new tariff structures and levels. With these increased revenues,
a reduction of losses in the transmission/distribution facilities and measures
to curb theft of electricity, EdH is expected to generate internally a major
part of the local funds required for its long-term expansion programs (see
paragraphs 54 and 56).
DA Strategy
39.       The long-term IDA strategy is to (a) assist formulation of a
national power development plan; (b) help Haiti develop the power sector by
using, to the maximum extent feasible, the country's own energy resources;
and (c) assist EdH to become an efficient and financially sound national
power company. In the short term and while beginning the long-range program
in institution-building and planning, IDA would help finance additional gene-
rating capacity and transmission facilities to supply the growing power demand
of the metropolitan Port-au-Prince area.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The project was identified by an IDA mission to Haiti in August
1974. It was prepared by consultants (SOFRELEC/France) and appraised by IDA
in November 1975. Post-appraisal missions visited Haiti in January and
February,1976, to discuss project-related issues and to outline implementation
procedures. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington from
May 3 to 6, 1976. The Haitian delegation was headed by Mr. Antonio Andre,
Minister of Commerce and Industry and Mr. Fernand Laurin, Minister of Public
Works and Chairman of the Board of EdH. A report entitled "Appraisal of First
Power Project - Haiti" (No.1052a-HA dated May 24, 1976) is being distributed
separately. The main features of the credit and project are summarized in
Annex III.
Project Cbjectives and Description
41.       As the above assessment of power sector problems indicates, there.
is an urgent need not only to increase the supply of electric power, but also
to strengthen secto: management, planning and financial capabilities. To
support these objectives, the proposed first IDA power project is designed to:
(1) increase the supply of electric power in the Port-au-Prince
area;
(2) help EdH become an efficient, financially independent national
electric company by strengthening management and technical
capabilities and by reducing electricity losses;



- 11 -
(3) make electricity accessible to a larger number of poor
househoLds by applying a new tariff structure;
(4) assist formulation of a national power development plan.
42.       The project would consist of:
(1) A medium-speed diesel engine power plant with a capacity
of a' out 21 MW;
(2) Related transmission and distribution facilities;
(3) Rehabilitation of existing transmission/distribution networks;
(4) Improvem,ents to obtain higher security of the transmission line
interconnecting the Peligre power station with Port-au-Prince;
(5) Construction and equipping of a training center;
(6) Technical assistance for project engineering and supervision
and for training of EdH personnel.
43.       Generation, transmission and distribution:  The 21 MW diesel power
plant would be composed of two units of about 3 MW each, and two units of 7.5 JAW
each. Basic fuel would be fuel oil (Bunker C) with some diesel oil for start-up
and stopping. The plant would be built near the industrial park where most of
the new assembly industries are locating. The first units are expected to be
in service by March 1977 - to complement the reduced output of the Peligre hydro-
hydropower plant during the dry season - with all units operating by the end of
1977. The first sectioans of the transmission line which will eventually ring
Port-au-Prince would be built under the project. Existing transmission lines
would be adapted to carry increased loads. Distribution lines would be extended
where required and new substations built at key locations. The security of the
transmission system from the Peligre hydropower plant would be increased by
better grounding of towers, improvement of control systems and installation of
an insulating transformer to protect the hydro generators from faults in the
local system. Circuit breakers in the existing diesel plant would also be
replaced.
44.       Technical AssiLatance: Consultants (SOFREIEC/France) are assisting
EdH in engineering, preparation of bid documents and evaluation of bid propo-
sals. Their selection and terms of reference are acceptable to the Association.
They will inspect fabrication of equipment and supervise installation of equip-
ment and construction oi the power plant, substations and transmission/distri-
bution lines. The consLltants will also carry out a training program. The
cost of these consultant services (about 160 man/months) is about US$5,450 per
man/month, which is considered reasonable for this work.
45.       Training: Lack of adequately trained staff has led to poor main-
tenance of EdH's equipme!nt and distribution system, and a lack of planning and
budgeting. To train ne% staff and to upgrade the skills of present EdH person-
nel, a comprehensive training program has been agreed upon with EdH and other



- 12 -
aid agencies. Under the UNlDP-financed ongoing power sector pre-investment
study, engineers will be trained abroad and in Haiti (by the consultants) in
diesel and hydropower plant operations and in maintenance of the transmission/
distribution system. Other engineers would be trained in planning and,
together with accountants, would be instructed in preparing budgets. Techni-
cians will be trained in 1976-77 at Port-au-Prince's new vocational training
center sponsored by UNDP/ILO and France.  The proposed credit would finance
training in EdH's nev accounting system and in budgeting and control procedures.
46.       The proposed credit would also finance construction and equipping of
a small permanent training center for EdH personnel. Cost of the center, with
equipment, is estimated at US$150,000. The training center would be directed
by a qualified Haitian responsible to the Technical Manager. Besides upgrading
present EdH personnel, the center would give practical training to new EdH
recruits who are expected to come mainly from among the graduates of a tech-
nical secondary school supported by CIDA.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total cost of the project, net of duties and taxes, is estimated
at about US$18 million. (Details of project cost are given in Annex III). Of
this anount, the Government would provide US$2 million as an equity contribution
to EdH. The proposed credit of US$16 million (89 percent of total project cost)
would finance the import component of the project of about US$15 million and
US$1 million of local costs. The proposed cost sharing by IDA is recom-
mended in the light of EdH's tight financial situation (see paragraph 53) and
of the severe constraints on the Government's ability to increase its savings
(see paragraph 12). The credit, which would be on standard IDA terms, would
be onlent by the Government to EdH at the interest rate of 8.85 percent with
a repayment period of 25 years, including a grace period of two years (Section
3.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement). Interest due the Government by EdH would
be capitalized during the construction period.
Project Execution
4b.        EdH would be responsible for the execution of the project which would
be carried out in accordance with procedures outlined in the draft Project Agree-
ment between the Association and EdH. A project implementation schedule was
agreed upon during negotiations.
49.        Procurement: The diesel power plant would be contracted on a furnish-
and-install (turn-key) basis. Construction of high-tension (69 and 115 kV)
transmission lines and substations would be carried out by qualified contractors.
All major contracts for equipment and works would be awarded following interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Procurement.
Equipment, valued at about US$200,000, needed to complement existing equipment,
would be procured from original suppliers; the order for training equipment
(costing about US$100,000) is too specialized to warrant general international
competitive bidding procedures and would be purchased on the basis of price
quotations from at least three suppliers.



- 13 -
50.       Disbursements: Withdrawals from the credit account would be made
for: (a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 90 percent of total expendi-
tures (with the exception of purchase of land) for the power station; (b) 100
percent of foreign expenditures or 85 percent of total expenditures for
transmission/distribution and other works; and (c) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for other equipment and materials, and for consultant services.
The credit would be disbursed over a period of about two years. A schedule
of estimated disbursements is given in Annex III.
51.       Retroactive Financing:  Because of the urgency of having additional
generating capacity installed as soon as possible, EdH engaged consultants
acceptable to IDA, in Flebruary 1975, for project preparation, engineering and
procurement. In order to permit construction to begin in time to avoid major
power rationing during the 1977 dry season, international competitive bidding
for the generating plant was initiated in consultation with IDA in December
1975. Bids were received on February 13, 1976 and on May 7, 1976, with the
concurrence of IDA, EdH issued a letter of intent, valid for 30 days, to the
lowest evaluated bidder, a consortium headed by Brown Boveri (Germany). This
schedule would permit operation of the first generators by March 1977, the
middle of the dry season. Retroactive financing not exceeding US$1.12 million
is recommended for expenditures undertaken from February 1, 1975 against payment
for consultant services (US$500,000) and downpayments for generating equipment
(us$620,000).
Environment
52.       The location of the proposed diesel power plant in the industrial
section of Port-au-Prirnce removes it from existing or planned residential
developments. Specifications, acceptable to IDA, on maximum sulfur dioxide
emission, noise level and thermal pollution are to be included in the contract
documents and are expected to keep to a minimum any detrimental effects to
the environment. EdH, with the help of consultants, would route new trans-
mission lines so as to minimize unsightly impact or destruction of vegetation.
Financial Aspects
53.       EdH's financial performance has been unsatisfactory. This is due
mainly to three causes.  Firstly, the level of losses of electricity (about
32 percent of net generation) is high, both in absolute terms for Haiti's
compact system and ..n comparison to other countries at a similar stage of
development. The project will reduce losses by improving transmission and
distribution facilities. The Government has also passed special legislation
declaring theft of electricity - due to illegal connections and meter
tampering - a criminal offense and EdH expects to reduce these losses by
systematic inspections of connections. Progress in reduction of losses would
be monitored against targets established in consultation with the Association
(Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement). A second cause of poor finan-
cial condition was the non-payment of electricity bills by the Government and
autonomous agencies.  The Government has given assurances that it will under-
take all measures necessary to ensure that electricity bills owed EdH are



- 14 -
settled and paid in time under arrangements satisfactory to the Association
(Section 4.05 of the draft Credit Agreement). Thirdly, debt service on
supplier's credits incurred for the construction of the Peligre dam, though
shared by the Governnent, was a heavy burden for the new company. Most of
EdH1's debts for Peligre will be fully repaid by the end of 1978. For the
above reasons, EdH has had to borrow every year from the National Bank
(current overdraft is US$3.4 million). Action to reduce electricity losses and
to settle overdue receivables as well as adoption of a slightly higher tariff
(see below) would improve the financial position of EdH. EdH would not incur
long-term debts(12 ,nonths or more) without prior approval of IDA, unless it is
able to meet a 1.5 debt service test (Section 4.05(a) of the draft Project
Agreement). It would not incur short-term debts (less than 12 months) exceed-
ing one-sixth of its annual cash operating expenses without prior approval of
IDA (Section 4.05(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
54.       Tariffs:  The present electricity tariffs were put into effect some
thirty years ago by the private power company which served Port-au-Prince
until 1971. EdH retained these tariffs with an inequitable structure conducive
to wasteful consumption. On the basis of studies undertaken by the consultants
who prepared the project and who are also carrying out the UNDP-financed power
sector study (paragraph 35), EdH will restructure the tariff schedule to make
electricity more accessible to the small consumer. To permit EdH to attain
rates of return on its revalued rate base increasing from 5 percent in 1976
to 8 percent by 1961 and thereafter, moderate tariff increases would be needed.
New tariffs to come into effect on October 1, 1976 would result in about a
10 percent increase on the average over existing tariff levels. Further
tariff adjustments will be made as necessary to achieve the agreed rates of
return (Section 4.03 of the draft Credit Agreement and Section 4.03 of the
draft Project Agreement). EdH has agreed to revalue its assets annually,
using a methodology acceptable to IDA (Section 4.04 of the draft Project
Agreement).
55.       New accounting procedures are being introduced by EdH, under the
supervision of consultants. These procedures are expected to speed up bill-
ings and collections, simplify accounting controls and make information required
for planning and budgeting more accessible. EdH accounts would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA (Section 4.02 of the draft
Project Agreement).
56.       Financing Plan:  Over the 1976-78 construction period of the proposed
project, EdH's total capital requirements will be about US$39.6 million. About
US$18 million of this amount would be for the proposed project and US$6.7 mil-
lion would be the initial disbursement in 1978 for additional diesel units and
transmission and distribution works. The remainder of investments for this
period would be for system expansions in the provinces (US$10 million) and for
working capital increases and interest during construction (US$4.9 million).
Twenty-three percent of these investment funds (about US$9.4 million) are
expected to be generated by EdH itself, including customer contributions
(after payment of debt service), 45 percent from proceeds of the proposed IDA



- 15 -
credit and capitalized interest (Us$17.8 million), 8 percent from the
Federal Republic of Germany (US$3.1 million), 17 percent from as yet un-
determined foreign sources (US$6.5 million) and 7 percent (US$2.8 million)
from government contributions. The (overnment contributions would be par-
tially offset by EdH's repayoments of overdrafts to the National Bank.
Justification of the Project
57.       Demand and Generation Forecast: Projections for power demand and
generation for Port au.-Prince have been made by the consultants through 1990.
These projections take into consideration an expected reduction in electricity
losses from the present 32 percent of total net generation to 16 percent by
1982 through enforcement of the new anti-theft legislation and improvement of
the distribution systemi. The forecast assumes an average annual increase of
generation of 12.5 percent from 1975 through 1982 and 6.8 percent from 1983
through 1990 with corresponding annual growth rates of sales to be 15.3 per-
cent and 6.8 percent. The proposed new tariff structures may cause mnajor
changes in demand patterns by lowering tariffs for small residential consumers
and by raising them for large consumers and, given the small base from which
the industrial sector has expanded since 1968, it is particularly difficult to
anticipate the level of industrial growth. Though present forecasts indicate
a need for additional diesel plant and transmission/distribution facilities to
be built in 1978, demand patterns will be closely monitored in order to ascer-
tain more precisely the need for future power investments (Section 3.05 of the
draft Project Agreement). For the short term it is clear that there is an
immediate need for additional generating capacity, as loads totalling 14 MW
are already awaiting connection and, even without connecting these loads, there
would be power shortages in the 1977 dry season. The new generating plant would
become fully operational toward the end of 1977.
58.       Least Cost Solution:  In a study by the consultants comparing
(1) medium-speed diesel engine plants, (2) gas turbine engine plants, and
(3) a combination of gas turbine and steam plants, the medium-speed diesel
engines were found to be the least cost solution for discount rates of up to
20 percent. The transmission works selected for the proposed project were
the least cost solution for discount rates of up to 35 percent.
59.       Return on Investment: The economic rate of return of the project
would be about 16 perceit. Sensitivity analysis shows that the rate of return
would be 14 percent if Lnvestment and operating costs were assumed to rise by
10 percent. The benefits of the project were taken as revenues accruing from
sales of additional electricity at recommended tariff levels which would re-
flect the marginal cost of electricity supply. This understates the total
economic benefits of the project because indirect benefits resulting from the
project are not quantified in the benefit stream. To the extent that they are
not included in tariffs, these indirect benefits include the social benefits
from greater access to electricity for the u-rban poor and greater employment
possibilities resulting from increased industrial and agricultural production
made possible by the project.



- 16 -
Project Risks
60.       EdH could encounter difficulties in the execution of the project
since it lacks construction experience and has few qualified engineers on its
staff. To minimize this risk and to train Haitian staff for execution of
future projects, the consultants who prepared the project would also super-
vise its execution together with EdH personnel.
PART V - LBEAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Haiti and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and Electricite d'Haiti, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft
resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
62.       The draft Credit Agreement and the draft Project Agreement conform
to the normal pattern for credits for power projects. Features of special
interest of the draft Development Credit and Project Agreements are referred
to in paragraphs 33, 36, 47, 53, 54, 55 and 57.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 3, 1976



ASNZX I
Page 1 of 4 pagea
TABLE 36
HAITT                 SOCIAL IKDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU   K2)                ........ !.............                 --
------------w--                                 HAITI                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       27.8                                      HOST RECENT
AGRIC     .                            1960      1970   ESTIMATE          CAMEROON       HONoUaAs      IVORY COAST **
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                      90.0      110.0      130.0              210.0       270.0      3Z0.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
___________________.___________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)             3.6        4.2        4.5                5.8         2.5        5.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       129.0      151.0      162.0               12.0        22.0       16.0
PER SO. KN. AGRICULTURAL LANO          ..          ..         ..                 ..
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUOE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         39 9       37.6       CR                 42.1        51.5       46.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND         21.8       17 8                          23.9        19.1       23.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (7THLU)       200.0 /a       ,.       150.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YrS)        41.9       46.6       47.7               39.7        47.3       39.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..         3.0        3.0                2.7         3.4        3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                  1.5        1.6         1.8               2.0         2.7        s.4La,
URBAN                                  3.6        3.9         3.5               6.0         7.9        7.5 /a
URBAN POPULATION CZ OF TOTAL)           15.0       18.7        19.0              20.0        32.0       28.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 tO 14 YEARS                        42.0       41.5       42. 5L             43.0        46.7       42.4
1s ro 64 YEARS                       54.9        54.0       53. 2              54.0        50.9       54.9
65 YEARS ANO OVER                      3.1        A.5        4.3                3.0         2.4        2.7
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9         0.9               0.9         0.0        0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.?7 A     0.7 /a       ..               1.2         l.5/a      a.s
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUHULATIVE. THOU)            ..         ..         ..                 ..        20.7
USERS (C OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         ..         ..                 ..
EMPLOYrENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         2300.0      2800.0         ..             2800.0       800.0     2600.0
LAB3R FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (1)          83.0       80.0                          82.0        65.0       78.0
UsEMPLOYED (T OF LABOR FORCE)            ..          ..         ..                 ..         8.0        9.0
INCOME CISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D 3Y-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                 ..        32.9 A     28.6 /
HIGHEST 26B OF HOUSEHOLOS              ..          .          ..                 ..       65.3        58.b  5 
L3WEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         ..         ..                 ..         1.6        3.9    e
LOWEST  40S OF HOUSEHOLOS               ..         ..         ..                 ..         6.4A7     10.6   j
ODSTRIBUTION OF LAND OANERSHIP
t OWNED BY TOP IO OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                 ..        57.3
S OWNEO BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..          ..         ..                 ..         0.5
HEALTH ANO NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            10600.0     13210.0    12310.0            25960.0     37O0.OZC   L2140.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        9220.0/c    7460.0 b                      2470.0          ..     2480. 0  _d
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL RED          1790.0      1370.0         ..              480.0      570.0       680.0 /d
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)          B1.0       76.0       77.0               96.0        96.0      108.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               40.0       39.0       39.0               59.0        58.0       60.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..        18.0                          23.0/      2Z.0        18.0 /
CEATH RATE A/YHOU) AGES 1-4             27.0       33.0         ..                 ..        10.0
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        38.0       40.0   d    41.0A            108.0       86.0 /d    76.0
SECONOARY SCHOOL                       3.0 L      4.0             *             9.o b      io.o 7 T    10 L 
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDEO
(FIRST AND SBCOND LEVEL)              13.0       13.0       03.0               14.0 /k     12.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(1 OF SECONDARY)                     21.0        19.0         ..               22.0        08.0        7.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)                 I0.0       20.0          ..                ..        45.0       2 0.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROO (AVERAGE)               ..          ..         ..                 ..
OCCUPIEO DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (C)                        ..          ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(l OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..          .          ..
RURAL OWELLTNGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (2)                     ..          ..         ..                 ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           5.0       17.0        17.0              36.0        57.0       17.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0        3.0         3.0               6.0         s.0       11.0
ELECTRICITY (KAN/YR PER CAP)            25.0       28.o        32.0 $           201.0       127. 0     120 0
NECSPRINT (1G/YR PER CAP)                0.1        0.          0.                 ..         1.0        0. 2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unins. otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer no any year hetwern 1959 and 1961, for 1970 berwee         1963 and 1970, end for Moat Iloneo    E-icvat   betwee   1971
and 1973.
* The Ivory Coast has bacoa- leo,tedasn ojn           lva  ootry for Haieti sis    both o ...etries have a similar noltoran baokgr..od aed the Ivory toastL
h. as sonooded le  chtvle    a  igh rat   of enosevin   rowth.
HAITI           1960     Ia  1962,    lb  Ratio of ppaiatnne under 15 and 65 and over to total labor foon           In T1llodieg eidwi-e;        ld  7-12 and
13-19 Years of .ag ro pertlveiy.
19760    /   Ratio of Ppnplatiaa under 15 and 65 and over to total labor form.,        /b   Tonloding nidwva    and -nnietan.  eees       I  1966.
Id 7-12 snd 13-18 years of age respenLi_voy.
MOST RECENT ESTNIATE'      Ia  1974,    /b  7-12 yearn nf age.
CAMIEROON       1970     I   1964-66,    lb  12-18 years of age,     In  13 Years for East Caneoo.-
HONDURAS        1970     I   Ratio of .populatimne nder 15 and 65 and ove     to total labor forte,     lb  1967-68.   In   Registerd, sot all prantioieg is rho
onuanry,    /d  7-12 and 13-19 yearn of age respentiv-ly.
WVORE COAST     1970     I   1965-1970,     b  Ratio of ppolation aeder 15 and 69 and oven to total laborfot             In .o-      rolipient,     Id  foooraa,et
only,    /a  1964_66,    If  12-18 yearn of age,     /R  Dne so Iaeigratioe, the growth rate in higber thas the rate of eatrora
R6, may 20, 1976
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATOSI1
Land Arl, (thou _ns)                                                                 Populatinene    eurnigprn          Population divided by oscbhr af prooti-
Total1   Tona  an..n    area...-ri       land area aned inand waes                          ol I     d  _..Ed.teaed female  urses,               eified"
Agi.-Most reoeant  siaeof agriouIturalI areaossed tampnrn rily or                 .orses , and asiliaty personne     with trainig orepeisa
pormaeetly for oraps, panture-, macbet b kitobee gardese or tIn       i            Population per hnupital bed -Populatio      diided by eniber of hospital
fallow.                                                         he~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bda avalable in puhIto aed private gene.ral aed uproinli-d houpito1
and rehahilittatin   nete trs; ..erIodes  -rieg biase  asd establiubhmets
foP per napt     US0$) - GNP per o"pita astioates at ..arbat prices, calou-            for   ustadial a nd prevetive rare.
lated bysae     saersin method as World Rash Atlas (1972-74 basis).                Pee nait   snoy of ra~lonien (% of renuirmea,tul      - Couputod brow
enrgyt equ.ivl ent of net food pp'lie ava_ilable isncon,try per napita
Ponaio  n  italsei  ut                                                         per day, aviacaspplies n-pris- domasit pro            -nlo, irports Irss
,Popultio   (nsd-yr. million) -Au of July firnt       if nor avilabla,                 onports, and ohanges in sutk, nor suppli      en ounldo oniol feed, seodu
_avrogo of two end-year estinates.                                                   qaa..itie- us-d in food pro...oufIg and Ios-es In dintribotion, raqore-
vents were .uti-satd by PA0 base d on pbyutlogioal seeds for noesI
Pseulation density -per uqoare In- Mid-year pops.iacio       per uquore ktlo-          notivuty and health considering enviroonen ta1 teoperature, body weights,
moter (100 hoas) af notal areas,                                                     age aadsen distrlhbtinn     of population, and al11uieg 107. for waste
Populaion denity -per square o of ageic. 1aed - Computed .10          bav- for         at househod 1-vo.
agiutr liand only.                                                          Par -apit  su-pply of protedin (ugao per day) - Protein vonieni of per
oapitatnet supply of fod     e  day, net supply of fond is defined as
vital statistics                                                                        above, requiremets   for all c .u.tries established by US0A Enonuit
Crude birth rateper thousae      - iAua.. IveI births, Per thousa,   of mid-           R..searoh Servioes provide far a minimum allmce af 60 grass of
year pplton       oa-er      rnithnatft averges adiag in 190( aaul IW0,               toial protein per day, and 20 grams of asimal and pulse protein, of
andfir-yer aeraa edig is 1975 for meat e'aeat estimate.                         which 10 grams should be a.nial protein, ihese       tanadsae        loe
Crado death rte pert        ..ead - AunoaI deaths per thousand of mid-year              rhaa thoue of 75 grans of total proteim aad 23 gram      of animal protein
population; ten-year aritiseetie aarge      eding in 1960 and 1970, and              an an average for the world, propou-d by FAO in the Third World Fand
five-year avrage endliag in 1975 for most recent eatimats.                           SurvY.
in fantmortality rate (/thofl - Anesa.l deathu of infants snder one Year             Propt        rfbspl         rmaia        n    us      Protein sapply of food
of ag   perc thoauand live births,                                                   derived fran anol      and paRses In grams pe    day.
tIf._; eetaocy at birth fyrs) - Averago sumbor of yearu of litf       remain-        Deatb ra2te i/thou) noes 1-h - AnnualI deaths per thonsand in age group
lag at birth, osual1y five-yea     veae     ending In 1960, 1970 and                 1-4 years, is ohildren in this age graop, suggestedass indiontar oi
1975 for develping n-teries,                                                         mInstrition.
Crone reprodution rote - Averge number of livedaughters a          osa    ill
bearishr normal.rprodotive per iod if she onporienoon preses r age-                Edaoa.tion
pefi frti'tity rates, usually fiv-year av.rag-s ending is 1960,              Adlsated e-ro-ient ra    lah epimar nhool - EnraIlmet of all agesa
1970 ad 1975 for devlping cnoutrie.prntg                                                         afriry       nhi-e       poplation; i-claden ohildren aged
Popn1ation growth earn 1) - tatal - Compood anua         growth rates of mid-          6-11 years but adjuted far differest lengths of pr-ryoduiotio,
year popaILaio   for 1950-60, 19601-70, and 1970 to most recen.t year.               for eaumtries with movra         dunatson, enrollment may ea.ed 1002
Poaaingoth ra te (2-uban - Computed like growth rate of totl.                    ince some papils are below or above the offiolal sohoolIge
population, different defisitions of srba     areas mop affent nonpara-            Adlunted meroliment ratia - seoandars sohool - Computed as above;
biliryofdta amog omaris.seodary edar..tion requires at least foar years of approved primary
Erhan. oneplation C% of total) - Ratia of orbam    in total population;                 instruction; provides gemeral, v-ntional ar teah-r training
different definitions ni arba    areas may affeor o-parbility of data                instrsotion   for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; o-r-opond-nre
amn  ononfrie..nnua.r                                                                           generally ..moloded.
Age structure (portent) -Children (0-14 Years) * worhig-age (15-64 years),          YVear of arhoalieg provided (first and aeond levels) - Tetal Years of
and retired (65 years and ovr) as peroontagas of mid-year popolation.                scheal ig, at se..ondary level, vonationaI ins trantion may he par-
Ag  eednyratia - Ratio of papelatin under 15 aod 65 and over no                 tially or npletely elded
A     dpn..thase of ages 15 throngh 64.                                             Vonationa1 enrollment (of seooadary) - Vocational institutiomo,
ic...-I. depend-ny ratio - gRbti     of population oder 15 and 65 and over             imolade teohnina1, imduutrial or other program      which operate
to the labor forne in age group of 1'-64 years.                                      independently or as deparononta of ueoondary institutions,
Pemily planing - anoeeors (rumlaIoc  the') - C-Insltive niashr of          Adult literacy rate()- Literate adults (able to read and write) as
acceyptors of bit-cotrl         evre   under a..pioes of national family              peroen tRag  of total adult .paplation   aed iS yers amd over.
plamning progron: .i.e iaoeption.
Pamily planning- usrs       of marred womn) - Percetages of married                  HassuIng
women af ohild-bearsng age (15-44 years) who use birth-rontro1 devires              Persona perroom (ave-rae) -Average somber of per...s Per room        in
to all maried wmen is some age gronp.                                                 _nePied covetional dwellings in urban areas; dwelligs emelude
E.pl.y-.t                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~On-permanent ut-uturen nd smncpied)parts.
Pasplaymant                                                   Ottupie~~~~~~~d_dwllng  wihout pined wter (2) - Orcapied ...avention1
Total labor farce (thousan d) - Emonuically active persons, icnlding                    dweligs in sRrbts   and rural areas without inside or outside piped
armed fames and unemployed bot e..Itdladig housewives     students, Ott,             water facilities as peroentage of all oncpied dwellings.
dafisitioma io various countries are not oumparable.                               Access to  lcrct        (% of all dwellings) - Conventiona     dwellings
Labor force in agriculture()- Agricaltural labrfor mie (is farming,                    with el.eotrigityin1lvng quarters as percent of total dwellings in
forestry,(.hoIntg and fishing) as percentage of total la bor force.                  urbam and rara1 area..iv
Unemplaynd (2 of labor Porno) - Unemployed are usualy defined a                      Rara1 dwellings connecte.d ta ele-trielty()- Computed as         babv  for
porsons who are able and williug to tabe a Job, out of a Jab onarura                        dwellings only.
given day, remained our of a Job, and see king work for a spenified
minimn- period not emneeding one week; may not be comparable between               conamPtion
countrien dua to ldifferent definitions of onepleynd and -onroef0                  Radim eevr (-ethu            Pa) - All types of r-nivers for radio broad-
data, e.g., - emlymet office statistics, sample survys, compulsory                  css to general puhlio Per thousa,nd of papolation, encldes
ouaplo5sant imauranee.                                                               onlicesned receivers in tonatries and in years when registration, of
radio nets was in effect, darn for recent years may eat be comparable
leI-se distribution     Percentage of private income (both is cah and                  siere most   ountries abolished licensig.
hind) received by riobest 52, rieh-tr 202, panrese 202, and poorest                Passenger c.ar(prb        pp)- Pseger oars comprise sorer oars
402 o   huoehoRds-                                                                   seating less than eight persons; encludes anbulan-es       hearses and
military vehcles.
Diotributios of land owse-hip - Peroentages of land ownd by wealthiest               Ele-trnloty (hwhyr per cap) - Annual consumption, of induatria1, con-
102 and poorest 102. of land ownrs                                                   nercie1, public and private electnioty in hilewatt hours per oopita;
gene rally based onprdtion data, without alwnefar Il.s.es in
Health and Nutrition                                             g~~~~~~~~rids but a1llawing for iports and emparta of electricity.
Popu:latio  per physician - Population divided.by nunber of pranticing               Newsprint (hg/yr per cap) - Per eapita annual      --suPtion in kilograms
phyaioian   qualified from  a mdioalchoo      at aniv-rsiry level,                   . etimated from domestic Production Plus net imPmrts of newprist.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS V1
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975 b'                                       ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.        %                        1960 -67           1967 -72           1972-1975 ff
GNP at Market Prices           921.1         100.0                         0.1                3.0                2.4
Gross Domestic Investment       98.0         10.6                         -3.0               18.5               12.5
Gross National Saving           46.6           5.1                       -26.0               46.o              -43.0
Current Account Balance        -16.4           1.8
Exports of Goods, NFS          106.0          11.5                        -4.7                9.3               -8.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          155.7         16.9                          2.9                6.8                8.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PEODUCTIVITY IN 1975 g
Value Added                    Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
Cln. % ~~~~~~~Mln.                  % U f
Agriculture                    389.3          42.2
Industry                       169.7          18.4
Services                       365.';         39.4
Unallocated                       .             .
GDP Total/Average           Q                                  .22     100.0    ..                        100.0
GOVERNMEN FINANCE
Glener al Government VCentral Oovernment
Mlni.)O              GOP                     (     Mln.)         %o GDP 
1N975,        1975       19 74175               1977         197    197   -4       19
Current Receipts                     555y.          12.0         11.7                  475.4        10. 3        9.8
Current Expenditure                  526.2          11.4         11.2 4t.6.2                         9.7         9.3
Current Surplus                       22r---O-.-6             --Ts ce7ae2 o       d    u6
Capital Expenditures      %          220.1           4.8          4.1                  220.1        14.8         4
External Assistance (net)y           158.0           3.4          2.4                  158.0 j       3.4 I'      2.14 
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   1969         1970          1971        19372        1973         1974         1975
(Ellion G. outstanding end periodf-
Money and Quaai Money                      178.6       193.4         246.4        311.3       391.5        467.7        478.5
Bank credit to Public Sector              193.1        189.2         202.5       215.3        214.7        331.6        415.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector               59.4        65.3          78.5         92.1       170.6        310.6        451.3
(Percentages or Index Numsbers)
MoneY and Quasi Money as % of GDP            8.2          8.4          9.1         10.5         12.5        12.8         10.4
General Price Index (1963     100)         119.0       123.2         128.9        135.6       162.7        186.9        219.6
Annual percentage changes in
General Price index                          4.9         3.5           4.6          5.2         20.0 nt.9                17.5
Bank credit to Public Sector                13.6        -2.1           7.0          5.4        13.7         35.5         25.3
Bank credit to Private Sector                5.7         9.9          20.2         19.6        85.2         82.0         45.3
NOTEt All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing dturing the period
covered.
/Dat-a refer to fiscal years ending September 30
JIncludes current expenditures associated with development projects
~/Net loans and grants
IVGeneral Government
t Preliminary
y Estimate
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWS 2
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974     1975                                               US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)                 Coffee                              21.0     31.0
Exports of Goods, NFS         71.7     93.0     106.0             Sugar                                4.5      6.6
Imports of Goods, NFS         95.7    134-9     155.7             Essential Oils                      5.4       8.o
Resource Gap (deficit = -)   -24.0     -41.9                      Beef                                1         2 
Interest Payments (net)       -o.6      -o.6     -0.5             Bauxite                              7.9     11.8
Handicrafts                         17.5     25.9
Other Factor Payments (net)    -3.8     -5.3     -6.3
Net Transfers                 19.1      26.9     40.1               All other commodities              7.0     10.2
Balance on Current Account     -9,3    -20.9    -16X4                    Total                        67.7    100.0
Direct Foreign Investment       7.0      7.9      2.6             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               3.2       8.4     24.8                                                       US $ Mln
Amortization                -6.0       .8     -6.2
Subtotal                   -28        3.        -     6          Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              81.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed              81.0
Other items n.e.i              3.      -10.1    -28.3
Increase in Reserves (+)      -1.5     -19.5    -23.5             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975 2
Gross Reservesr                20.7     14.7     12.8
Net Reserves   /               18.9     -o.6    -24.1               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed            6.3
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                       4.3     12.4     11.2
Exports                        -        -    
IBRD/IDA LENDING, March 31. 1976 (Million US $)
IBRDl       IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                                  _
Outstanding & Disbursed                -         12.8
Undisbursed                            -         17.6
G 1.00    US $ 0.20                                         Outstanding incl. Undisbursed         -         30.4
/ Data refer to fiscal years ending September 30
/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services
/ September 30                                  , , not available
not applicable
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
May 13, 1976



A.NEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK BROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.    STATEMENT OF BANK LCANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1976)
Loan or                                               US$ million
Credit                                       Amount     (less cancellations)
Number     Year     Borrower     Purpose      Bank      IDA     Undisbursed
One loan (1956) and one credit (1962),
both fully disbursed.                          2.6      0.35         -
h78-HA     1974    Rep.of Haiti  Highway               10.00        2.9
556-HA     1975    Rep.of Haiti  Highway               20.00       13.4
618-HA     1976    Rep.of Haiti  Education              5.50        5.5
Total                                 2.6     35.85
of which has been repaid            2.6       .01
Total now outstanding                 Nil     35.84
Amount sold                           0.4
of which has been repaid            o.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA         -      35.84  /
Total undisbursed                                         21.8
B.    STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1976)
No IFC investments have been made in Haiti.
C.    PROJECTS IN EXECUTION _
CREDIT 478:          THIRLD HIGHWAY PROJECT; US$10 MILLION CREDIT OF JUNE 6. 1974;
EFFECTIVE DATE: SEPTEMBER 9. 1 97l- CLOSING DATE:  DECEMBER 31,197
Construction of the Third Highway Project, as amended by the Executive
Directors on October 29, 1974, is about three-fourths completed. The Estere bridge
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the progress
of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced eveluation of strengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
reconstruction, begun prior to credit signing, was completed in December 1974.
Earth works envisaged under the project are substantially completed and paving
has begun. Disbursements are ahead of estimates at the time of appraisal.
Consultants have begun training of local civil works contractors.
CREDIT 556:     FDURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT: US$20 MILLION CREDIT OF JUNE 11, 1975;
EFFECTIVE DATE: OCTOBER 8, 1975; CLDSING DATE: DECEMBER 31, 1978
Contracts for 90 percent of the works under the Fourth Highway project have
been let and execution, which is on schedule, is about one-third completed.
CREDIT 618:     FIRST EDUCATION PROJECT: US$5.5 MILLION CREDIT OF FEBRUARY 27,
1976; EFFECTIVE DATE: MAY 20, 1976; CLOSING DATE: JUNE 30, 1980
Project Unit established; one-third of school sites selected.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
HAITI: FIRST POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of Haiti
Amount:              US$16.0 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms:     The Government would relend the proceeds of the IDA credit
to EdH for a period of 25 years, including 2 years
of grace, at the interest rate of 8.85 percent.
Project Description: Construction and equipping of a medium-speed diesel engine
power station with a capacity of about 21 MW, a training
center, and transmission and distribution works of:
(i) 21 km single-circuit 69 kV transmission line; (ii) 5.4 km
of double circuit 115 kV transmission line; (iii) extension
of an existing 115 kV substation and construction of new
115/69/12.47 kV and 69/4.16 kV substations; (iv) extension
and rehabilitation of existing transmission and distribution
netwrorks; and (v) improvements to the security of the exist-
ing transmission system between the Peligre hydropower
station and Port-au-Prince. Technical assistance for engi-
neering and supervision and for training of EdH personnel.
Estimated Cost:      The estimated total cost of the project is US$18.0 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of about
US$1.5.0 million
US$ (thousands)             Percent of
Local       Foreign      Total       Total
Power Station                      1,830       8,382        10,212       57
Transmission/distribution            770      3,897          4,667       26
and other works
Engineering and supervision          -           930           930        5
Training                             -           43             43        -
Base Cost Estimate                 2,600      13,252        15,852       88
Contingencies
(i) Physical 1/                    223      1,157          1,380        8
(ii) Price 2/                      118        682            800       4
2,9941     15,O9l        18032      100
8% on power station; 10% on the rest of project components.
2/ None on power station (firm price contract); 9% in 1976, 8% in 1977-78 on
the rest of project components.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Financing Plan:          IDA         -   US$16.0 million equivalent
Government  -   US$2.0 million equivalent
Estimated                     IDA Fiscal Year (US$ Millions)
Disbursements:         1976-77        1977-78             1978-79
Annual                10.3           4.6                  1,1
Cumulative            10.3          14.9                 16.0
Procurement:            Contracts for most of the equipment and for con-
struction of the diesel power plant, substations
and transmission lines would be awarded following
international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank/IDA Guidelines for Procurement. Equipment,
valued at about US$200,000, needed to complement
existing equipment, would be procured from original
suppliers; training equipment, costing about US$100,000
would be purchased on the basis of price quotations
from at least three suppliers.
Retroactive
Financing:            Retroactive financing not exceeding US$1.12 million
is recommended for expenditures made from February 1,
1975 against payment for consultant services and
downpayment for generating equipment.
Technical
Assistance:           Consultants (SOFRELEC/France) have been hired for
engineering and supervision and for training of EdH
personnel. The cost of these consultant services
(about 160 man/months) is about US$5,450 per man/month.
Rate of Return:         16 percent.
Appraisal Report:       Report No. 1052a-HA dated May 24, 1976.



_IBRD- 12154
USAB odj                        DUVA-05ER VILLE                                                                                                  MAY 1976
oJ OCcE.v  1                         18kAN
o . z . / I & & 12X4 M~~~~~~VA                6CROIX DES MISSIONS
A       I rg                  L     _J 
>..                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HAITI
PURERUIC                                                                                       APPRAISAL OF POWER PROJECT
4Ws HAITIt                                                                                    PEL, e  LS -  &7  _IG IE  ELECTRICITE D'HAITI (EdH)
JAMAICA  S~. ._0/                                                              +     CROIX DES BOUQUETS             PORT-AU-PRINCE ELECTRIC SYSTEM
Cd l7i   X  ',  5A1                                                                                                          Project  Future  Existing
-2O,  74    OF     72?                                                                                  to                                       --
-20..----< 24ct/ r/ - Au- PrI n c e    NE   OWER STATION                    j      - -            Power Station
P       <  HAITI J                                    UNITS LARG' E UNITS
f t  n~        PEL 16RE                                                                                   I                    F--   F    )
is. I  ..1Substation 3                                                                                                                        l
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L30
*Transmission Lines -
~~~~~JPOJECT STCATION                         P                                                    OI N  - J 69h- NIL
ILO LEOGANE  kv 47 v         Porrt-Au-Prince  M etropolitan  Area
I~~~~~~~ 
*L____\\_                                                                 I              I     I      .                    -MAS
-opiy  oso,n,n   o -r-InpTo  by TAo                                                             E  L               T   PETIONVILLE, KENSKOFF
WorstB- da,doffi-booo                                                  PLACE GEFFRARD                             'TO HAUT DELMAS
> \\62 hv 2 x4~~~~~~~~~~~MVAIe i 2xMA^                /.
-IW30                                                 2x2 VA                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~18030'
\    0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _          a~~~~~~~,EITN       DISL               PTt  MORllOMTRS1
_\                        'POWER STATION                                           690 kv':  69PhvETIONVILLE\ 63kv   FEUILLES  |   TIN L
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                         -      .     69kIv
TO LEOGANE           1 7k
2x4MVA 4.5 m2.6  km    L_     j                                        APPROXIMATE  SCALE
~~~~~~~ * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12 47 kv Transmission Line to be Tronstormed To 69 kv
72045'                                       4245'
I  I  '       '                                 :                                 _



