I
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 645 HA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Power Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated July 2, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by EdH with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to EdH the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit available
upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a proj-
ect agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
EdH;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "EdH" means Electricitg d'Haiti, an autonomous agency of
the Borrower established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's
Basic Law;
(b) "Basic Law" means the Loi-Cadre dated July 29, 1971,
and published in the Moniteur of August 9, 1971, as said Loi-Cadre
may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EdH of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time; and


﻿(d) "UNDP Study" means the pre-investment study of the power
sector Number HAI/74/011/A/01/42 presently carried out in the Bor-
rower's country with the financial assistance of the United Nations
Development Programme.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services)
for the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1978 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall Day to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1986 and ending May 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on May 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.
Section 2.09. EdH is designated as representative of the Bor-
rower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause EdH to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations there-
in set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action includ-
ing the provision of funds, staff, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EdH to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit avail-
able to EdH under terms and conditions which shall have been ap-
proved by the Association, which shall incl'de, inter alia: (i)
payment of interest at the rate of eight and eighty-five hundredths
per cent (8.85%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time; and (ii) repayment
over twenty-five years including two years of grace.


﻿w                             7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. Except as the parties to this Agreement shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (a) in coordination with
EdH, formulate and furnish to the Association, not later than
September 30, 1977, a comprehensive power sector investment pro-
gram through 1995 that will give due consideration to the recom-
mendations of the UNDP Study; and (b) before undertaking or per-
mitting EdH to undertake, after the completion of the Project, any
investment in the power sector exceeding the equivalent of two
million dollars ($2,000,000), consult and exchange views with the
Association.
Section 4.02. Until the completion of the Project, the Bor-
rower shall not undertake, or per,it EdH to undertake, without
the prior consent of the Association, any investment in the power
sector expected to exceed in the aggregate in any one year one
million five hundred thousand dollars ($1,500,000) equivalent.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall from time to time take all steps necessary or
desirable, including but not limited to increases in EdH's tariffs,
to enable EdH to earn an annual rate of return, as specified in
Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take all legislative action
as to be necessary to amend, by December 31, 1976 or such later
date as the Borrower and the Association shall agree, the provi-
sions of its Basic Law, concerning EdH organizational structure,
under arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-8-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that electricity bills owed EdH are settled and paid in
time under arrangements satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.


﻿II
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) EdH shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation under the Project Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which,shall
make it improbable that EdH will be able to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
(c) the Borrower's Basic Law shall have been amended, sus-
pended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materi-
ally and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the
obligations of the parties under this Agreement or obligations in
the Project Agreement; and
(d) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of EdH or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:


﻿- 10 -
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period.
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower and EdH; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
0


﻿9                            - 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the execution and delivery of the Proj-
ect Agreement on behalf of EdH have been duly authorized or ra-
tified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered
on behalf of, EdH, and is legally binding upon EdH in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 30, 1976 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.01 (b), Section 4.03 and Section 4.05 of this Agreement and the
provisions of paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of State for Finance and Economic
Affairs of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified. for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secr6tairerie d'Etat des Finances
et des Affaires Economiques
Palais des Finances
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
Cable address:                     Telex:
Secretairerie d'Etat des           (349)0083
Finances et des Affaires
Economiques
Port-au-Prince
Haiti
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By /s/ Emmanuel Bros
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Enrique Lerdau
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 114-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Exenditures
Category           Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Diesel power                8,900,000        100% of foreign
station                                      expenditures or
90%
(2) Transmission and            3,700,000        100% of foreign
distribution sys-                            expenditures or
tems, and other                              85%
works
(3) Other equipnent               500,000        100% of foreign
and materials                                expenditures
(4) Consultants'                1,000,000        100% of foreign
services                                     expenditures
(5) Unallocated                 1,900,000
TOTAL      16,000,000


﻿-15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then appli-
*      cable to such item as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may
be made on account of payments made for such expenditures: (i)
after June 1, 1976, in respect of Category (1) in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $620,000; and (ii) after
February 1, 1975, in respect of Category (4) in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of $500,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient


﻿-16 -
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Generation Facilities
Construction of a medium speed diesel power station with about
21 MW capacity adjacent to HASCO sugar factory in Port-au-
Prince, equipped with two units of about 2.9 MW capacity each
and two units of about 7.5 MW capacity each.
Part B:   Transmission, Distribution and Other Works
(a) Installation of 69 KV single circuit transmission lines
(about 21 km) and of a 115 KV double circuit transmission
line (about 5.4 km) and expansion of existing transmis-
sion lines.
(b) Construction of five sub-stations at Canape-Vert,
Martissant, Carrefour Feuilles, Croix des Missions
and Place Geffrard and expansion of the existing sub-
station at Delmas.
(c) Expansion and rehabilitation of existing distribution
networks.


﻿- 18 -
(d) Improvements of the transmission system between
the existing Peligre hydropower station and
Port-au-Prince.
(e) Construction and equipping of a training center.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
(a) Consultants' services for engineering and super-
vision of Part A and Part B of the Project.
(b) Training of EdH staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1977.


