Report No. PID11211
Project Name                     JORDAN-Conservation of Medicinal and (@)
Herbal Plants Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (100%)
Project ID                       P069847
Borrower(s)                      HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Implementing Agency
THE ENHANCED PRODUCTIVITY PROGRAM (EPP) OF THE MOP
Address: P.O Box 555, Amman, Jordan
Contact Person: Dr. Kamal Khdier
Tel: +962-6-4644466
Fax: +962-6-4649341
Email: kkhdier@mop.gov.jo
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 14, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              February 13, 2003
Bank Approval Date               May 29, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
In June 1998, the General Corporation for Environment Protection
(GCEP-transformed into the Ministry of Environment since January 2003), in
collaboration with the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), and
the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), prepared the Jordan
Country Biodiversity Study. One of the long-term objectives of this study
is to ensure the protection and conservation of the broadest possible
range of global biodiversity and its rational use. The proposed project
is consistent with the recommendation of this study to carry out extensive
work to protect Jordan's rich diversity of M/H plants. The
commercialization of M/H plants is also recognized as a key component of
GOJ's poverty alleviation and rural development objectives. The project
is also consistent with the 1996 National Environment Action Plan's (NEAP)
recommendation to improve measures to combat Jordan's loss of its natural
heritage embodied in M/H plants.
Environmental Law No. 12, Article No. 21, of 1995 states that "Regulations
shall determine the specifications and conditions that must be found in
any natural reserve for wild and marine life or national parks, and the
preservation and environmental protection thereof". The Royal Society for
the Conservation of Nature (RSCN) is mandated to establish and manage
wildlife reserves in Jordan under the supervision of the Ministry of
Environment (MOENV). The 1996 Charter of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) recognizes the importance of conservation and sustainable use of M/H
plants to meet agricultural diversification objectives and enhance the
efficiency of land and water use. In December 2002, GOJ endorsed the
National Strategy for Agricultural Development (NSAD) for the decade
ending in 2010. The strategy highlights the importance of conserving and
expanding M/H plants in the environmental and production systems in Jordan
and has identified M/H plants as one of the six priority areas under the



rain-fed agriculture sector that should be implemented to achieve the
Strategy's goals and objectives. Within MOA, the National Center for
Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer (NCARTT) is mandated to
conserve M/H plant genetic resources, identify cultivation practices, and,
where appropriate, seek the cropping of M/H species with commercial value.
Despite the fact that conservation of M/H plants figure as priorities in
the NEAP (1996), the Jordan Country Biodiversity Study (1998), and the
NSAD (2002), no work has been undertaken in this field except for those
conducted during the implementation of the GEF PDF-Block B grant.
The GEF PDF-Block B grant studies included obtaining preliminary baseline
data to: (i) establish a M/H plant inventory; (ii) estimate the demand and
supply of M/H plants used for human and livestock health care and other
needs; (iii) compile a database of M/H plants; and (iv) list M/H species
suitable for possible ex-situ cultivation to relieve in-situ pressure.
Information from these studies was instrumental in formulating the sector
issues and designing some of the project components. As such, the
following sector issues were identified as priority issues to be
addressed: (i) lack of institutional and technical capacity; (ii) lack of
understanding and addressing of the causes of biodiversity loss and
barriers to its sustainable use; (iii) lack of demand responsive applied
research; and (iv) lack of product and market development approaches.
At present, there is little capacity to implement the project's
development objective and no clear mechanism to facilitate effective
collaboration and cooperation between MOENV, MOA, MOH, RSCN, other
ministries and agencies, the private sector, NGOs, and the users regarding
the long-term conservation, management and sustainable use of M/H plants
in a manner that would fulfill the objectives identified above. Hence,
there will be strong emphasis in the project on capacity building.
2. Objectives
The Development Objective of the proposed project is to design and test
models to improve the conservation of medicinal and herbal plants and the
livelihood of rural communities through the management, and sustainable
use of medicinal and herbal (M/H) plants for human and livestock needs in
specific areas of Jordan (the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley and
the Mujib Nature Reserve) while ensuring effective in-situ protection of
threatened habitats and ecosystems in these areas.
Project Global Objectives: (see Annex 1)
The global environmental objective is the improved conservation and
sustainable use of M/H plants (several of which are rare and endemic, and
thus of global importance) at the national and the local levels for the
selected areas through achieving the following targets over and above the
Baseline Scenario: (i) establishing a framework for M/H plant biodiversity
conservation and management, (ii) strengthening institutions and
implementing a coordination program, (iii) promoting in-situ conservation
and sustainable use of M/H plants in 2 pilot sites, and (iv) designing and
implementing a communication strategy.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank and the GEF have fruitfully collaborated with GOJ in implementing
- 2 -



CDD conservation activities, such as the "Strengthening of RSCN and
Conservation of the Dana Wildlands Project", the "Gulf of Aqaba
Environmental Action Plan Project " and the "Second Tourism Development
Project". The Bank's involvement in the GEF-assisted M/H plant projects
allows valuable lessons to be incorporated into this project and affords
the opportunity to promote an exchange of ideas, facilitate
cross-fertilization with other GEF-projects and create a M/H plants
network.
The principal value added of GEF support is based on its global experience
in designing, implementing and financing biodiversity conservation
projects. The GEF support is justified by the global significance of M/H
plants in Jordan, the existing threats to ecosystem integrity and species
survival and the commitment of the Government and NGOs to implement the
project. The GEF support will enable the project to target globally
valued and threatened M/H plants and, to a limited extent, address
international water conservation issues, reduce the threat of
desertification and increase carbon sequestration.
The GEF conservation alternative will build on the baseline scenario of
'without project intervention' by strengthening conservation management in
the pilot sites. The GEF support would enable key information to be
gathered on the socio-economic and biological data of in-situ M/H plants
harvested, their status and their habitats. This information can be used
to derive appropriate management practices within the pilot sites.
Currently, national efforts to regulate the harvesting of M/H plants are
very limited. Also, there is little, if any, integration of M/H plant
cultivation into agricultural systems. At present, training programs do
not exist and the knowledge base is relatively small. Similarly,
experiences with public awareness programs of M/H plants is limited to a
few NGO groups. Therefore, the GEF alternative would:
n Actively link the development of guidelines for conserving M/H plant
hotspots and the sustainable management and harvesting of M/H plants with
community needs and commercial demands.
n Monitor and evaluate the status of key rare/threatened M/H plants. This
will serve as an important indicator of ecosystem health and human demand
in the selected areas.
n Integrate pastoral farming with the sustainable use of rangelands to
reduce the threat of wind and water erosion and with the long-term aim of
increasing the presence of M/H plants.
n Expand the database and gene pool for M/H plants.
n Intensify current efforts to capture traditional knowledge and expand
knowledge of the botany of M/H plants and their use in Jordan.
n Support the development of training programs in scientific institutes
and for farmers that focus on sustainable management and harvesting
techniques.
n Promote public awareness on a national scale through financing formal
and informal education and public awareness initiatives in all aspects of
M/H plants conservation.
4. Description
The proposed project components will comprise of activities at the
national level and at the site-specific level. GEF will fund the
-3 -



incremental costs of the first three components. MOP is funding Component
4 for 2003 and 2004 in the amount of $1.4 million. The activities funded
by MOP under Component 4 are to start by March 2003. MOP has committed to
secure funding for the total amount of $3.5 million over the life of the
project. Securing remaining funding of $2.1 million for the
implementation of this component will be part of the PMU's activities,
with support from the EPP/MOP and the World Bank.
1. Institutional Strengthening: This component focuses on strengthening
the institutional and technical capacity of key players through : (1.1)
Developing and providing an organizational mechanism for project
implementation; (1.2) Developing crucial inter-sector links (MOA, MOE,
MOIT, MOH, MOENV, NGOs, pharmaceutical industry, consumers, producers) and
regulatory instruments; (1.3) Developing intellectual property rights
(IPR) policy and guidelines for indigenous knowledge and use of M/H plants
for medical and other purposes by humans and livestock; (1.4)
Establishing health and safety standards for M/H plants and products;
(1.5) Establishing a national M/H plants database/GIS and plant gene bank
that will provide an inventory of Jordan's M/H plant species,
distribution, status (common - rare) and an herbarium collection; and
(1.6) Capacity Building through designing and implementing a Training
Program.
2. Pilot-Sites Conservation: The two conservation sub-components covering
(2.1) the in-situ conservation and use of M/H plants and (2.2) the ex-situ
pilot cultivation of selected M/H plants to relieve in-situ pressure. The
two pilot areas for in-situ conservation are Mujib Nature Reserve adjacent
to the Dead Sea, and the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley covering
the Madaba area. These areas cover important sites of M/H plants. Other
areas can be incorporated into M/H plants conservation in later periods,
based on the experiences gained from these pilot initiatives. Activities
include: (i) preparation and implementation of site conservation
management plans, including development and implementation of appropriate
management tools for sustainable use of M/H plants and their products,
where warranted; (ii) piloting of farmer-based cultivation trials for a
selected number of threatened and indigenous M/H species in home gardens,
and as boundary and buffer zones in the reserve; and (iii) monitoring and
evaluation. All these sites will have demonstration components so that
lessons learned can be passed on to farmers in the area and in similar
agro-climatic zones. As mentioned above, trials in the in-situ areas
could be used for ex-situ production of M/H plants to relieve in-situ
pressure. Two types of trials will be tested under sub-component (2.2):
ex-situ farming demonstrations, and pilot-prototype farm demonstrations.
3. Public Awareness and Education: This component would include the
development of public education (including school and college curricula)
and mass awareness campaigns on the relevance of conserving and managing
Jordan's M/H plants and their importance in the country's biodiversity.
It will be carried out in cooperation with NGOs, schools, universities,
and the private sector. It consists of two sub-components: 3.1
Environmental Education and 3.2 Public Awareness.
4. Income Generation Activities: M/H Quality Enhancement, Product
Development: One of the best ways to conserve plants is to ensure that
they have actual or potential economic value. Then farmers will look after
- 4 -



them in the wild, want to manage them sustainably and grow them ex-situ as
a cash crop. The purpose of this component is to add value to M/H plants
for local use and for exports by producing organically grown and certified
plants, ensuring proper handling and grading of M/H plants, and using the
correct processing procedures to ensure quality products. This will be
backed up by providing market intelligence to the farmers and producers
and searching for new markets and products based on M/H plants. In order
to ensure that the disadvantaged, including women, can play an active role
in the M/H plant industry (from growing to the finished product), the
availability and access to micro-credit schemes will be essential. Three
sub-components will be included as follows: 4.1 Standardization of M/H
plants raw materials and processing; 4.2 Product promotion; and 4.3
Facilitating access to micro-credit.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $5 .71
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $5.00
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED) $3.50
Total Project Cost $14.21
6. Implementation
Project implementation will be coordinated by a small Project Management
Unit (PMU) housed with the Enhanced Productivity Program (EPP) of the
Ministry of Planning (MOP) . The PMU will coordinate the activities of all
implementing agencies: RSCN, NCARTT and NCARTT/EFJ as reflected in Annexes
12, 14, and 16. In addition, the project will link and coordinate with
several key institutions to address project objectives: e.g. the MOP, MOA,
MOENV, MOH, MOE, MOIT; NGOs; and the private sector. A five-year period
is envisaged for the implementation of this GEF project. The project's
management organigramme is presented in Annex 12.
The EPP meets the criteria necessary for optimal project implementation
and sustainability. EPP is well positioned to provide the GOJ counterpart
funding along with MOA and NCARTT, can attract external funding for the
implementation of the fourth component, and has the environment to attract
high caliber staff. The Government's commitment to the EPP, the
flexibility and the accountability of the EPP are highly valuable
essentials for project implementation. For the project to be successful,
it is crucial that the PMU is able to operate in a flexible and
transparent manner, as well as to attract competitively recruited eminent
staff with project management experiences and TORs acceptable to the Bank.
During the early stages of project implementation, the performance of the
PMU within the EPP will be closely monitored as it would be the first
experience of EPP to channel GEF/World Bank funds with its multifaceted
provisions. The EPP will establish the PMU and process essential
procurement contracts prior to project effectiveness. MOP/EPP's
contributions include: (i) input from staff counterparts: i.e. the EPP
Project Coordinator and the EPP Contracting Officer as well as from other
staff, such as the M&E and the Public Affairs officers, as warranted; and
(ii) office space, equipment and communication tools (e-mail, direct phone
and fax lines; and desk computers) and two vehicles. The EPP Project
Coordinator will be directly responsible for the supervision of the
- 5-



project for the GOJ.
Co-financing is as follows: Total EPP contribution to the PMU is $404,600
and this amount is included in the MOP/EPP 2003 budget. NCARTT
counterpart funding of $2 million consists of the secondment of 2 NCARTT
staff full time to the lead M/H plants function, and input from the staff
of 5 research stations, one vehicle and portable computer for the M/H
plants lead specialist, operational cots, land rental, and agricultural
equipment. RSCN counterpart funding of $1.3 million includes allocation
of: top management and operational staff time, vehicles,
site-accommodations, and operating costs. GOJ's contribution to Mujib
Nature Reserve land rental is $1.21 million. ECOHERB Farms of Jordan's
counterpart funding includes infrastructure, facilities and land amounting
to $790,000.
Project management:
The PMU will:
1. prepare annual work plans and budgets;
2. supervise implementation of project components;
3. ensure liaison, communication, collaboration, and joint problem-solving
between the implementing entities and other stakeholders;
4. promote the active participation and contribution of the local
population, the private sector, and NGOs;
5. procure services and equipment in accordance with World Bank
procurement guidelines;
6. account for project expenditures and present accounts for audit
annually; and
7. provide quarterly and annual progress reports in a format acceptable to
the World Bank.
The PMU will coordinate the project activities of three implementation
entities:
1. NCARTT which will implement the M/H plants database and gene bank
(Component 1.6), the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley in-situ
subcomponent (Component 2.1) and part of the ex-situ sub-component
(Component 2.2);
2. Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature (RSCN) which will
implement the Mujib Nature Reserve in-situ component (Component 2.1);
3. ECOHERB Farms of Jordan (EFJ) which will implement the pilot farm of
the ex-situ component with TA from NCARTT (Component 2.2).
The PMU will have a crucial coordinating role in linking the key players.
NCARTT will have a prominent role as the technical service provider. The
PMU will be staffed with a Project Manager, a lead local specialist in M/H
plants; a Monitoring & Evaluation and Training Specialist; a Financial
Management/Procurement Specialist (3 years); one Administrative Assistant
and one Driver. Since this is a new area for Jordan, the positions of the
project manager and the M/H specialist will be coupled with an
international expert position for the first three years in order to
transfer knowledge and technology. Terms of Reference for these positions
are in Annex 13. Other local and international experts will be hired as
consultants with expertise in fields such as M/H conservation techniques,
monitoring and evaluation, standardization and certification, update of
beneficiary and scientific surveys, etc. Each PMU position will have EPP
- 6 -



or NCARTT staff as counterparts. All staff will be recruited
competitively. Small implementation units will be established at the two
pilot conservation areas. These units will be under the supervision of
the PMU. Two organizations will manage these pilot sites, namely RSCN at
Mujib Nature Reserve and NCARTT in the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift
Valley. The PMU will be supervising all the component and sub-component
activities outlined in Section C above.
A well-designed monitoring and evaluation system (M&E) is critical to
ensure the project's timely and successful implementation and to enhance
its impact through a systematic analysis of lessons learned and their
effective dissemination. The project's M&E will be the responsibility of
the PMU. Monitoring will be based on the five baseline surveys already
undertaken during the PDF-B phase. Further baseline surveys may be
required in the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley. The PMU will
monitor and evaluate performance annually by conducting beneficiary
surveys. In addition, scientific surveys should be undertaken every two
years to monitor M/H plants and the farming systems, etc. and evaluate
changes. In addition, under the umbrella of the Steering Committee, the
EPP Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will carry out an independent M&E
assessment every 6 months during the first year of the project.
The PMU will design a simple Management Information System for M&E,
reporting formats for each component and sub-component, including targeted
annual performance objectives and monitoring indicators using Annex 1 as
the basis. Quarterly reports are required covering the implementation
progress, the use of funds and the project's impact. These reports will
be consolidated by the PMU into yearly progress reports to be submitted
through the MOP to the Bank within two months of the end of the fourth
quarterly report due on December 31. These progress reports will also
include an implementation plan and a work program for the next year. The
format of the reports will be agreed with the Bank. A mid-term review
will be carried out to assess overall progress. Lessons learned, with
recommendations for improvements, if any, would be used to restructure the
project if necessary.
Composition of the Steering and Technical Committees (Annex 15)
The PMU will be guided by a Steering Committee, to be chaired by the
Secretary General of the Ministry of Planning. The Steering Committee will
itself consist of a core of five voting permanent members (the Secretary
General of the Ministry of Planning, the Director of NCARTT, the Director
of RSCN, the Chairman of EFJ and the Project Manager). In addition the
Committee will include the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education,
The Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Director of
the MOP Department of Environment, Water and Tourism, the Director of the
Department of Standards and Measurement of the Ministry of Industry and
Trade, the EPP Acting Director and Project Coordinator, the Director of
NCARTT, the Jordan Exporters and Producer's Association for Fruit and
Vegetables, representatives from the farming community, and a
representative of local communities. The project Steering Committee has
the mandate to supervise and direct the implementation of the project
activities (including the prompt resolution of bottlenecks) and will
approve annual work programs and budgets.
-7-



A Technical Committee, chaired by the Project Manager, will be composed of
the heads of relevant project components or sub-components, the PMU staff,
representatives of academia (Universities of Jordan and Science and
Technology), the private sector, NGOs (Jordan River Foundation, the
Hashemite Fund, the Noor Al Hussein Foundation and RSCN), an architect,
and representatives of the EU, GTZ, and USAID. It will have the mandate to
provide technical guidance in implementation and monitoring and evaluation
of activities.
Role of MOA
The Minister of Agriculture is the head of NCARTT. As mentioned above,
NCARTT will be the leading technical service provider. MOA will have a
prominent role in the project in four areas as detailed below and
reflected in Annexes 12, 14, 16, and 17: (i) The Director of NCARTT is a
core member of the Steering Committee and the Secretary General is a
committee member; (ii) NCARTT is seconding staff to the project (iii)
NCARTT will manage the in-situ Rift Valley sites; (iv) NCARTT will provide
technical support for the ex-situ component; (v) the national M/H plants
database and plant gene bank will be managed by, and located in, NCARTT;
and (vi) MOA will implement some activities under Component 4 as part of
the National Strategy for Agricultural Development. In addition, NCARTT
is providing counterpart funding for: 2 counterpart positions with the
PMU, input from staff of 5 research stations, land, and equipments.
7. Sustainability
Technical sustainability of the project will be ensured by: (a) enhanced
biodiversity protection through grazing contracts with local communities,
(b) outlining a clear mandate for NCARTT to conduct demand driven applied
research on M/H plants rather than basic research.
The institutional sustainability of the project will be ensured by: (a)
direct involvement of farmers, local communities and other beneficiaries,
(b) intersectoral links development through regularly held technical
meetings by relevant ministries.
Social sustainability of the project will be ensured by: (a) the
participation of local communities in management, decision making and
monitoring of the pilot-sites conservation, (b) the implementation of a
public awareness campaign for the conservation and sustainable use of M/H
plants, (c) extensive prior experience demonstrated by RSCN with respect
to community participation in the "Conservation of the Dana Wildlands and
Strengthening of the RSCN" project (GEF/IBRD/UNDP).
Financial and economic sustainability of the project will be ensured by:
(a) providing farmers with marketing analysis to identify most profitable
plants and processed goods, (b) providing Bank support GOJ in securing
funding for the last three years' funding of Component 4.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
This is the first fully fledged project in Jordan focusing on the
conservation of M/H plants. Hence, lessons learned from experience gained
elsewhere in this sector and, through community-driven development
projects in general, will be incorporated into the project. These lessons
- 8 -



include: (i) the project design should include technical and stakeholder
reviews before it is finalized; and (ii) clearly defined goals and
objectives are essential to focus project efforts, monitor progress, and
to demonstrate impacts.
Important lessons emerging from ongoing M/H plants projects and
community-based natural resources management projects are or will be used
to develop this initiative. This knowledge will deepen through
information sharing, study tours and staff exchanges throughout project
preparation and implementation.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        In compliance with OP 4.01 this project is
categorized as a Category B (Partial Assessment) project. An
Environmental Assessment (EA) of the project activities has been conducted
by the GOJ and an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was chosen as the
appropriate instrument to address potential environmental impacts and to
propose mitigation and Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) measures. Close
consultation with NCARTT, MOA, MOP/EPP, NGOs, farmers and other
stakeholders took place. The EMP is based on background studies and
surveys, namely: an inventory of M/H plants, a cultivation study, a
socio-economic survey, a database, and an institutional capacity
assessment. The PMU/EPP will have the overall responsibility for
implementation of the EMP in close coordination with the implementing
agencies. In summary, the EA determined that:
n Large areas of the rangelands are deteriorating because of drought
conditions exacerbated, among others, by overgrazing and over-harvesting
of M/H plants. This has contributed to reducing biodiversity on these
lands and there is an incipient loss of minerals from the soils, including
carbon due to decreased vegetation cover. This is compounded by an
increase in wind and water erosion, as a result of non-sustainable
practices, leading to a spiral of decline in the carrying capacity of the
land. Some arable land is in poor condition due to repeated failure of
grain crops and the invasion of noxious weeds. Alternative M/H crops have
been tried by NCARTT on a limited experimental basis. These hold some
promise as they mature earlier and require less water.
n Some flora (and fauna) is under threat as a result of these
deteriorating conditions (as is the livelihood of farming communities).
If little or nothing is done to halt this decline then many rangeland
areas and marginal arable areas will slowly degrade and become non-viable
even as pastoral land. This will directly affect the livelihood of rural
communities as M/H plants are a major source of accessible and affordable
health care for human and livestock.
n Some of these lands will eventually reach desert status with adverse
national, regional and even global consequences for biodiversity, carbon
sequestration and the quality and quantity of water flow. The proposal to
identify and utilize cultivation practices for threatened high-demand M/H
plants does not pose an environmental risk.
10. Contact Point:
9



Task Manager
Nicole Glineur
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1 202 473 2512
Fax: 202-477-1981 / 1609 / 1374
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 10 -



