JORDAN: CONSERVATION OF MEDICINAL AND HERBAL PLANTS
ENVIRONMENTAL ASESSMENT
AND ENVIORNMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
October 18, 2002                        E658
I. OBJECTIVE
An environmental assessment of various project activities has been made and mitigation
measures are proposed in the EMP to address possible environmental impacts of the Jordan
(Global Environment Facility) Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project. The EMP
as outlined in the table below is subject to change and improvement as the dialogue with the
beneficiaries and the Project Management Team continues during project maturation. It is
anticipated that there will not be a need for specific EA.
The objective of the project is to improve the livelihood and health of rural communities
through the conservation, management and sustainable use of medicinal and herbal (M/H)
plants for human and livestock needs. The proposed project components will comprise
activities at the national level and at the site-specific level. The following key development
issues will be addressed in the project components: (1) the limited institutional capacity; (2) the
need for sound policy and action to conserve and use medicinal and herbal plants; (3) the
economic costs and benefits as well as safety issues for M/H plants and products, and; (4) the
necessity to promote a strategy to expand public awareness in all aspects of M/H plant
conservation and use and to expand the program outside the project areas.
The project components are:
1. Institutional Strengthening (i) development and provision of an organizational mechanism
for project implementation, (ii) development of inter-sector links, (iii) development of
intellectual property rights, (iv) establishment of standards, safety and efficacy testing, and (v)
establishment of a national medicinal plants database and plant gene bank.
2. Pilot Sites Conservation (i-situ conservation and sustainable use of M/H plants:
Development and implanting implementation of site community management plans which will
include grazing agreements, water-catchment and harvesting measures, enrichment planting,
contour planting with shrubs to reduce erosion and planting at right angles to the prevailing
wind with M/H shrubs and trees (including nitrogen fixing perennials) to improve the
micro-climate, soil fertility and provision of nutritious feed for the animals and preparing
guidelines for sustainable harvesting. All sites will have demonstration components so that
lessons learned can be passed on to farmers in the area and in similar agro-climatic zones, and
(ii) Ex-situ cultivation trials: on-farn pilot propagation and cultivation trials of medicinal plants
to remove pressure on wild populations. This will include pilot cultivation trials of threatened,
rare and high-demand medicinal and herbal plant used for human and livestock health care,


﻿culinary purposes and species used by the cosmetic industry.
3. Public Awareness and Education: (i) environmental education, and (ii) public awareness.
4. Income Generating Activities (i) certification of organically grown M/H plants and their
products, (ii) standardization of M/H raw materials and processing, (iii) income generation
through product promotion, and (iv) credit for income generating activities.
A botanical inventory was compiled for each location along with socio-anthropological
and ethno-pharmacological assessments. Threats to future supplies of M/H plants include:
habitat destruction; ineffective legislation inside and outside protected areas; insufficient
information on status, distribution, value and use of medicinal plants; absence of a national
medicinal plant conservation program; and a high demand for effective species. It is estimated
that 60% of the population relies on plant-based remedies for their daily healthcare needs.
II. MAIN ENVIRONEMTNAL IMPACTS AND MITIGATION MEASURES
This project will have positive effects on the environment. Furthermore, it will lead to the
sustainable use and preservation of an important gene pool of medicinal and herbal plants. This
initiative will act as a model for the conservation of M/H plants throughout Jordan. The project
will promote the conservation and sustainable use of naturally occurring areas of M/H plants,
and through the ex-situ sub-component coupled with the strengthening of the gene pool of M/H
plants, encourage the propagation of these plants in suitable habitats. It could be considered as
a model for other countries in the region and provide a platform for an exchange of experiences
and best practices.
The project is also likely to have a positive social impact with the important objective of
improving the health status of human and livestock populations.
The project's objectives are to achieve good conservation and management practices of
medicinal and herbal plants. Thus, the main features of the EMP are to demonstrate the best
pastoral and arable practices on pilot areas and then use these pilot areas as springboards to
spread such practices to similar areas in Jordan and elsewhere. A dominant feature of this plan
is the protection and enhancement of M/H plants in the wild and their propagation through
arable farming ex-situ in order to relievein-situ pressure. As part of this effort, areas prone to
wind and water erosion will be targeted for special attention. These interventions should
improve the microclimate, but also increase sustainability of M/H plants and improved fodder
species. Areas containing valuable, rare or endangered M/H plants will be pinpointed and
protected. Ex-situ emphasis will be placed on increasing such plants in marginal cereal areas,
and in kitchen and school gardens.
There are important natural habitats that will be protected through Component 2, 'Pilot
Site Conservation', Component 3, 'Public Awareness and Education,' and under Component 4,
'Income Generating Activities'. Thus, besides protecting arid and semi-arid ecosystems under
the GEF's Operation Framework 1 (OP 01), the project will be protecting natural habits (OP
2


﻿04), improving watershed management (OP 07), as well as the recently approved OP 13
program, 'the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity important to agriculture.'
Therefore, this project is of considerable importance for environmental protection.
It is planned that the nature reserves and hotspots containing M/H plants will be protected
and no encroachment will be permitted, nor will the use of agro-chemicals be allowed in these
areas. There might eventually be an increase in grazing and browsing plants due to the
project's potential success in reversing rangeland degradation. Thus, there is a slight possibility
that there will be a tendency to overgraze such areas by reducing bought-in feed and/or
increasing animal numbers, and hence endanger M/H plants. Therefore, steps will be taken to
demonstrate sustainable environmental friendly pastoral practices, such as exclusion, controlled
grazing, and emphasizing quality rather than quantity.
As the promotion of organic farming is one of the aims of the project, integrated pest
management will be part of the demonstration activities, as will be the appropriate use of
organic fertilizers, mulch and green manure. No pesticides will be procured under the project.
However, some farmers may use certain herbicides, pesticides and chemical fertilizers when
growing M/H plants. The project will monitor and encourage the use of permitted herbicides
and pesticides and in addition training courses and information will be available concerning the
proper,storage, handling and use of such chemicals and the correct disposal methods for
containers.
In order to undertake baseline surveys and to monitor the project's performance, some
additional training of personnel and beneficiaries may be required. This could be done by the
Project Management Team (Component 1), by the Monitoring and Evaluation Specialists
(Component 2), and through the Education and Public Awareness Programs (Component 3). It
is envisaged that the beneficiaries, including school children, will be actively involved in the
monitoring of the project and will be the eyes and ears for the project.
Sustainability of EMP: Establishment of standards and quality control measures will
increase potential for sustainability of environmentally sound practices at all levels, since
Jordan currently lacks such a framework, particularly for medicinal plants (resources
conservation, handling and produces).
III. SAFEGUARDS
The GEF Conservation of M/H Plants Project will have a mostly beneficial impact on the
environment; however, some safeguards are triggered by the project. In accordance with World
Bank policy, OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) is triggered by the project. OP 4.09 (Pest
Management) and OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats) are not triggered. The reasons for this are stated
below:
OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment): OP 4.01, the environmental assessment process,
has been triggered since the implementation of the Conservation of M/H Plants Project could
have potentially adverse environmental impacts. The EA, however, has determined that there
3


﻿are no potential large scale, significant or irreversible environmental impacts. Those potential
impacts that were identified can be effectively mitigated and are addressed in the EMP. The
EMP identifies the major potential environmental issues that could arise as a result of project
interventions and propose measures to be taken to prevent and/or mitigate these effects,
including training and monitoring measures.
OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats): OP 4.04 is not triggered since the project will not suppo
activities that lead to significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats.
Below are descriptions of the natural habitats targeted in this project:
*    The Wadi Mujib Nature Reserve is a 215 sq. km reserve, adjacent to the Dead Sea, inthe
central-west region of Jordan. While the reserve is Dept. of Forestry (DOF) land, the DOF has
delegated its management to the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature (RSCN). The
rainfall in this reserve ranges from 250 to 350 mm and is a water-stressed and eroded area.
Four bio-geographical regions can be found in the Mujib Reserve, namely Irano-turranian,
Sudanian, Transitional Mediterranean, and Water. Out of the thirteen vegetation types existing
in Jordan, four are present in the reserve containing 396 identified flora and fauna species.
These vegetation types are: Non-forest Mediterranean Steppe, Steppe, Wadi Systems, and
Water. A vegetation survey, including medicinal plants, was undertaken by the RSCN.
Communities inside and outside the reserve graze sheep and goats. Grazing areas and grazing
patterns within the reserve were agreed upon by the shepherds and RSCN and have been
followed except during drought. This working relationship will be used as a basis for the
identification and conservation of M/H plants, and to gather information from shepherds and
their families regarding the traditional uses of these plants. Such information will be used to
formulate management plans for the sustainable use of these resources. Because of the high
water stress levels and the incidence of severe erosion, the management plans will incorporate
water conservation measures such as micro-catchment and erosion control initiatives, including
the planting of local M/H shrubs and trees.
*    Northern Badia. This is a highly water-stressed Hammada desert area of Northern Badia
(Safawi and Azraq). It belongs to the Saharo-Arabian bio-geographical zone and has an annual
precipitation ranging from 50 to 250 mm. All the plants recorded in this area are desert species
that can withstand drought and high temperatures. It is inhabited by Bedouin families that use
the area for grazing. Safawi Bedouins gather medicinal and herbal plants as they graze their
livestock. The use of medicinal plants for curing certain diseases is very common. These
include such plants as Achillea falcata, Matricaria aurea, Thymus bovei, Paronychia argentea,
Teucrium poliumand Salvia tripola Home gardens are common among the inhabitants of
Azraq city where women cultivate, gather and store medicinal and herbal plants for household
use. Various medicinal and herbal plants tgum palaestinum, Foeniculum vulgare,
Cyclamen persicum, Pergularia tomentosa, Salvia tripola) were reported either as extinct or as
rare, especially in Azraq.
OP 4.09 (Pest Management) OP 4.09 is not triggered since the project will not support
the procurement of pesticides or pesticide application equipment, nor will the project affect pest
management in a way that could cause harm. As the promotion of organic farming is one of the
4


﻿aims of the project, integrated pest management will be part of the demonstration and
awareness activities as will be the appropriate use of organic fertilizers, mulch and green
manure. The project will closely monitor activities regarding the production of M/H plants.
IV. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGMENT PLAN: ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
The project has carried out an environmental assessment and as a result has developed
the following mitigation plan. This plan ensures that the rural people in general and the
beneficiaries in particular manage M/H plants and undertake the growing of rare and
endangered M/H plants using the appropriate horticultural and farming practices, so as not to
reverse environmental gains. Meetings were held with beneficiaries and information obtained
about the use and availability of M/H plants. These meetings will continue and management
plans will be drawn up by the beneficiaries for the project areas with the help of project staff,
consultants and other interested parties.
Issues                  Anticipated/Potential Environmental  Actions or Mitigation Measures
Impacts
Lack of awareness and low  Slow progress in increasing biodiversity, Provide capacity building and training
capacity to manage in-situ  esp. M/H plants, improved land-use  for PMU.
protection (reserves and 20 management, water management and
hotspots) and ex-situ M/H  C.-storage.                     Consult and agree with farmers & other
production.                                                beneficiaries to protect and manage
areas with rare and endangered M/H
plants.
Provide training to farmers on
sustainable management of rangeland
Probability of occurrence: Moderate areas and develop Management Plans.
Over-exploitation of some  Decrease of M/H plants and deterioration Protect wild M/H plants, limit grazing,
areas of 'wild' M/H plants  of rangelands.                 protect erosion-threatened areas,
because of increased                                      improve management of rangelands
demand for M/H plants.  Reduction of global impact of project.  and increase use of perennials in all
land-use types.
Ensure that M/H plants in reserves and
hotspots are identified and quantified.
Monitor biodiversity.
Draw up agreed plans with
beneficiaries to protect and improve
stocking of wild M/H.
Promote ex-situ production of
Probability of occurrence: Very Low. rare/endangered M/H plants.
5


﻿Improved Soil and water  With the introduction of better pastoral  Monitor reserves and hotspots to
quality                 (and arable) farming systems, soil and  establish the effect of better farming
water quality and flow will improve.  systems on soil and water quality
Slight increase in grazing and browsing  Develop management plans, improve
plants in rangelands due to project's  management of rangelands,
potential success in reversing rangeland  demonstrate pastoral practices.
degradation.
M/H plant numbers increase, better
productive lands with increased organic
matter and carbon sequestration. Soil
moisture retention increased.
Probability of occurrence: Moderate.
Increased ex-situ production Increased demand for M/H plants and  Identify wild M/H plant areas through
of M/H plants.          their products enlarges opportunities for community's help.
rural people to expand earning capacity
based on growing indigenous plants.  Survey M/H plant uses.
This reduces the pressure on 'wild' M/H
communities and improves their value as Demonstrate methods for ex-situ
a gene pool.                        growing, harvesting and processing of
M/H plants and products.
Rural people identify (hotspot) areas and
start to protect them. Use the plants both Provide market intelligence and
for sustainable harvesting and as a source contacts with M/H industry.
of ex-situ cultivation.
Probability of occurrence: High
Increased use of         Use of agro-chemicals could influence  Promote IPM and provide training for
agro-chemicals (ex-situ  the quality of M/H plants.         the storage, handling and use, etc.
production).
Negate the use of pesticides and
herbicides through organic
certification.
Provide increased market opportunities
Probability of occurrence: Very Low  for 'organic' M/H plants and products.
Increased Biodiversity   Better rangeland management,        Observe impact on plant (and animal)
conservation measures, shelterbelts fire  communities.
management, contour planting,
micro-catchments, erosion control.  Measure the effects on biodiversity,
Environmentally friendly growing of  water quality and perhaps carbon
M/H plants increased.               sequestration.
Natural evolution of the Gene pool.
Probability of occurrence: High
6


﻿A. MITIGATION PLAN
Component      Potential Issue       Mitigating                  Cost of        Responsibility
Measures                    Installation   of Operation
In-situ M/H plant Increased demand for  Trained operators employed to  Contracts given  PMU/MOA
protection: Wadi M/H plants could lead to protect M/H plants.    to RSCN and    oversees
Mujib Reserve  over exploitation of M/H Develop and agree on     BRDP.          RSCN, BRDP,
and Safawi     plants.               Management Plans with                      and others
Reserve.                             communities (including
rangeland management, pastoral
practices, sustainable harvesting
methods, etc.).
Develop awareness and training
program.
In-situ M/H plant Increased demand for  Trained operators employed to  Contract given to PMU/MOA
protection: M/H  M/H plants could lead to protect M/H.           NHF, NCARTT    oversees NHR,
hotspots.      overexploitation of M/H                           and others.    NCARTT, and
plants.               Develop and agree on                       others.
Management Plans with
communities (including
rangeland management, pastoral
practices, sustainable harvesting
methods, etc.).
Promote ex-situ production.
Develop awareness and training
program.
Ex-situ M/H    Existing facilities used. GOJ building codes followed.  Included in the  PMU/MOA
plant production. Some new buildings and                         project costs.  oversees
equipment needed.                                 Contract given  NCARRT, and
NCARTT; work others.
Potential use of      Promote IPM and provide     with NGOs, e.g.
agro-chemicals        training on IPM and negate the  NIHF and
use of pesticides and herbicides farmers.
through organic certification.
7


﻿Certification of  Existing facilities used. International testing codes  Paid for by  Independent
organically    Some testing and      followed. Processing standards project, but full bodies
grown products / processing equipment  specified.                 cost recovery  supervised by
quality control  needed.                                          program.       MOA/PMU.
and standards.                                                                   Possibly
undertaken by
Universities
and Jordan
Bureau of
Standards.
B. MONITORING PLAN
The PMU will perform regular monitoring and evaluation of project activities.
Monitoring and evaluation will run continuously for the life of the project. A baseline survey of
M/H plants, land use and farming practices will take place at chosav-situ and ex-situ sites in
the first year. Re-surveying will be undertaken yearly or at specific intervals. Analysis of results
will be undertaken at NCARTT and/or Universities. The monitoring of M/H plants and farming
practices will be under the supervision of the MOA/PMU. In-country specialists will receive
additional training if and when required. In addition, local people will be recruited to monitor
flora, especially M/H plants. Environmental monitoring will be incorporated into the overall
project-monitoring plan required by the World Bank as part of project performance. The results
of such monitoring will be recorded and maintained by the PMU throughout the life of the
project.
1. In-situ M/IH Plant Protection and Monitoring Program:
Wadi Mujib Reserve and Safawi Reserve
PARAMETERS
Phase     What            Where      How          When       Why            Resp. of
Operation
Installation
Baseline  Biodiversity,   At         Inventory of  At start of  Determine plant RSCN BRDP
especially M/H  important plants and   project.   cover, etc. at  under PMU.
plants.         selected  quantification          start of project.
State of reserve  sites.  undertaken.             Record existing
(arable, pastoral                                 land-use,
and harvesting                                    especially
.practices).                                       farming practices
Operation Monitor M/H     At selected Inventory of  At set   Determine      Same as
plant number and sites.   Plants and   intervals  change over-time above.
species over time         quantification throughout in quantity and
and state of              undertaken.  the        quality and
Reserve.                               project's  introduce
lifetime.  environmentally
friendly
practices.
2. In-situ M/H Plant Protection and Monitoring Program:


﻿Phase     What             Where     How           When       Why             Resp. of
Operation/
Installation
Baseline  Plant species,   At hotspot Sample       At start of  Determine     NCARTT,
especially M/H,  sites.    surveys.     the project existing plant  NHF and
incidence and                                      numbers by      others
state of hotspots                                  species. Record under PMU.
(for erosion, land                                 existing farming
use, harvesting                                    practices.
practices)
Operation Monitor plants   At the    Sample        At specific Record changes Same as
numbers and      same      surveys and  intervals,  in flora,      above.
species over time hotspot  local        but in the  especially of
and state of     sites.    observations. same      M/H plants, and
hotspots.                               month.     to introduce
environmentally
friendly
practices.
3. Ex-situ M/H Plant Protection and Monitoring Program:
Growing of M/H Plants throughout Jordan
PARAMETERS
Phase     What             Where      How           When         Why            Resp. of
Operation/
Installation
Baseline  Undertake survey Throughout Survey work   At start of  Determine      NCARTT
of area and      Jordan.    and mapping   the project. existing areas,  under PMU.
species of M/H              with help of              plant numbers
plants grown.               local people              by species.
Record existing             and NGOs.                 Determine if
farming practices.                                    farming
practices are
environmentally
friendly.
Operation Monitor ex-situ  Throughout Sample        At specific  Record changes Same as
M/H plants by    Jordan.    surveys and   intervals, but in flora    above.
size and species            local         in the same  especially of
over time.                  observations.  month.     M/H plants.
Record changes in                                     Record
farming practices.                                    incidence of
environmentally
friendly
practices.
4. M/H Plant Organic Certification
9


﻿Certification of M/H Plants and M/H Plant Products throughout Jordan
PARAMETERS
Phase      What             Where       How          When      Why             Resp. of
Operation/
Installation
Baseline   Undertake survey  Throughout Survey work  At start of Determine     NCARTT
of area and species Jordan.  and mapping  the project. potential areas for under PMU.
of wild and                  with help of           organic
cultivated M/H              local people            certification.
plants. Record               and NGOs.
existing farming
practices. Propose
candidates for
organic
certification.
Operate    Monitor organic  Throughout Sample        At specific To pursue organic Same as
farming          Jordan.     surveys and  intervals, certification.  above.
candidates. If and          local         but in the
when certificates            observations. same
given, monitor                            month.
products from such
farms for
certification of
products
C. ESTIMATED IMPLEMENTATION COSTS
The costs of implementing the EMP are included in the total cost of the M/H Project.
1.     Equipment Purchases
At present, there is no need for equipment. However, should this change during project
implementation, it will be reflected in the table below.
Type of Equipment              Number of Unit cost   Total    Local or International
units                 Cost     Purchase
10


﻿2.    Training/Study Tours
In order to ensure proper implementation of the activities outlined in the EMP, as well as
biodiversity conservation and protected area management, the M/H plant project will undertake
an intensive program of environmental training and institutional capacity building.
Training programs will take place throughout the life of the project, on the basis of
identified needs. The training program will cover environmental awareness, species monitoring,
protected areas management and other training on specific environmental issues as identified
over the life of the project. The project will provide training to local community representatives
on biodiversity conservation an on protected areas management. To strengthen development
capacity, particularly among women in the communities, the project will promote environmental
awareness programs to assist women to participate effectively in sustainable utilization of the
natural resource base.
The training needs and consultant services will be detailed during project appraisal and
implementation.
The costs of the training and capacity building program will be covered by each of the
project components.
Type of       No.      Organi- Job  Duration Venue     Institute/Org Cost
Training      Students zation       (days)   (domestic/  anization to (local/foreign)
abroad     provide
training
D. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EMP
Implementation of the EMP will begin in the first quarter with review of project
effectiveness. The activities will continue throughout the life of the project.
Training programs will take place throughout the life of the project, on the basis of
identified needs, with scheduled training for P1VIU staff occurring early in the project
implementation, followed by training programs for local communities. Such training would be
revisited, updated, and delivered on an annual basis, as needed.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation of the EMP will be shared among the PMU, and project implementation
will involve agencies and NGOs, which will be identified during Project Appraisal. The PMU
11


﻿will have the overall responsibility for implementation of the Conservation of M/H Plants
Project and will ensure that the EMP is fully integrated into implementation of the project. The
PMU will ensure that sub-projects with potential adverse environmental impacts undergo
environmental screening, and will monitor the implementation of required mitigation measures.
Under the MOA, the PMU would have the overall responsibility for: M/H plant
protection and the propagation of rare or endangered species; general environmental monitoring;
mitigation, and; performance. The PMU will develop an implementation plan for MIH plant
protection, biodiversity monitoring, soil and water monitoring, and collecting and analyzing all
the relevant data. Surveyors will collect and record all relevant data; these will be analyzed by
NCARTT and/or local/foreign competent expertise, etc. This information will be published in
quarterly and annual reports prepared by the PMU and sent to independent national/international
agencies for evaluation. Within Jordan, technical committees will advise the PMU on the
various aspects of the project, especially those dealing with M/H plants and general
environmental matters. Estimates of M/H plant numbers, biodiversity and water quality, etc. will
conform to agreed standards. At the end of each year in which measurements take place, all data
will be summarized in a usable form for the benefit of stakeholders, MOA, the World Bank/GEF,
and other donors. A database for M/H plants and a website have been established at NCARTT
and will be accessible for all beneficiaries.
F. CONSULTATION WITH LOCAL NGOs AND PROJECT-AFFECTED GROUPS
(The details on all the consultations will be provided in the project file)
During the preparation of the EA/EMP, consultations with community groups, farmers,
NGOs (RSCN, Queen Noor Al-Hussein Foundation, Badia Research and Development Program,
etc.) and Ministries (MOA, MOH, MOP, etc.) were organipedjel areas and with
communities in the vicinity. As part of the PDF-B surveys, small scale farmers, women,
herbalists and healers were targeted to bothform and seek their opinion about the planned
activities. A number of meetings were held in the project areas and in Amman to discuss with
plant collectors and representatives of the private sector. A national stakeholder workshop was
held April 24-25, 2002 to discuss the overall outline of the project, institutional responsibilities
for the different activities, and the involvement of the different stakeholders. There will be
continuous consultations with the beneficiaries, women's groups, affected NGOs and the M/H
plant industry. The results of these consultations will be part of the Project Implementation Plan.
12


