Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25468-JO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUTMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FOR A
CONSERVATION OF MEDICINAL AND HERBAL PLANTS PROJECT
March 20, 2003
Water, Environment, Social and Rural Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2003)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar
JD 0.7 = US$1.0
US$1.4 = JD 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMIR             Achievement of Market Friendly Initiatives and Results Program (USAID)
BRDP             Badia Research and Development Program (Under the Higher Council for Research & Tech.)
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CBD              Convention on Biological Diversity
CDD              Community Driven Development
CI               Conservation International
CIDA             Canadian International Development Agency
COP              Conference of Parties
DD               Drug Directorate
DOF              Department of Forestry
EFJ              ECOHERB Farms of Jordan
EIIWUE           Education and Information to Improve Irrigation and Water Use Efficiency (USAID)
EJADA            Euro-Jordanian Action for the Development of Enterprises
EMP              Environmental Management Plan
EPP              Enhanced Productivity Program
EU               European Union
EUREPGAP         Euro-Retailer Produce Working Group Good Agricultural Practice
FAO              The Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FMR              Financial Monitoring Report
GALP             Germplasm for Arid Land Program
GCEP             General Corporation for Environment Protection
GEF              Global Environment Facility
GIS              Geographic Information Systems
GOJ              Government of Jordan
GTZ              Deutsche Gesellschaft fuir Techrusche Zusammenarbeit
IAPSO            Inter Agency Procurement Services Office
ICARDA           International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas
IFAD             International Fund for Agricultural Development
EPM              Integrated Pest Management
IPR              Intellectual Property Rights
IUCN             The World Conservation Union
JEPAFV           Jordan Exporters and Producers Association for Fruit and Vegetables
JICA             Japan International Corporation Agency
JSCD             Jordan Society to Combat Desertification
JSEP             Jordan Society for Environmental Protection
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MIH              Medicinal and Herbal (plants)
MHAEP            Medicinal Herbs Agri-Enterprises Project
MNA              Middle East and North Africa
MOA              Ministry of Agriculture
MOE              Ministry of Education



MOENV            Mimstry of Environment
MOH              Ministry of Health
MOIT             Ministry of Industry and Trade
MOP              Ministry of Planning
MOU              Memorandum of Understanding
NCARTT           National Center for Agricultural Research and Technology Transfer
NCC              Nature Conservation Club
NEAP             National Environmental Action Plan
NGO              Non-Governmental Organization
NHF              Noor Al-Hussein Foundation
NSAD             National Strategy for Agricultural Development
OP               Operational Program
PAD              Project Appraisal Document
PCD              Project Concept Document
PCMU             Project Coordinating & Monitoring Unit
PDF              Project Development Funds
pip              Project Implen^entation Plan
PMU              Project Management Umt
PRA              Participatory Rural Appraisal
RCCDP            Rural Community Cluster Development Program
RM               Rangeland Management
RSCN             Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature
SOE              Statement of Expenditures
STAP             Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel
TA               Technical Assistance
TOR              Terms of Reference
UNEP             United Nations Enviromnental Programme
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
USDA             United States Department of Agriculture
WHO              World Health Organization
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:     Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:     Salah Darghouth
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Nicole Glineur






JORDAN
CONSERVATION OF MEDICINAL AND HERBAL PLANTS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    12
3. Benefits and target population                                                   12
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              19
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                   20
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project                          21
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        22
2. Financial                                                                       22
3. Technical                                                                       23
4. Institutional                                                                    23
5. Environmental                                                                   24
6. Social                                                                          26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              30
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  31
2. Critical risks                                                                   32



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   33
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          33
2. Other                                                                            33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        34
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       56
Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis                                                     57
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             63
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  64
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       70
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   75
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 77
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                79
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          81
Annex 11: Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) Review                        83
Annex 12: Project Organigramme                                                         85
Annex 13: PMU Staff Terms of Reference                                                 86
Annex 14: Implementation Agencies Organigramme                                         97
Annex 15: Composition of Steering, Technical and EPP Special Tendering Committees      98
Annex 16: Implemenation Chart                                                          99
Annex 17: Preliminary Financial Analysis of MfH Plants                                102
MAP(S)
IBRD 32241



JORDAN
Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Afnca Region
MNSRE
Date: March 20, 2003                             Team Leader: Nicole Glineur
Sector Manager: M. Salah Darghouth               Sector(s): General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector
Country Director: Joseph P. Saba                 (100%)
Project ID: P069847                              Theme(s): Biodiversity (P), Other environment and
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                     natural resources management (S), Gender (S)
Project Financing Data
f ] Loan    [ ] Credit   [X] Grant    [ ] Guarantee    [] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $5.00
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             5.71          0.00          5.71
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                    0.00          5.00          5.00
FOREIGN SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                 3.50           0.00         3.50
Total:                                                         9.21           5.00        14.21
Borrower/Recipient: HASBEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Responsible agency: THE ENHANCED PRODUCTIVITY PROGRAM (EPP) OF THE MOP
Address: P.O Box 555, Amman, Jordan
Contact Person: Dr. Kamal Khdier
Tel: +962-6-4644466           Fax: +962-6-4649341           Email: kkhdier@mop.gov.jo
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          2004      2005       2006      2007 --    2008
Annual      1.50      1.30       0.80      0.80       0.60
Cumulative     1.50       2.80      3.60       4.40      5.00
Project implementation period: Over 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/16/2003  Expected closing date: 06/16/2008



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the proposed project is to design and test models to improve the
conservation of medicinal and herbal plants and the livelihood of rural cominunities. This would be done
through the management, and sustainable use of medicinal and herbal (M/H) plants for human and
livestock needs in the Mujib Nature Reserve and the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley in Jordan,
while ensunng effective in-situ protection of threatened habitats and ecosystems in these areas.
Project global environmental objective: (see Annex 1)
The global environmental objective is the improved conservation and sustainable use of M/H plants
(several of which are rare and endemic, and thus of global importance) at the national and the local levels
through achieving the following targets over and above the baseline scenarno: (i) establishing a
framework for M/H plant biodiversity conservation and management; (ii) strengthening institutions and
implementing a coordination program; (iii) promoting in-situ conservation and sustainable use of M/H
plants in 2 pilot sites; and (iv) designing and implementing a communication strategy.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators directly linked to the above development objectives are:
o Capacity established to sustainably manage the wild genetic resource base of M/H plants.
O  Threats to MIH species are diminished and key biodiversity areas are identified and protected.
O  A database, gene pool and monitonng system are established and operational.
O Active participation of communities in conservation, management and income generating programs
established in project areas.
O Livelihood of rural communities improved.
o Public awareness, including environmental education of M/H plants improved.
S. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 25228-JO  Date of latest CAS discussion: January 2003
The World Bank Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Jordan emphasizes a development agenda based
on the core themes of: (i) accelerating economuc growth, emphasizing higher level of private investment,
export development and tounsm; (ii) promoting human development; (iii) undertaking public sector
reforms; and (iv) improving water resource management and environmental protection. The proposed
project is fully consistent with the CAS as it would support core theme (iv) through mncro-catchment
initiatives, more effective wastewater use and the protection of endangered species and fragile
ecosystems. It would also contnbute to the other core themes at varying degrees through the promotion
of sustainable use and management of M/H plants and their further processing. Specific project actions
that support the CAS goals are: (i) social and rural development through capacity building; (ii) poverty
reduction through income- generating activities and better management of high demand natural
resources; and (iii) involvement of the private sector.
The project also covers many goals highlighted in the Bank's liddle East and North Afnca (NINA)
Regional Strategy Paper. The target for regional development is to focus on five areas namely: (i) public
sector efficiency, (ni) private sector development; (iii) education; (iv) water; and (v) gender. The project
- 2 -



is aligned with all aspects of the MNA strategy both directly and indirectly. In Jordan, women are
intimately involved in the collection and use of Ml/H plants. One activity in the project is to train women
(and other disadvantaged people) in the conservation and sustainable management of M/H plants, both
in-situ and ex-situ, and to use these plants to develop products that will bring them greater benefit. The
cultivation of MiH plants is a potentially viable income-generation activity for resource-poor people, in
particular, women who undertake about half the gathenng, processing and marketing of M/H plant
maternals. The public sector, in particular the National Center for Agricultural Research and Technology
Transfer (NCARTT) of the Ministry of Agnculture (MOA), in association with the private sector, will
assist the women and other community groups in demonstrating vanous techniques, including water
harvesting and wastewater use, to improve the management and use of M/H plants. Additionally, part of
the project covers formal and informal environmental education, especially relating to M/H plants, the
establishment of a database and gene pool for such plants and access to micro-credit to encourage cottage
industnes based on these sustainable resources.
The proposed project also supports the MNA Rural Development Strategy through: (i) promoting
sustainable use of natural resources; and (ii) attenuating vulnerability of rural populations.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
In 1992, Jordan signed the Convention on Biological Diversity. Thus, the objectives of this project are in
line with the policy of the Govemment of Jordan (GOJ) and are fully consistent with the GEF
Operational Program 1 on "And and Semi-Arid Zone Ecosystems." Whereas the main thrust of the
project is biodiversity conservation, the project has vital components and cross links to land degradation
and desertification. In addition, the project is consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy for
Biodiversity, as well as Article 8 0) of the Convention of Biological Diversity regarding the protection
and conservation of MIH plants, capacity building and protection of indigenous knowledge. Also, the
project's objectives are consistent with the GEF Operational Program 13 "Conservation and Sustainable
Use of Biological Diversity Important to Agnculture."
Global Importance
The flora of Jordan is nch in medicinal and aromatic plants, as well as herbs and spices, mainly the
Umbelliferae, Labiatae and Compositae. Many of these grow in sub-serial or successional communities
in vanous states of ecological development or degradation, and are adapted to and or semi-arld
conditions. M/H plants in Jordan are distributed all over the country from the eastem desert to the
westem highlands and from the semi-arid north to the extremely arid south. The importance of these
plants as a source of preventive and/or curative health value (for both people and livestock) has been
recognized by local people since time immemorial. A few studies related to the identification of
endemic, rare and endangered flora have been carried out in Jordan. An estimated 100 species of
endemic plants comprising about 2.5 percent of the total flora have been identified. A total of 485
species of medicinal plants, which belong to 330 genera and 99 families, are reported from Jordan (Oran
and Al-Eisawi, 1994). Those identified medicinal plants are herbs, shrubs and trees. The endemnic
species include Iris petrana, Cousinia dayi, Plantago maris-mortui, Crucianella transjordanica,
Centaurea procurrens, Scrophularia nabataerum, Tamarix tetragyn, and T. palaestina. A prelinmnary
survey by the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature (RSCN) in the Mujib Nature Reserve
identified the presence of rare species, including Adiantum capillus-veneris, Sternbergia clusiana,
Pistacia atlantica, Caralluma aaronis, Pergularia tomentosa, Equisetum ramosissimum, Crocus
moabiticus, Micromeria sinaica (endermc; also on ITJCN  list), Teucrium  leucocladum, Ajuga
chamaepytis, A. iva, Lavandula pubescens, and Withania somnifera (new to the area). Endemic species
in the Mujib Nature Reserve include Withania obtusifolia, Micromeria sinaica, and Crocus moabiticus.
- 3 -



(See Annex 8: Documents in Project File for a detailed listing in the Mujib Nature Reserve and other rare
and endemic M/iH species in Jordan).
Jordan's flora is considered nch and diverse due to its location at the junction of three continents:
Europe, Asia and Afnca. Al-Eisawi (1985) indicated the presence of four blo-geographical regions and
thirteen vegetation types. Since time immemorial, MIH plants have played important roles, including
providing ecological, genetic, social, cultural, economic, and scientific values (Al-Khalil, 1995;
Al-Eisawi and Takrun, 1989). In addition to enhancing health care and the rural well being for local
communities, many M/H plants contribute to reducing soil and water loss as they cover about 20 percent
of the rangeland and forest areas in Jordan.
The major difficulties in assessing the importance of MIlH plants and developing a strategy for their
conservation and sustainable use are: insufficient knowledge concerning the species that are used, their
detailed distribution, how they are collected or harvested, the species in cultivation (by location), the
quantities involved in collection, consumption, and the quality and quantity of species traded. Trade
statistics are notonously unreliable, as is the identity of maternal traded under such names as oregano;
this covers plants belonging to more than one genus and several species. Some countnes, e.g. Spain,
have produced acceptable assessments of the uses and trade in medicinal and aromatic plants, while
important surveys for other Mediterranean countnes have been prepared under the auspices of the
MEDUSA' organization as part of data gathenng regarding the potential for sustainable use of wild
species of the region. However, for most parts of the Mediterranean, detailed information is lacking and
an overall survey for the region would be a significant contnbution towards developing a strategy for this
important group of plants. One aim of the project is to establish a database for all M/H plants and to
undertake an oral survey of the past and present uses, including the use for, and by, domesticated
animals.
The M/H plant sector is undergoing major changes. The domestic demand for M/H plants and their
extracts is increasing and is satisfied through over-harvesting of wild plants, a little cultivation, or by
substitutable import crops These amount to about US$6 mrllion per year, with exports of about US$0.4
mnllion annually. The project intends to promote the sustainable use of M/H plants through managing the
wild plants and by increasing, where possible, the ex-situ cultivation of the high-demand species.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In June 1998, the General Corporation for Environment Protection (GCEP-transformed into the Ministry
of Environment since January 2003), in collaboration with the United Nations Environmental Programme
(UNEP) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), prepared the Jordan Country
Biodiversity Study. One of the long-term objectives of this study is to ensure the protection and
conservation of the broadest possible range of global biodiversity and its rational use. The proposed
project is consistent with the recommendation of this study to carry out extensive work to protect
MEDUSA is an acronym for the 'Identification, Conservation and Use of Wild Plants in the Mediterranean
Region'. It was formerly established in June 1996 by CIHEAM (Centre International des Hautes Etudes
Agronomiques Mdditerran6ennes) and its constituent organ MAICh (Mediterranean Agronomic Institute of
Chama). The Network is financially supported partly by the Directorate General I of the E. U and partly by
CIHEAM
-4-



Jordan's nch diversity of M/H plants. The commercialization of M/H plants is also recognized as a key
component of GOJ's poverty alleviation and rural development objectives. The project is also consistent
with the 1996 National Environmental Action Plan's (NEAP) recommendation to improve measures to
combat Jordan's loss of its natural hentage embodied in M/H plants.
Jordan's Environmental Law No. 12, Article No. 21, of 1995 states that "Regulations shall determune the
specifications and conditions that must be found in any natural reserve for wild and manne life or
national parks, and the preservation and environmental protection thereof'. The RSCN is mandated to
establish and manage wildlife reserves in Jordan under the supervision of the Ministry of Environment
(MOENV). The MOA's 1996 Charter recognizes the importance of conservation and sustainable use of
MiH plants to meet agricultural diversification objectives and enhance the efficiency of land and water
use. In December 2002, GOJ endorsed the National Strategy for Agncultural Development (NSAD) for
the decade ending in 2010. The strategy highlights the importance of conserving and expanding M/H
plants in the environmental and production systems in Jordan and has identified M/H plants as one of the
six pnority areas under the rainfed agnculture sector that should be implemented to achieve the
strategy's goals and objectives. Within MOA, the NCARTT is mandated to conserve M/H plant genetic
resources, identify cultivation practices, and, where appropnate, seek the cropping of M/H species with
commercial value.
Despite the fact that conservation of M/H plants is a pnonty in the NEAP cf 1996, the Jordan Country
Biodiversity Study of 1998, and the NSAD of 2002, no work has been undertaken in this field except for
those conducted during the implementation of the GEF PDF-Block B Grant.
The GEF PDF-Block B Grant studies included obtaining preliinnary baseline data to: (i) establish an
M/H plant inventory; (ii) estimate the demand and supply of M/H plants used for human and livestock
health care and other needs; (ii) compile a database of Ml/H plants; and (iv) list M/H species suitable for
possible ex-situ cultivation to relieve in-situ pressure. Information from these studies was instrumental in
formulating the sector issues and designing some of the project components. As such, the following
sector issues were identified as priorities to be addressed: (i) lack of institutional and technical capacity;
(ii) lack of understanding and addressing of the causes of biodiversity loss and bamers to its sustainable
use; (iii) lack of demand responsive applied research; and (iv) lack of product and market development
approaches.
There is a need to enhance collaboration and cooperation among MOENV, MOA, Ministry of Health
(MOH), RSCN, other ministnes and agencies, the private sector, Non-Govemmental Organizations
(NGOs), and users regarding the long-term conservation, management and sustainable use of M/H plants
in a manner that would fulfill the objectives identified above. Hence, there will be strong emphasis in the
project on capacity building.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project will be the first to address the conservation of M/H plants and give pnonty to the
field of M/H plants, thereby addressing the 1996 NEAP, the Jordan Country Blodiversity Study of 1998
and the NSAD of 2002. Furthermore, it will initiate and strengthen the institutional and technical
capacity of key partners in this area including: the Enchanced Productivity Program (EPP)/MOP,
MOA/NCARTT, RSCN, the pnvate sector and the subsistence farming community, with a special focus
on increasing community participation and empowering women.
- 5-



The over-harvesting and over-grazing of M/H plants in their natural habitats, combined with the
increasing demand for such plants, have led to depletion of natural stocks in the wild. The project will
address the root causes of biodiversity loss and barrers to sustainable use. The project will provide
essential links between the in-situ conservation activities and the propagation of M/H plants ex-situ to
relieve in-situ over-harvesting and over-grazing pressures, hence ensuring conservation in-situ of global
species. The project will enhance GOJ strategy by: (i) promoting sustainable management systems in
in-situ pilot sites (Section C 1, Component 2, which addresses collection practices, grazing agreements,
etc.); and (n) identifying cultivation practices for high-demand M/H plants used for human and livestock
health care and other needs.
The project also responds to the feedback obtained throughout preparation from all stakeholders (from
subsistence farmers to the pnvate sector), i.e. that NCARTT should move away from supply-dnven
research towards demand- responsive applied research on the ground. During project preparation,
NCARTT initiated this instrumental strategic shift through listening and responding to the demands of all
stakeholders and for the first time involving the pnvate sector. This strategic shift should fully
materialize through the implementation of the concrete on-the-ground activities with subsistence farmers,
NGOs and the private sector for Component 2.
A non-GEF component focusing on sound product and market development will contnbute to the
sustainability of the project by providing market outlets for rural communities involved in M/H plant
cultivation. To this end, the project will facilitate a process of close collaboration between relevant
institutions and organizations such as MOA, the vetennary department and MOH to enhance the
conservation, management and sustainable use of affordable phytomedicines, as well as fostering pnvate
sector investment in this area.
In summary, the strategic choices initiated by this project are: strengthening the institutional and
technical capacity of key partners, including, for the first time, partnenng with the pnvate sector;
addressing the root causes of biodiversity loss and barriers to sustainable use; moving away from supply
dnven research towards demand responsive applied research on the ground; and fostering product and
market developments, through participatory approaches involving all stakeholders. The adoption of these
strategic choices should result in best practices to protect and manage M/H plants, which could be
replicated to other sites in Jordan and elsewhere in the NNA.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed descnption and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project components will compnse of activities at the national level and at the site-specific
level. GEF will fund the incremental costs of the first three components. MOP is funding Component 4
for 2003 and 2004 in the amount of US$1.4 million. The activities funded by MOP under Component 4
should start by March 2003. MOP has commtted to securing funding for the total amount of US$3.5
mullion over the life of the project.  Secunng  remaining funding of US$2.1 million for the
implementation of this component will be part of the PMU's activities, with support from the EPP/MOP
and the Bank.
-6-



Indicative        Bank     % of     GEF     % of
Component                           Costs   % of   financing,  Bank  financing  GEF
(USSM)   Total  (US$M)- financing. (US$M) financing
1 Institutional Strengthening               2.54     17 4   0.00      0.0     1.95   36 4
2. Pilot-Sites Conservation                 6.92     47.5   0.00      0.0     2.71    50.7
3. Public Awareness and Education           1.25      8 6   0.00      0.0     0 34     6 4
4. Income Generation                        3 50     24 0   0 00       0 0    0 00     0.0
5. PDF-B                                    0.35      2 4   0.00      0.0     0.35     6.5
Total Project Costs  14 56   100.0   0.00      0.0    5.35   100.0
Total Financing Required  14.56  100.0    0 00      0.0    5.35   100.0
Component 1. Institutional Strengthening (US$2.54 million)
This component focuses on strengthening the institutional and technical capacity of key players. Six
sub-components are included as follows:
*  Developing and providing an organizational mechanism for project implementation. A Project
Management Unit (PMU) will be established to implement the project Apart from management,
administration, finance and procurement, the PMU will be charged with monitonng and evaluating
(M&E) the vanous components and sub-components, and developing training and public awareness
programs.
*  Developing crucial inter-sector links (MOA, MOE, Ministry of Industry and Trade (MOIT), MOH,
MOENV, NGOs, pharmaceutical industry, consumers, producers) and regulatory instruments. The
institutional arrangements will be agreed among the concerned nmnistries (MOA, MOH, MOP,
MOENV), the government bodies (Govemorates), and representatives of producers, consumers and
private industry. These links will be reflected in the Steering and Technical Comimttees, which will
weigh in on topics like strengthening national policy and regulatory capacity. In addition, the
Steering Commuttee will ensure the smooth running of the project, and thereby support the
conservation of M/H plants and their sustainable expansion and use.
*  Developing intellectual property rights (IPR) policy and guidelines for indigenous knowledge and
use of M/H plants for medical and other purposes by humans and livestock. A committee will
formulate the policy and guidelines, and will be camed out in collaboration with the Achievement of
Market Friendly Initiatives and Results Program (AMIR), funded by USAID.  Part of the
comnuttee's task will be to record the oral history of the past and present use of MIH plants.
*  Establishing health and safety standards for MIH plants and products. In line with MOENV's
Biodiversity Strategy, the establishment of standards and international certification practices will be
instrumental to in-situ protection as they would result in the disqualification of harvested M/H plants
in-situ due to their high dust content, hence directly increase their protection. MOlT's Bureau of
Standards will be involved in this effort to formulate standards for M/H plants and their products,
work out testing methodologies with the pharmaceutical and food industnes, agree on safe dosages
and award seals of approval for products complying with the standards, etc. In addition, international
certification of organically grown MIH plants will be adopted and legally endorsed and national
certification procedures will be based on these practices. Independent certification personnel will be
trained and registered and farms will have to comply with procedures in order for their crops to
- 7 -



qualify as sites of organically grown products. The Jordan Exporters and Producers Association for
Fruit and Vegetables (JEPAFV) may also play a role in the certification of M/Hl plants for export
under Euro-Retailer Produce Working Group Good Agricultural Practices (EUREPGAP) standards.
This will also be carried out in close collaboration with AMI1R.
O  Establishing a national M/H plants database/Geographin Information Systems (GIS) and plant gene
bank that will provide an inventory of Jordan's M/H plant species, distnbution, status (common -
rare) and an herbanum collection. The gene bank will be linked to the global field crop gene bank
and together will act as a pool of rare and endangered species and form the basis for propagating
such species as well as a source for expanding the commercial production of M/H plants.
O  Capacity building through designing and implementing a training program. The training program
will include: short-term on site instruction courses for counterpart and project staff; short-term
workshops, courses, study tours, staff exchange, information sharing, educational visits both in and
outside Jordan; training for local communities on topics including Integrated Pest Management
(IPM); graduate-applied research grants for on-the-ground transfer of knowledge. Further design and
implementation of the training program will be coordinated by the PMU and delivered through all the
components.
Component 2. Pilot-Sites Conservation (US$6.92 million)
As part of the PDF-B preparation process, studies and baseline surveys were undertaken relating to M/l
plants, namely: an inventory, cultivation practices, a database, a socio-economic survey and an
institutional capacity assessment. These studies and survey results were used in formulating the project
and are available as working papers (Annex 8). During implementation, the baseline surveys will act as
reference points when judging the project's progress. Similar surveys will be undertaken as part of the
M&E process as a main PMU function. The two conservation sub-components, covenng (i) the in-situ
conservation and use of M/H plants; and (ii) the ex-situ pilot cultivation of selected M/H plants to relieve
in-situ pressure, were formulated based on the results from the above surveys and are summarized below.
In-situ conservation and sustainable use of M/lHI plants. During the survey of M/H plants, ten areas
were highlighted as potential conservation sites. Initially, it was felt that the project could only handle
two areas, based on the institutional capability and available funds (see Section D. 1). The two pilot
areas for in-situ conservation are Mujib Nature Reserve adjacent to the Dead Sea, and the Central Upper
Slopes of the Rift Valley covenng the Madaba area. These areas cover important sites of M/H plants.
Other areas can be incorporated into M/H plants conservation in later periods, based on the expenences
gained from these pilot initiatives.
O  The Muiib Nature Reserve is a 215 sq. km reserve adjacent to the Dead Sea in the central-west region
of Jordan. While the reserve is Department of Forestry (DOF) land, DOF has delegated its
management to the RSCN. The rainfall in this reserve ranges from 250 to 350 mm/year and is a
water-stressed and eroded area. Four bio-geographical regions can be found in the Mujib Nature
Reserve, namely, Irano-Turranian, Sudanian, Transitional Mediterranean, and the Mujib River. Of
the thirteen vegetation types existing in Jordan, four are present in the Reserve containing 396
identified flora and fauna species. These vegetation types are: non-forest Mediterranean Steppe,
Steppe, Wadi Systems, and semn-tropical.  A vegetation survey, including M/H plants, was
undertaken by RSCN. Communities inside and outside the Reserve graze sheep and goats. Grazing
areas and grazing pattems within the Reserve were agreed upon by the shepherds and RSCN, and
except dunng drought have been followed. This working relationship will serve as a basis for the
- 8 -



identification and conservation of M/H plants for gathenng information from shepherds and their
farmlles as to the traditional uses of these plants. Such information will be used to formulate
management plans for the sustainable use of these resources. Because of the high water stress levels
and the incidence of severe erosion, the management plans will incorporate water conservation
measures such as micro-catchment and erosion control initiatives, including the planting of local
M/H shrubs and trees. Individual areas will be used for demonstration purposes as well.
The Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley. The NCARTT began prelimunary work in the field of
M/H plants two years ago in the Madaba area. Field trials for thyme, cumin, chamomile and other
high-demand medicinal, spice and essential oil species were planted with the objective of identifying
sustainable cultivation practices under rainfed conditions. Such areas and information will be used
as part of the ex-situ sub component. Within this Rift Valley area, some in-situ "hotspot" sites for
the conservation and management of MiH plants have been identified and others will be investigated.
The annual rainfall ranges from 300 to 500 mm and, therefore, the area contains different classes of
flora and fauna compared to the Mujib Nature Reserve. Managing M/H plants in this area may be
somewhat different than in the Mujib Nature Reserve because of the greater biomass production and
thus, a larger carrying capacity for livestock. Again, demonstration plots will be established to show
improved management techniques for local farmers and communities in similar agro-ecological
zones.
Site community management plans will be developed and implemented to enhance the sustainable use of
M/H plants in the above 2 pilot in-situ areas. These plans include: (i) grazing agreements with the local
community; (ii) water-catchment and harvesting measures; (ini) enrichment planting; (iv) contour
planting with shrubs to reduce erosion and planting at nght angles to the prevailing wind with M/l
shrubs and trees (including nitrogen fixing perennials) to improve the micro-climate; (v) soil fertility and
provision of nutritious feed for the animals; and (vi) prepanng guidelines for sustainable harvesting. In
addition, income-generating activities will be promoted based on local resources, and mitigation
measures to relieve population pressures in the project sites will be pursued. As the two sites will be
implemented by RSCN and NCARTT, there should be healthy competition. However, there should also
be cooperation and a constant flow of information and ideas between the entities, encouraged as
necessary by the PMU.
Part of the task for each agency will include: (i) preparation and implementation of site conservation
management plans, including development and implementation of appropriate management tools for
sustainable use of M/H plants and their products, where warranted; (ii) piloting of farmer-based
cultivation trials for a selected number of threatened and indigenous medicinal species in home gardens,
and as boundary and buffer zones in the Reserve; and (iii) M&E. All these sites will have demonstration
components so that lessons learned can be passed on to other farmers in the area and in similar
agro-climatic zones. Also, best practices could be transferred to some or all of the other eight sites
identified for conservation in the preliminary survey.
Ex-situ cultivation trials. As mentioned above, trials in the in-situ areas could be used for ex-situ
production of MiH plants to relieve in-situ pressure. There will be two types of trials under this
sub-component: ex-situ farming demonstrations, and pilot-prototype farm demonstrations.
Ex-situ farming demonstrations. Based on the results of the Socio-Economic Survey undertaken dunng
the PDF-B phase, villagers/farmers will have been identified for on-farm pilot crop propagation and
cultivation trials of M/H plants to remove pressure on wild populations, including trials of threatened,
rare and high demand M/H plants used for human and livestock health care, culinary purposes as well as
-9-



species used by the cosmetic industry.
As stated above, NCARTT has started trials under rainfed conditions with thyme, cumin, black cumin,
chamomile and other M/H plants at their research center at Madaba. Their objective is to demonstrate
cost-effective and profitable cultivation methods for vanous high-demand M/H species that can be
reproduced by farmers at minimal cost and, at the same time, give added income, provide increased crop
diversification and make better use of available moisture. At present, the farmers provide some land as
demonstration plots, but NCARTT plants, cultivates and harvests the vanous species and takes a
percentage of the harvest. However, once the techniques have been thoroughly tested, the farmers should
be ready to undertake all the activities themselves. In order to promote MMH plants, it is envisaged that
nurseries will be established, first by the project but later as pnvate nursenes. Training will be given on
project nurseries in the production of MiH seedlings and cuttings.
Other areas will be identified throughout the country and a plan will be drawn up to extend ex-situ
planting over the life of the project. All activities in the ex-situ initiatives will serve as demonstration.
Thus, farmers from all over Jordan and beyond are expected to visit the sites to observe and learn new
techniques. Information will be provided to all interested parties including mass-media initiatives. This
will be part of Component 3: Public Awareness and Education.
Pilot-Prototype Farm Demonstrations at ECOHERB Farms of Jordan (EFJ). The transfer of NCARTT's
knowledge base as further developed by EFJ, based on its own knowledge bank and continuous research
at its prototype farm, will be instrumental in providing incentives to M/H plants farmers. The project
will support demonstrations in this pilot prototype farm in implementing the following strategy to
develop the ex-situ cultivation tnals in Jordan:
o  The screening process for the M/H plants to be cultivated in the ex-situ farms will be developed.
O  In order to encourage the adoption of sound environmental practices, Integrated Pest Management
(IPM) and nitrogen fixing plants will be promoted and organic farming will be encouraged.
Standards will be used for the dosage and punty of M/H plants and these will comply with
international norms. Potential ex-situ farms will be identified for organic practices and, if they meet
all the criteria, will be certified as orgaTic farms. These farms will serve as prototypes for future
expansion of organic farmng practices for M/H plants. EFJ will also lobby and assist in developing
quality benchmarks for various indigenous M/ll plants. The objective will be to equate Jordanian
ex-situ M/H plants with the connotation of high quality and specific standards, thereby enhancing the
protection of in-situ plants.
O  In order to contribute to the sustainability of the protection of in-situ plants by limnting harvesting
and processing to ex-situ sites, organic cultivation practices will be introduced for graduation into
organic cultivation practices within the time required for certified conversion and, subsequently, a
label will be developed for organic quality products for Jordan.
O  A prototype contract-farming model to standardize the relationship between the growers and EFJ will
be developed. This will contnbute to propagating threatened M/l plants outside the in-situ areas.
O  Stakeholders in the MIH plants sector will be trained in environmentally-fnendly techniques and
procedures in order to conform with European cultivation and processing standards.
O  The level of progress of the ex-situ cultivation will be monitored and evaluated. Corrective measures
will be taken as necessary.
- 10-



Component 3. Public Awareness and Education (US$1.25 million)
This component would include the development of public education (including school and college
cumcula) and mass awareness campaigns on the relevance of conserving and managing Jordan's M/H
plants and their importance in the country's biodiversity. It will be camed out in cooperation with
NGOs, schools, universities, and the private sector. It consists of two sub-components.
Environmental Education. Consultants hired through the project will work closely with the MOE to
expand environmental education to include information about MiH plants and their importance in Jordan.
Schools will be encouraged to establish or expand their nurseries and raise M/HI plants for the children to
plant at school or take home to their gardens. At the tertiary level, technical colleges and universities
will be lobbied to introduce or expand courses in M/H plants and their products. M Sc. and Ph.D.
students will conduct applied research with farmers and/or the pnvate sector, in topics pertaining to
vanous aspects of M/H plant establishment, tending, harvesting and product manufacture. At the
informal level, environmental education will be provided to relevant communities.
Public Awareness. Public awareness covers a gamut of activities including: distributing information to
the stakeholders through the project website, leaflets, newsletters, reports, etc.; providing the mass
media, (e.g., radio and TV stations) with information and videos about the project; publishing articles in
scientific journals; exchanging information with farmers, communities, government and donors, and
delivering workshops and training courses to the beneficianes. In this sub-component, emphasis will be
placed on the needs of disadvantaged groups, women in particular. A detailed training program and a list
of public awareness initiatives will be outlined pnor to project implementation.
Component 4. Income Generation Activities: M/H Quality Enhancement, Product Development
(US$3.5 million)
One of the best ways to conserve plants,is to ensure that they have actual or potential economic value
(see Annex 17). Thus, farmers will look after them in the wild, and be encouraged to manage them
sustainably and grow them ex-situ as a cash crop. The purpose of this component is to add value to M/H
plants for local use and exports by producing organically-grown and certified plants, ensuring proper
handling and grading of M/H plants and using the correct processing procedures to ensure quality
products. This will be backed up by providing market intelligence to the farmers and producers and
searching for new markets and products based on MIH plants. In order to ensure that the disadvantaged,
including women, can play an active role in the M/H plant industry from growing to the finished product
availability and access to micro-credit schemes will be essential.
Three sub-components will be included as follows:
* Standardization of M/H Plants Raw Materials and ProcessLng. This covers a whole range of
activities from cleaning the raw matenal to quality control. Product preparation includes cleaning,
grading, labeling and compliance with standards.  Processing covers extraction, punfication,
chemucal analysis and quality control. For all these activities, standards have to be set, people
trained, equipment from cleaning to chemical analysis has to be in place and there has to be good
market intelligence for the kind and quality of products required. The pharmaceutical, cosmetics and
food processing industnes will be partners in this sub-component and will be encouraged to research
the making of new and/or improved products.



o  Product Promotion. Income generation through product promotion is a vital ingredient for the
development of the MiH plant sector. At present it is estimated that the annual imports of M/H plant
products is approximately US$6 mnllion, whereas exports are under US$0.4 million. Many of the
M/Hi plant products that are imported could be produced from indigenous M/H plants. Also, Jordan
has some unique M/ll plants, but these are usually exported in the unprocessed state, with little value
added.  Therefore, this sub-component includes providing information on packaging, pncing,
processing, marketing opportunities, market niches and general market intelligence for MiH plants
and products. Similarly, as in sub-component 4.1, the pharmaceutical, cosmetics and food processing
industnes will be partners in this sub-component. Training will be given in all aspects of promoting
and trading goods, including contract and product liability, etc.
O  Facilitating Access to Microcredit.  Obtaining credit for income-generating activities is vital,
especially for the disadvantaged who have little, if any, collateral as loan security. Cooperative
arrangements with on-going initiatives that provide microcredit to the poor, including the Enhanced
Productivity Program  of the Socio-Economrc Development Programme, King Abdullah II
Foundation, and USAID's Jordanian-US Business Partnerships, will be explored.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
A key aim of the project will be to promote capacity building through the PMU and through the
implementing agencies managing the pilot sites for the sustainable conservation and management of MiH
plants. This will include strong collaboration between the relevant ministrnes (Agriculture, Health,
Planning, Education, Environment, Industry and Trade) and government bodies (Governorates),
universities, the pnvate sector, NGOs and donors. The Steenng and Technical Commrttees (Annex 15)
should cement this collaboration. Stakeholders will contribute to the conservation, management and
sustainable use of M/H plants. A process to validate traditional phytomedicines will be established,
building on WHO's traditional medicinal evaluation guidelines.
3. Benefits and target population:
At the global level, benefits will be obtained through: (i) the protection of endangered species, (ii) the
sustainable use of M/H plants and natural habitats, (iii) improved agro-pastoral practices, (iv) better
water management and reduced erosion, (v) enhanced capacity building of government agencies, research
institutes and communities; and (vi) income generation for disadvantaged communities. At the regional
level, the project would promote an inter-exchange of ideas and thus build capacity in dealing with the
protection of M/H plants. Also, there would be a gene pool and a source of material to expand the
production of endangered, rare or popular M/H species in Jordan and the region.
The primary beneficiarnes would be the rural communities in and around the different project sites. While
the project sites are not areas of high population density, they are inhabited by the poorest segment of the
population. For example in the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley, it is estimated that about 20
communities of 600 famrlies would benefit from the in-situ activities in that area, e.g., from on-farm
improvements, clear guidelines for the management of MiH plants, improved marketing channels and
alternative sources of income from M/Hl plants and other natural resources, such as honey production.
This would include farmers, with a focus on women, as important producers of M/H plants in local
communities. The health of communities and livestock will improve through the dissemination of
reliable information on safety, efficacy and dosage levels of selected medicinal formulations. Global
biodiversity would be preserved through the sustainable use of natural resources, and rural communities
will benefit from enhanced environmental, soil and water management.
- 12 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation will be coordinated by a small PMU housed within the EPP of the MOP. The
PMU will be guided by a Steenng Committee, to be chaired by the Secretary General of the MOP. A
Technical Committee, chaired by the Project Manager whose mandate will be to provide technical
guidance in implementation and M&E activities The composition of these committees is detailed below.
The PMU will coordinate the activities of all implementing agencies: RSCN, NCARTT and
NCARTT/EFJ as reflected in Annexes 12, 14, and 16. In addition, the project will link and coordinate
with several key institutions to address project objectives: e.g., MOP, MOA, MOENV, MOH, MOE,
MOIT, NGOs and the private sector. A five-year penod is envisaged for the implementation of this GEF
project. The project's management organigramme is presented as Annex 12.
EPP meets the criteria necessary for optimal project implementation and sustainability and is well
positioned to provide GOJ counterpart funding along with MOA and NCARTT, can attract external
funding for the implementation of the fourth component and has-the environment to attract high-caliber
staff. The Government's commitment to EPP, the flexibility and the accountability of EPP are highly
valuable essentials for project implementation. For the project to be successful, it is crucial that the
PMU is able to operate in a flexible and transparent manner, as well as to attract competitively recruited
emunent staff with project management experience and TORs acceptable to the Bank.
Dunng the early stages of project implementation, the performance of the PMU within EPP will be
closely monitored as it would be the first expenence of EPP to channel GEF/Bank funds with its
multifaceted provisions. EPP will establish the PMU and process essential procurement contracts prior
to project effectiveness. MOP/EPP's contnbutions include: (i) input from staff counterparts: i.e., EPP's
Project Coordinator and Contracting Officer as well as from other staff, such as M&E and the Public
Affairs officers, as warranted; and (n) office space, equipment and communication tools (e-mail, direct
phone and fax lines and desk computers) and two vehicles. The EPP Project Coordinator will be directly
responsible for the supervision of the project for GOJ.
Cofinancing is as follows: Total EPP contribution to the PMU is US$404,600 and this amount is
included in MOP/EPP's 2003 budget. NCARTT counterpart funding of US$2 million consists of the
secondment of 2 NCARTT full-time staff to the lead M/H plants function, and input from the staff of 5
research stations, one vehicle and portable computer for the M/ll plants lead specialist, operational costs,
land rental, and agncultural equipment. RSCN counterpart funding of US$1.3 million includes allocation
of: top management and operational staff time, vehicles, site accommodations and operating costs.
GOJ's contribution to Mujib Nature Reserve land rental is US$1 21 million. ECOHERB Farms of
Jordan's counterpart funding includes management time, knowledge transfer, consultation services,
offices, infrastructure, facilities and land amounting to US$790,000.
Project Management
The PMU will:
*  prepare annual work plans and budgets;
*  supervise implementation of project components;
*  ensure liaison, communication, collaboration, and joint problem-solving  between the
implementing entities and other stakeholders;
*  promote the active participation and contribution of the local population, the private sector and
NGOs;
- 13-



o  procure services and equipment in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines;
o  account for project expenditures and present accounts for annual audit; and
o  provide quarterly and annual progress reports in a format acceptable to the Bank.
The PMU will coordinate the project activities of three implementation entities:
o  NCARTT which will implement the MfH plants database and gene bank, the Central Upper
Slopes of the Rift Valley in-situ sub-component and part of the ex-situ sub-component;
o  RSCN which will implement the Mujib Nature Reserve in-situ component,
o  EFJ which will implement the pilot farm of the ex-situ component with technical assistance (TA)
from NCARTT.
The PMU will have a crucial coordinating role in linking the key players. NCARTT will have a
prominent role as the technical service provider. The PMU will be staffed with a Project Manager, a lead
local specialist in M/H plants; an M&E and Training Specialist; a Financial Management/Procurement
Specialist (3 years); one Administrative Assistant and one Driver. Since this is a new area for Jordan, the
positions of the project manager and the MfH specialist will be coupled with an international expert
position for the first three years in order to transfer knowledge and technology. TORs for these positions
are shown in Annex 13. Other local and international experts will be hired as consultants with expertise
in fields such as M/H conservation techniques, M&E, standardization and certification, updating of
beneficiary and scientific surveys, etc. Each PMU position will have EPP or NCARTT staff as
counterparts. All staff will be recruited competitively. Small implementation units will be established at
both pilot conservation areas and will be under the supervision of the PMU. Two organizations will
manage these pilot sites, namely RSCN at Mujib Nature Reserve and NCARTT in the Central Upper
Slopes of the Rift Valley. The PMU will be supervise all the component and sub-component activities
outlined in Section C above.
Financial Management
The project will be implemented by a PMU to be housed in the EPP of the MOP. The PMU will be
responsible for financial management of the project within the overall payment authonty of the Finance
Department of MOP. The PMU will be responsible for maintaining all financial and accounting records,
prepanng accounting entries, reviewing, posting and preparng monthly bank reconciliations, as well as
recording all disbursements from GEF funds. It will also prepare quarterly project Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMRs) and the annual project financial statements and arrange for their auditing by a qualified
auditor acceptable to the Bank. The PMU will be staffed with a qualified financial management
specialist (FMS), who will be selected pnor to Board presentation, to undertake these activities according
to TORs acceptable to the Bank. EPP has appointed a qualified consultant to prepare a financial
management manual and design a computerized accounting system in order to have an adequate financial
management system acceptable to the Bank and, in operation, by September 30, 2003. The financial
management manual will describe, inter alia, the project accounting policies and procedures, internal
control procedures, key staff job descnptions, financial arrangements with other project stakeholders,
disbursement from the Special Account, internal and external reporting and auditing arrangements.
FMRs will be prepared for the project on a quarterly basis within 45 days of the end of each quarter and
will include: (i) project progress summary; (ii) sources and uses of funds; (iii) costs planned and incurred
during the quarter and to date per project component, together with explanations for major vanances; and
(iv) procurement summanes for all contracts, including those below the pnor review threshold.
- 14-



Auditing
The PMIU will appotnt an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, who will undertake an annual
audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. The auditor will give an opinion on: (i) the
project financial statements (project balance sheet, Special Account statement, and cash flow); (n) the
statements of expense; and (mi) the Special Account. The audited financial statements, together with the
auditor's opinion, will be sent to the Bank within six months of financial year end.
Disbursement
To facilitate project implementation and disbursement against eligible expenditures, assurances would be
sought that a Special Account would be established in the Central Bank of Jordan, which would be
operated under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (see Annex 6). The Special Account would
have an authonzed allocation of US$500,000 and will be penodically replenished on the basis of
withdrawal applications supported by appropnrate documentation.
A well-designed M&E system is cntical to ensure the project's timely and successful implementation and
to enhance its impact through a systematic analysis of lessons learned and their effective dissemination.
The project's M&E will be the responsibility of the PMU. Monitonng will be based on the five baseline
surveys already undertaken during the PDF-B phase. Further baseline surveys may be required in the
Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley The M&E will be carried out annually by the PMU by
conducting beneficiary surveys. In addition, scientific surveys should be undertaken every two years to
monitor M/H plants and the farming systems, etc , and evaluate changes. In addition, under the umbrella
of the Steenng Comnmttee, the EPP M&E Unit will carry out an independent assessment every six
months during the first year of the project.
The PMU will design a simple Management Information System for M&E, reporting formats for each
component and sub-component, including targeted annual performance objectives and monitonng
indicators using Annex I as the basis. Quarterly reports are required covering the implementation
progress, the use of funds and the project's impact. These reports will be consolidated by the PMNU into
annual progress reports to be submrtted through the MOP to the Bank within two months of the end of
the fourth quarterly report due on December 31.  These progress reports will also include an
implementation plan and a work program for the following year. The format of the reports will be agreed
with the Bank. A mid-term review will be caried out on December 31, 2005 to assess overall progress.
Lessons learned, with recommendations for improvements, if any, would be used to restructure the
project, if necessary.
Composition of the Steering and Technical Committees (Annex 15)
The PMU will be guided by a Steenng Commnttee to be chaired by the Secretary General of the MOP
and will consist of four other voting permanent members (the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Planning, the Director of NCARTT, the Director of RSCN, the Chairman of EFJ and the Project
Manager). In addition, the Commnttee will include the MOH, MOE, MOENV, MOA, the Director of the
MOP's Department of Environment, Water and Tourism, the Director of the Department of Standards and
Measurement of the MOIT, the EPP Acting Director and Project Coordinator, the Director of NCARTT,
the JEPAFV, representatives from the farming community, and a representative of local communities.
The project Steenng Committee has the mandate to supervise and direct the implementation of the
project activities (including the prompt resolution of bottlenecks) and will approve annual work programs
and budgets.
-15 -



A Technical Comnmttee, chaired by the Project Manager, will be composed of the heads of relevant
project components or sub-components, the PMU staff, representatives of academia (Universities of
Jordan and Science and Technology), the pnvate sector, NGOs (Jordan River Foundation, the Hashemnte
Fund, the Noor Al Hussein Foundation and RSCN), an architect, and representatives of the European
Union (EU), Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ), and USAID. It will have the
mandate to provide technical guidance in implementation, and M&E activities.
Role of MOA
The MOA is the head of NCARTT. As mentioned above, NCARTT will be the leading technical service
provider. MOA will have a prominent role in the project in four areas as detailed below and reflected in
Annexes 12, 14, 16, and 17: (i) the Director of NCARTT is a core member of the Steering Committee
and the Secretary General is a committee member; (ii) NCARTT is seconding staff to the project (iii)
NCARTT will manage the in-situ Rift Valley sites; (iv) NCARTT will provide technical support for the
ex-situ component; (v) the national M/H plants database and plant gene bank will be managed by, and
located in NCARTT; and (vi) MOA will implement some activities under Component 4 as part of the
NSAD. In addition, NCARTT is providing counterpart funding for 2 counterpart positions with the
PMU, input from staff of 5 research stations, land, and equipment.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
At present, there has been little or no concerted effort or programs to conserve M/H plants in Jordan.
The project preparation team considered the following options: (i) intensifying the proposed conservation
strategy by including more pilot protection areas and broadening the scope of the project; (n) using
international agencies as executing agencies of the project; (iii) partnenng with Rum Agricultural
Company; and (iv) adding additional components and sub-components. These alternatives were rejected
for the following reasons:
o  Number of Pilot Areas. Originally, ten sites were proposed as pilot areas. However, given: (i) the
lack of capacity and resources; (ii) the complexity of initially managing a large number of sites; and
(iii) the fact that it is the first time that a full-fledged project will address the pnonty issue of MIH
plants conservation, it was concluded that such an ambitious program has little chance of succeeding.
It was agreed that the project needs to focus on a lirmted number of sites with a large level of
expressed community interest and a vanety of problems in order to provide a broad range of lessons
and achievements for future replication. Selection cntena for the sites included: (i) incidence of
globally significant medicinal plant species; and (ui) occurrence of representative agro-climate
zones; potential of threatened species to respond to conservation measures; and presence of
communities with their income base mainly from pastoral agriculture. It is expected that the pilot
activities to be carned out at the selected sites will provide "learming by doing" results, which will
allow the transfer of positive management activities to other sites in the future and thereby enhance
the project's sustainability. At the Project Concept Document (PCD) stage, three pilot sites were
selected. Feedback on simplifying design for this first operation led to a reduction of the number of
pilot sites to two for the first phase of the project (Mujib Nature Reserve and the Central Upper
Slopes of the Rift Valley).
O  Using International Agencies as Executing Agencies for the Project. Three alternatives with
different international agencies were identified under the PDF-B Institutional Assessment. These
- 16 -



alternatives are descnbed in the PCD. However, GOJ and Bank practices dictate that existing
country institutions should be chosen in order to build-up local capacity and to ensure the continuity
of the initiative after the project ends Therefore, these three alternatives were rejected In addition.
the suggested options of using RSCN and the DOF/MOA as executive agencies were explored.
These options were also rejected because RSCN's expenence in the production of M/H plants has
only been acquired on a very small scale and DOF is already over committed. Thus, RSCN is an
implementing agency of the project but not an executing agency.
Another option explored was having a PMU with strong technical assistance The PMU option was
selected in order to maximize organizational, managerial efficiency, transfer knowledge to promote
sustainability, prevent institutional overlapping, and optimize participation of crucial actors in the
area of M/H plant conservation and management. The housing of the PMU was explored with many
entities including the Jordan River Foundation, JEPAFV, and EPP. GOJ considered that EPP was
the best positioned to allow the flexibility needed by the PMIU to achieve project objectives.
*  Private Sector Partnership. One of the aims of the project is to encourage wide and open
participation of the private sector in testing pilot prototype farm demonstrations which could be
replicated to potential associations of subsistence farmers. The main critena for participation are
readiness to work with communities and provision of substantial investment. Dunng project
preparation, extensive consultations with the pnvate sector took place to enlist their support and
participation in this project. Several workshops and subsequent meetings were held with the
agncultural pnvate sector at large. This resulted in two companies who were willing to partner with
this project (Rum Agricultural Company and EFJ), including providing counterpart funding and
readiness to work with the small farming community at large. Whilst the Rum Agncultural Company
met the criteria, given GOJ's strategy to phase out of agnculture in the Disi area, the Wadi Rum area
was not considered suitable for participation in this project.
*  Additional Components and Sub-Components. The following components and sub-components
were onginally envisaged: a research component; a M/H plants conservation policy initiative and
additional socio-economic surveys versus updating those already undertaken dunng preparation, etc.
Under present conditions, these proposed components, while useful, would only have added a
marginal contnbution to the expected outcomes, while adding more burden to the management at
greater costs.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
L (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Improved Agriculture Practices   Jordan - Agriculture Sector      S             S
Technical Support Project
(ASTSUP)
(P005321-LN.3818-LO)
Biodiversity Conservation        Second Tounsm Development        S             S
Project (JO-PA 35997, US$44
million, under implementation)
- 17 -



Strengthening of RSCN and      HS           HS
Conservation of the Dana
Wildlands (JO-UN20482,
GEF/UNDP funding, Bank
execution, completed)
Medicinal and Herbal Plants      Sn Lanka Conservation and      S             S
Conservation and Management      Sustainable Use of Medicinal
Plants Project (P035828, GEF
TF 028070, approved Dec. 18,
1997, US$5.0 million, under
implementation)
Ethiopia Medicinal Plant        S            S
Conservation, Management and
Sustainable Use Project
(ET-PE-52315/ET-GE-35147,
approved Feb. 15, 2001,
US$1.8 million, under
implementation)
Ghana Northern Savanna          S            S
Biodiversity Conservation
(NSBC) Project
(PO67685-LEN-BBGEF,
US$7.6 million, under
implementation)
Other development agencies
UNDP/GEF - Medicinal and Herbal  Egypt - Conservation and
Plants                           Sustainable Use of Medicinal
Plants in And and Semi-Arid
Ecosystems (EGY/G3-/00,
US$9.0 mullion, under
implementation)
UNDP/GEF-Agro Biodiversity in    MNA Regional Use of Dryland
Agnculture                .      Agro-Biodiversity Project
(ongoing)
ICARDA - Improved Arid Land     Initiative for Collaborationsto
Management                       Control Natural Resource
Degradation of And Lands in
the Middle East.
IFAD/ICARDA - Improved Rangeland Rangeland Management in
Management                       Faisaliy and Buseira Area
UNDP/GEF SGP/Government of       Conservation and Sustainable
- 18 -



France                           Use of Biodiversity in the
Dibeen Nature Reserve (GEF
US$1 million-French
Government. US$2.2 M)
IP/DO Ratings. HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This is the first fully fledged project in Jordan focusing on the conservation of M/H plants Hence,
lessons learned from expenence gained elsewhere in this sector, and through community-driven
development projects in general, will be incorporated into the project. These lessons include (i) the
project design should include technical and stakeholder reviews before it is finalized; and (ii) clearly
defined goals and objectives are essential to focus project efforts, monitor progress, and to demonstrate
impacts.
Important lessons emerging from ongoing M/H plant projects and community-based natural resource
management projects are, or will be used to develop this initiative. This knowledge will deepen through
information shanng, study tours and staff exchanges throughout project preparation and implementation.
The pnncipal lessons learned from individual MI/H plant projects considered by this project are as
follows:
*  Jordan: Conservation of the Dana Wildlands and Strenjthenin_ of the Royal Society for the
Conservation of Nature [RSCNI (GEF/Bank/UNDP). The key factor behind the success of this
project was the continuous involvement of the local population. By building on local skills and
initiatives, opportunities were created to gain a livelihood from the nature reserve without destroying
it. Carefully regulated eco-tounsm provided other opportunities while "putting nature first". The
institutional strengthening component of the RSCN revitalized and presented it with a clear mrssion
and a management by objectives system, with a trained and motivated staff. Most importantly, it
gave it the will to make the protection of Jordan's natural heritage succeed. This proposed project
builds on that experience by including in the project design a participatory process involving all
interested parties, especially local communities.
*  The first Bank-GEF funded medicinal plant project was the 1998 Sn Lanka Conservation and
Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants. Five Medicinal Plant Conservation Areas (MPCAs) were
identified with community participation. However, communities are having difficulty in
understanding that conservation does not exclude sustainable uses. To date, no actual demand has
been determined for the medicinal plants identified in need of protection. Nursenes have been
established in all 5 MPCAs and cultivation tnals initiated. Plantations have also been established in
second-growth areas around the MPCAs. The project is training 160 individuals in government and
agncultural institutions to serve as trainers of other villagers. The project has prepared IPR
legislation documents: "Legal Framework to Safeguard Traditional Knowledge Relating to the Use
of Medicinal Plants" and "Recommendations on New Legislation Required for the Regulation of
Access to Genetic Resources". These documents could be the model for other cases in the GEF
portfolio, including this one, where similar questions anse.
* The Ethiopia Medicinal Plant Conservation, Management and Sustainable Use Proiect is supported
by GEF and IIDA/LL funds. The objective of this project is the conservation, management and
sustainable use of medicinal plants, and integrating selected phytomedicines and traditional health
care into the pnmary health care system. Because there are 12 project stakeholders ranging from
-19-



conservationists to bio-medicinal researchers, implementation was delayed by three months to ensure
all participants fully understood their TORs and Memorancum of Understanding (MOU).
Stakeholder activities proceed according to an agreed schedule. The Project Coordinating and
Monitoring Unit (PCMU) is based in the Institute for Biodiversity Conservation and Research and its
position as lead agency was agreed to by all participating agencies. The PCMU has financial,
procurement and disbursement officers who have developed a good working relationship with
stakeholders. It benefits from a Technical Steenng Comrnittee, of whom many members were part of
the development phase. Project management is also assisted by an Advisory Committee.
O  The Ghana Northern Savanna Biodiversity Conservation (NSBC) Proiect's global objective is to
improve the livelihood and health of communities through the conservation and sustainable use of
natural resources, including medicinal plants. The project recognizes the role and knowledge of
medicinal plants use by women, healers, and pastoralists. An important project component is the
establishment of a close working relationship between MOH and its Department of Traditional and
Alternative Medicine and the lead ministry, namely the Ministry of Lands, Forestry and Mines. The
latter is responsible for the conservation and management of natural resources, including M/H plants.
IPR will also be addressed. The project has established good liaison with the healers in the three
northern regions and will assist them to establish Traditional Healer Associations. Communities will
be responsible for the identification of threatened high-demand MfH plants and, in collaboration with
research scientists, identifying cultivation practices.
O  The objective of the GEF/UNDP Egyptian Conservation and Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants in
Arid and Semi-Arid Ecosystems Project is to conserve globally significant medicinal plant species
and associated habitats in St. Katherine's protectorate. The lessons learned are: (i) immediately
document medicinal plant uses to highlight where conservation efforts are required and to provide
market intelligence in efforts to promote M/H plant products and services; (ii) recognize that
knowledge of the use of M/H plants is an integrated part of their total economic value, hence clear
policies and legislation recognizing the legal nghts of individuals and communities should be
affirmed; (Im) laws pertaining to IPR, trade regulations, proper handling and safe utilization of M/H
plants are missing and need to be addressed; (iv) the subject of medicinal plant conservation requires
effective coordination between government agencies, research institutions, NGOs and local
beneficianes with skilled team coordination and clear definition of roles and areas of expertise.
These lessons were used in formulating the proposed project.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
Jordan ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) on November 12, 1993 and the
Desertification Convention in 1996. It has been one of the most successful countries at implementing
key community-dnven development (CDD) conservation activities, including the "Strengthening of
RSCN and Conservation of the Dana Wildlands Project" and the "Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action
Plan Project ".
The proposed project is consistent with the recommendation of the National Biodiversity Study of 1998
that recommends more extensive work to protect Jordan's nch diversity of M/i1 plants. Sustainable use
of M/H plants is one of the key prionties identified by the study. The 1996 Policy Charter of MOA
explicitly recognizes the importance of conservation and sustainable use of these plants to meet
agncultural diversification objectives and to enhance the efficient use of land and water.
In September 1999, the GOJ requested assistance from the Bank to prepare a project for the conservation
of M/H plants. The PDF-B grant was executed by MOP and MOA/NCARTT. An inter-ministerial
- 20 -



Steenng Committee and a multi-member Technical Conmnttee were formed to assist in its preparation.
Although currently there is a lack of capacity, there is commitment at the highest levels to implement a
model project for M/H plant conservation. Also, GOJ has clearly stated that it has learned from the
difficulties encountered dunng the implementation of the PDF-B Grant. It is therefore fully committed to
ensunng that these difficulties are not repeated during project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The Bank and the GEF have fruitfully collaborated with GOJ in implementing CDD conservation
activities, such as the "Strengthening of RSCN and Conservation of the Dana Wildlands Project", the
"Gulf of Aqaba Environmental Action Plan Project " and the "Second Tounsm Development Project".
The Bank's involvement in the GEF-assisted M/H plant projects allows valuable lessons to be
incorporated into the proposed project and affords the opportunity to promote an exchange of ideas,
facilitate cross-fertilization with other GEF projects and create an M/H plants network.
The principal value added of GEF support is based on its global expenence in designing, implementing
and financing biodiversity conservation projects. The GEF support is justified by the global significance
of M/H plants in Jordan, the existing threats to ecosystem integnty and species survival and the
commitment of the GOJ and NGOs to implement the project. GEF's support will enable the project to
globally target valued and threatened M/H plants, and to a limited extent, address international water
conservation issues, reduce the threat of desertification and increase carbon sequestration.
GEF's conservation alternative will build on the baseline scenano of 'without project intervention' by
strengthening conservation management in the pilot sites GEF's support would enable key information
to be gathered on the socio-economnc and biological data of in-situ M/H plants harvested, their status and
their habitats. This information can be used to denve appropriate management practices within the pilot
sites.
Currently, national efforts to regulate the harvesting of NI/H plants are very limited. Also, there is little,
if any, integration of M/H plant cultivation into agncultural systems. At present, training programs do
not exist and the knowledge base is relatively small. Similarly, expenences with public awareness
programs of M/H plants is limited to a few NGO groups. Therefore, the GEF alternative would:
*  Actively link the development of guidelines for conserving M/H plant hotspots and the sustainable
management and harvesting of M/H plants with community needs and commercial demands.
*  Monitor and evaluate the status of key rare/threatened M/H plants. This will serve as an important
indicator of ecosystem health and human demand in the selected areas.
*  Integrate pastoral farmrng with the sustainable use of rangelands to reduce the threat of wind and
water erosion and with the long-term aim of increasing the presence of M/H plants.
*  Expand the database and gene pool for M/H plants.
* Intensify current efforts to capture traditional knowledge and expand knowledge of the botany of
M/H plants and their use in Jordan.
* Support the development of training programs in scientific institutes and for farmers that focus on
sustainable management and harvesting techniques.
* Promote public awareness on a national scale through financing formal and informal education and
public awareness initiatives in all aspects of M/Il plants conservation.
- 21 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
O Other (specify)
An incremental cost analysis was undertaken. This specified the additional costs accruing to Jordan for
protecting its invaluable biodiversity resources. The project design seeks to emphasize cost effectiveness
through minimrzing budget impact, maximuzing involvement of the local communities, using existing
institutions, and building on lessons learned.
Incremental costs. The incremental costs cover project expenditures of activities that have global
benefits. The baseline expenditure scenano was calculated to establish current and planned funding
amounts for activities that would occur without the GEF M/H Plants Project. The estimated difference
between the cost of the baseline scenano and the cost of GEF's alternative represents the incremental
costs. The incremental costs will contnbute to: (i) achieving global environmental benefits through
conserving rare and endangered MI/H plant species; (ii) completing a database and gene pool of all M/H
plants in Jordan; (iii) strengthening the institutional framework; (iv) developing mechanisms for
sustainable use; and (v) enhancing public awareness of global environment issues pertaining to MI/H
plants conservation. It is expected that GEF's contnbution towards the incremental costs would be in the
order of US$5 million, with estimated additional contnbutions of about US$9.21 million from GOJ,
RSCN, EFJ and beneficiaries.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Total project costs, exclusive of the PDF-B,  are estimated at US$14.21 million.  Usually, the
conventional financial rate of return analysis is not carried out for GEF biodiversity projects. Total GOJ
financing during the project implementation penod is estimated to be about US$7.01 mllion. Mainly,
this will go towards meeting baseline costs that result in pnmanly national benefits. The incremental
costs which generate the global environmental benefits, will be financed through the GEF grant and will
be an estimated US$5 nullion. The following parallel financing is provided: USAID (AMIRIEPP;
US$250,000), USAID (EIIIWUE; US$10 million), Swiss Development and Coordination Agency (Mujib
Nature Reserve; US$460,000), Together for Birds and People in Jordan Valley (Mujib Nature Reserve;
US$577,000), Jordan Telecom (Mujib Nature Reserve; US$97,000) and EJADA (EFJ; US$40,000). A
financial mechanism for ensuring the long-term sustainability of project benefits is being addressed. Its
main emphasis is on developing financially viable products and services based on M/H plants.
As the project encourages the long-term use of M/H resources, the financial benefits to individual
households, rural communities and urban dwellers would be apparent as the project evolves and
widespread sustainable practices are adopted.
Fiscal Impact:
The project is not expected to have a significant fiscal impact on GOJ's budget. The total non-GEF
financing dunng the implementation penod is estimated at US$9.21 mullion. GOJ is comnumtted to
- 22 -



supplying 76 percent of this total, beneficianes, RSCN and EFJ a total of 24 percent. Recurrent costs are
estimated at about US$300,000 annually. This represents a negligible amount of the total recurrent
budget of GOJ.
3. Technical:
The technical capacity and training needs of the collaborating institutions have been assessed dunng the
PDF-B Grant penod and were adapted, where appropriate, dunng project implementation. The project
will establish models of best practices for the sustainable use and management of MMH plants in order to
replicate these experiences in other regions and mainstream their importance in the conservation policy.
The project will focus on M/H plants conservation through stakeholder participation and technological
integration into the ecosystem and habitats. Such an approach implies solutions that are comprehensive,
often based on traditional knowledge, and adapted to participatory planning and decision-making
processes. Jordan has already acquired expenence with such an approach, but never in this sector.
Defining and agreeing on a resource-use approach that is both acceptable to the communities and
favorable to the conservation of M/H plants will be the challenge. Technical inputs will be required for
the sustainable conservation of M/H plants, as well as for monitonng progress, and for the processing
and marketing of M/H products.
Replicability: Results may be slow in the conservation and sustainable management of M/H plants in the
pilot areas. Thus, it may take time before some replicable data are available. Through public awareness
thrusts, GOJ intends to disseminate to all interested parties the positive lessons learned as soon as they
become available. The partnership with the pnvate sector should sponsor dissemination of state-of
the-art practices to the farmng community at-large which have a high potential for replication not only in
Jordan but also in the MNA region.
4. Institutional:
Of note is the fact that this is the first project that addresses conservation of M/H plants in Jordan. There
was no previous institutional mandate for such conservation. Institutional and implementation setups
have been designed to enable sustainabihty and minimize recurrent costs.  The institutional
arrangements are detailed in Section C.4. They result from analyses camed out at the preparation, PCD,
and pre-appraisal stages. Cntena for implementation arrangements included demonstrated autonomy,
sound financial and accounting systems in place, and low overhead costs. Options explored are included
in the PDF-B Institutional Assessment, the PCD, and correspondence of October 30, 2002 to MOP.
4.1 Executing agencies:
See Section C.4.
4.2 Project management:
See Section C.4.
4.3 Procurement issues:
All procurement of goods, works and services financed in whole or in part by the GEF grant under this
project would be competitively bid and contracted in accordance with World Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (Revised January 1999). All recruitment of
consultants for project activities, such as selecting, contracting and monitoring of consultants would be
- 23 -



implemented in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers (Revised May 2002). A detailed procurement plan has been prepared and is shown in
Annex 6. Vehicles will be procured through UNDP IAPSO. EPP Special Tendenng Committee will
ensure compliance of guidelines and prompt procurement of goods and services.
4.4 Financial management issues:
See Section C.4.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMIP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis
An Environmental Assessment (EA) of the project activities has been conducted by GOJ and an
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared to address potential environmental impacts
and to design mitigation and M&E measures. Close consultation with NCARTT, MOA, MOP/EPP,
NGOs, farmers and other stakeholders took place. The EMP is based on background studies and surveys,
namely: an inventory of M/H plants, a cultivation study, a socio-economuc survey, a database, and an
institutional capacity assessment. The EMP was received by the Bank on September 22, 2002 and
disclosed in Jordan on the same date and an updated EMIP was received by the Bank on February 6, 2003.
GOJ updated the governmental webpages with the revised EMP. The PMU/EPP will have the overall
responsibility for implementation of the EMP in close coordination with the implementing agencies. In
summary, the EA determmned that:
o Large areas of the rangelands are detenorating because of drought conditions exacerbated by
overgrazing and over-harvesting of MiH plants This has contnbuted to reducing biodiversity on
these lands and there is an incipient loss of minerals from the soils, including carbon due to
decreased vegetation cover. This is compounded by an increase in wind and water erosion, as a
result of non-sustainable practices, leading to a spiral of decline in the carrying capacity of the land.
Some arable land is in poor condition due to repeated failure of grain crops and the invasion of
noxious weeds. Alternative M/H crops have been tned by NCARTT on a limuted expenmental basis.
These hold some promise as they mature earlier and require less water.
O Some flora and fauna are under threat as a result of these deteriorating conditions as is the livelihood
of farming communities. If little or nothing is done to halt this decline then many rangeland areas
and marginal arable areas will slowly degrade and become non-viable even as pastoral land. This will
directly affect the livelihood of rural communities as M/H plants are a major source of accessible and
affordable health care for humans and livestock.
o Some of these lands will eventually reach desert status with adverse national, regional and global
consequences for biodiversity, carbon sequestration and the quality and quantity of water flow. The
proposal to identify and utilize cultivation practices for threatened high-demand M/H plants does not
pose an environmental nsk.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The project's objectives are to achieve good conservation and management practices of M/H plants.
Thus, the main features of the EMP, as listed below, are to demonstrate best practices for in-situ
conservation and ex-situ cultivation of M/H plants in pilot areas. No pesticides will be procured under the
project. Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and nitrogen fixing plants will be promoted and organic
farming will be encouraged. Potential ex-situ farms will be identified for organic practices and, if they
- 24 -



meet the criteria, certified as organic farms . These farms will serve as prototypes for future expansion of
organic farming practices for M/l plants. The implementation of the EMP will be flexible over the
course of project implementation in close collaboration with the beneficianes.
The main features of the EMP, which are integrated within the relevant project components, include:
* Establishing in-situ and ex-situ pilot sites to demonstrate management methods to protect, propagate
and manage these areas.
* Monitoring all project sites for compliance with best environmental practices.
* Designing and implementing a community-based participatory M&E program (including plants
biodiversity, changes in the habitat, especially wind/water erosion, and the changes in the attitude of
people to the environment). Baseline surveys of M/H plant biodiversity in the Mujib Nature Reserve
and the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley will be completed and regularly updated.
*  Undertaking surveys of M/H 'hotspots' and taking measures to protect them.
* Developing and implementing site community management plans to enhance the sustainable use of
M/H plants in the Mujib Nature Reserve and the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley. These
plans will include, e.g., grazing arrangements with the local community and enrichment and contour
planting.
*  Improving the database, gene pool and seed sources for M/H plant needs.
* Developing and implementing a training and awareness program to build capacity of local
community stakeholders, farmers and other beneficianes in conservation and sustainable use of M[/H
plants. This program will include: water conservation and the proper use of waste and groundwater,
sustainable harvesting methods, organic farming, integrated pest management, best farmung practices,
etc.
* Developing and implementing an environmental education program which will aim at introducing
knowledge about M/H plants in formal and informal education.
* Exposing farmers to demonstration sites and providing them with advice.
* Working with MOE and RSCN to enlarge environmental education in schools and at the tertiary
level, especially concerming M/H plants.
*  Encouraging the planting of M/H plants in and around houses and schools, along contours for erosion
control, along permanent or seasonal nvers/streams and as shelterbelts to improve the microclimate.
*  Encouraging pnvate nurseries to provide seedlings and cuttings of MiH plants.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: February 6, 2003
The date of receipt of the first draft was September 22, 2002, and the date of in-country disclosure was
also September 22, 2002. A revised version was received by the Bank on February 6, 2003. GOJ updated
their governmental websites with this revised version. A copy of the recent version was sent to the
InfoShop on February 12, 2003.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
From project identification there has been close consultation with the local administration, farmers in
selected project areas and the local population within the vicinity. Also, as part of the PDF-B surveys,
potential beneficiaries, especially women, healers and herbalists, were consulted and their opinions
sought. Consultation will be an ongoing project activity and the implementation of the EMP and its
- 25 -



problems (and opportunities) will be reviewed periodically.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The PMU/EPP will be responsible for implementing a detailed M&E system, which is outlined in the
EMP, to assess the impact of the project activities. M&E activities include: updating of baseline
surveys, demonstration programs, monitonng programs for Mi/H plants in-situ and ex-situ, biodiversity,
erosion control, best farming practices, etc. A national database, GIS and gene pool for MiH plants will
be maintained at NCARTT and seed multiplication of M/H plants will be controlled. Environmental
management indicators have been reflected in the project design. Beneficiaries will be actively involved
in the monitonng of the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summanze key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is likely to have a positive social impact with the important objective of testing models to
improve the livelihood of rural communities. As indicated above, participatory approaches will be part
of the project's management planning process in order to ensure that local communities' concems are
addressed effectively and to reinforce a sense of ownership at all levels. It will build on lessons leamed
in community participation and management of completed and ongoing projects. Focus will be placed on
the training of extension workers in participatory and gender approaches. As MiH plants and traditional
health systems are an important source of health care and diet for the rural and urban poor, any effort to
improve and standardize the safety and efficacy of commonly used herbal remedies will benefit the
population.
A number of project components will address social issues as an integrated concemn. The overrdlng
problems of poverty, particularly in marginal and rural areas, will be addressed through the preservation,
management, and cultivation of these valuable plant resources by the communities as a sustainable
source of income. Health issues are also intncately linked to poverty, whereby the M/H plants provide
the primary affordable health care needs of rural and Bedouin communities and their livestock. Ensuring
their sustained and expanded use is of the utmost importance to the health and welfare of the poor.
Gender. Women are an integral part of the economic system built around M/iH plants, whether as
collectors, users or sometimes healers. Social analysis of gender issues in the conservation, management
and sustainable use of natural resources underscores the differences in terms of authority structures,
status in the community, access to land, resources, benefits, income, training and education in the control
and use of the environment. Surveys have already been undertaken to ensure that the women's opinions
and wishes are recorded and that project activities will be designed to involve women as specific target
beneficiaries. To bndge the gender disparity and to alleviate women's vulnerabilities in M/H plants
utilization and management, the project will: (i) ensure that information relating to project activities
reach both men and women, as well as prepanng women to participate fully in the resource management
process; (iu) target women in the communities, as well as women's organizations, for education and
awareness on biodiversity and M/l plants conservation and safe use; (iii) support women to conserve
existing NI/H plants through cultivation; (iv) promote mechanisms for the active and full participation of
women, especially healers and birth attendants in Traditional Healer Associations; (v) target them for
access to micro-credit facilities: and (vi) include women in grower's and producer's organizations.
Summary of key issues. Dunng project preparation, three relevant studies were undertaken: (i) an
Inventory of M/H plants, (it) a Socio-economic Assessment, and (iii) a Cultivation Survey of M/H plants
- 26 -



to deepen the understanding of the social aspect, which will be integrated into the project design of
Component 2. A summary of the results of these three studies (see documents in Project File) is as
follows:
Inventory of M/H plants.
A rapid botanical assessment was carned out in five locations, representing different vegetation
systems and bio-geographical zones in Jordan. Theses zones included: Ajloun Woodland Reserve,
Safawi and Azraq, Mujib Nature Reserve, Wadi Araba and Shaubak area. Nine hundred plant
species were recorded, of which 122 species have medicinal uses. Ninety medicinal species were
specifically identified by interviewees. Three were identified as endangered, 18 as rare, 8 as
decreasing in abundance, while the remaining 93 were common.
A botanical inventory was compiled for each location along with socio-anthropological and
ethno-pharmacological assessments. Threats to future supplies of M/H plants include: (i) habitat
destruction; (ii) ineffective legislation inside and outside protected areas; (iii) insufficient
information on status, distnbution, value and use of medicinal plants; (iv) absence of a national MI/H
plant conservation program; and (v) a high demand for effective species. It is estimated that 60
percent of the people rely on plant-based remedies for their daily health care needs.
Recommendations for conservation, management and sustainable use of M/H plants were proposed
to overcome current threats. They include: (i) in-situ conservation programs that build on indigenous
knowledge and use; (ii) effective plant collection and trade regulations; (iii) prevention of habitat
destruction; (iv) strengthening resource management legislation; (v) ex-situ production; (vi) increase
in public education; and (vii) expanded awareness programs.
The Socio-Economic Assessment.
Dependable domestic statistics on production, processing and trade are unavailable. Marketing of
M/li plants has always been a pnvate sector activity and is domnated by indigenous healers and
small traders. Retailers dictate the trade with four companies controlling 40 percent of the market.
Activities are concentrated in Amman, Zarqa, Maa'n, Irbid, and Kark. Ninety-seven species of M/H
plants are consumed in Jordan, (2.9 t/yr), and ten species account for 80 percent of the trade. Plants
or their products are traded in either their raw state or with limited processing and with almost no
quality control. The value of the trade has not been determined. Monographs for 76 NI/H plants
species considered to be important for cultivation were prepared. As mentioned previously,
over-exploitation, destructive harvesting, habitat degradation, agricultural expansion and grazing are
the major threats to Jordan's MfH plants.
The majonty of pnvate farms is small (between 5-20 dunums equal to 0.5-2 ha) in rainfed areas and
are labor intensive. Farmers are predominantly male and interested in expanding the cultivation of
N/H plants appropnate to their soils. Water is the major limiting factor to increased cultivation,
especially in the Amman and Madaba regions. While women are the pnmary collectors and
users/traders of wild plant resources, their activities indicate that harvesting guidelines are a pnority
need if local extinctions are not to occur. Income denved from the collection and/or cultivation of
M/HL plants is minimal. Cultivation by several commercial operations supplies local markets with
fresh and dned thyme, mint and meramyah, and seeds of anise. Production of the pharmaceutical
companies is not focused on plants of value.
The Cultivation Survey.
It will be essential to make the appropriate cross linkages to the GEF Operational Program 13 (OP
13) on agro-biodiversity because of the need to conserve and use the herbal, medicinal and aromatic
- 27 -



germplasm for sustainable and economnc exploitation. When the cultivation study was prepared, OP
13 was not yet operational. The objective of OP 13 is to promote: (i) the positive and mitigate the
negative impacts of agncultural systems and practices on biological diversity among and within
agro-ecosystems; (ii) the conservation and sustainable use of genetic resources of actual and potential
value for food and agnculture; and (iii) the fair and equitable sharing of benefits ansing from the use
of genetic resources. OP 13 is not intended to substitute for OP 1 through 4 on conservation of
biodiversity in vanous ecosystems, but rather to provide a framework for additional activities
specific to conservation of agncultural biodiversity.
As mentioned previously, a total of 445 species of medicinal plants, which belong to 330 genera and
99 families, are found in Jordan. The cultivation study identified 76 M/H plants species that should
be considered by the project within three categones: (i) vegetables to be cooked or used fresh in
salads, (ni) plants which are grown as omamentals in home gardens, and (iii) plants which are used as
spices or for medicinal purposes. Some of these are indigenous to Jordan, some have global
significance as a source of medicine and some are already grown successfully in other countries. It is
suggested that those with good potential and medicinal properties should be included in a breeding or
selection program to improve their M/H properties. Under this group, the study identifies 39 plant
species and classifies them into three groups; trees, shrubs and herbaceous plants. It will be cntical
to pnontize species within the categories identified, but flexibility should be maintained to the goal
of delivering numerous production possibilities to growers and processors. The pnontization should
be based on best chances of success. The project must stay focused on delivery of production
packages that can be turned over to the private sector. The challenge will be to create the
intersectoral links needed to sustain this chain of effort from discovery to exploitation, marketing and
diffusion/replicability of results.
Monitonng of biological and economic indicators will be essential if the work is to continue beyond
duration of the GEF project. The work program must repeatedly assess progress from the baseline
condition. It should judiciously select venfiable indicators that will be both practical to measure and
use when assessing the presence, absence, frequency, and biological density of biodiversity or rate of
change in the trends of use for land races, under-utilized crops, and other rare species. Stress-tolerant
species are important. However, there is a nsk of devoting too much time to research towards
understanding the pnnciples of stress tolerance over exploitation of the stress tolerance in production
systems.
Irrgation with treated wastewater can be used to produce M/H plants species containing compounds
for industnal extraction. This offers a good opportunity to use this water without health or
environmental hazards. The main thrust of the project should be to obtain feasible, usable results in
supplying raw matenals in sufficient quantity of an optimum quality to the pharmaceutical and M/H
related industnes. Organic farming was not mentioned in the report and should be considered in the
future as an important means of adding value to the category of M/H plants used for human
consumption.
These assessments identified environmental, social, economic and cultural opportunities, and constraints
that should be addressed in the management plans for the in- and ex-situ sites to be developed with the
direct participation of beneficiaries, NGOs and government agencies. These plans should adhere to
Guidelines for Using Social Assessment to Support Public Involvement in World Bank-GEF Projects.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Participatory approaches in design and implementation are core elements of the proposed project.
Information shanng among all stakeholders is key to project design and implementation.
- 28 -



MOA/NCARTT, MOH, BRDP, RSCN, and other agencies participated actively in the project
preparation.  The project built on lessons learned in community participation and natural reserve
management in the GEF-financed "Strengthening of RSCN and Conservation of Dana Wildlands". From
the start, local communities have been involved in project preparation through community workshops,
information sharing, consultation and collaboration. Local communities identified the management and
enforcement cntena and will play a major role in protecting in-situ M/H plant resources, as well as
growing plants on farm and in kitchen gardens. The pnvate sector (including manufacturers, collectors,
pharmaceutical industry herbalists and healers) provides the most important source of information
regarding imported and exported M/H plants and their value for the Jordanian economy; it was involved
and consulted throughout project preparation. Jordan's academna, especially the University of Jordan
and Jordan University of Science and Technology, (Faculties of Agnculture, Pharmacy, Botany) have
been and will continue to be involved in the MMH plants inventory and cultivation component.
Coordination with Stakeholders: MOH, BRDP, RSCN staff, private sector manufacturers of
pharmaceutical drugs, professors of pharmacy plant ecology, private sector herbalists, healers and
farmers were consulted during project preparation to determine the geographic distributions of M/H
plants, the extent of M/H plant use, the most important problems faced concerning conservation,
cultivation and marketing. A number of meetings were held with representatives of the pharmaceutical
industry. These included the Arab Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Co. Ltd., Eden Natural Herbs
Association, Delass Natural Products, and the Jordanian Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Co. Ltd The
RUM Agricultural Company offered to provide space in their nursery to carry out preliminary cultivation
trials using irrigation practices, and initiate tnals in existing irrigated rows in between fruit trees and crop
cultivation. Further offers should follow. The beneficianes and stakeholders in the proposed project
include:
Identification/Preparation  Implementation
a. Primnary beneficiaries and other affected
groups:
* farmers, community groups                  Information Sharing/
* special focus on women                     Consultation/Collaboration  Information Sharing/
* NGOs                                       for all groups listed     Consultation/Collab
* NCARTT, MOA, MOH, MOP, MOENV                                         oration for all groups
* Medicinal Plants Producers and Traders Association                   listed
* Academia: University of Jordan, Jordan University
of Science and Technology
* Users (for human and livestock use)
b. Other key stakeholders
* Donors: ICARDA, GTZ, USDA, USAID, EU,      Consultation              Information Sharing/
Government of South Africa                                           Consultation
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
During preparatton, consultations were held with village and community groups. Group approaches to
resolve conservation, production and marketing problems will be developed dunng project
implementation. There is strong NGO (RSCN) activity in the Mujib Nature Reserve. RSCN is also the
implementing agency for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Biodiversity in the Dibeen Nature
Reserve Project. The illegal collection of M/H plants in the Dibeen Forest was identified as one of the
main threats. Synergies between the projects will be developed, especially in the areas of conservation of
M/H plants and participatory approaches for the development of management plans, as well as income
- 29 -



generating and marketing activities for the local population.  Also, the existence of a strong
Pharmaceutical Association will help the proposed project to improve standards for phytomedicines and
expand or develop markets. Collaboration with local communities will involve cost sharing. This has to
be defined, but it is envisaged that the beneficiaries will provide cash or in-kind contnbutions and in turn
benefit from the sale of MIH plants and products. This will foster an active and results-onentated
participation in the project.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The PMU and the implementation units at the two pilot sites will ensure that the social development
outcomes are obtained through regular monitoring and evaluation of project activities. The project
activities are demand-dnven to ensure that they represent stakeholder pnonties and implementation will
rely substantially on the active participation of these key stakeholders. This approach should promote
project sustainability and ownership by beneficianes, the Governorates and central government. The
institutional arrangements have been designed specifically to ensure transparency in the selection of
partners used for demonstration activities.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Monitonng is based on the baseline surveys undertaken dunng project preparation. Five studies were
undertaken and extensive data were collected on existing M/H plants, their location, possible cultivation
practices and social and economic factors. These are documented as working papers. An M&E system,
including social indicators will be developed by the PMU. This unit will track project performance
through penodic beneficiary and technical surveys. The results of the M&E activities will be fed back
into the implementation process as improved practices. A mid-term review will be camed out on
December 31, 2005 to assess overall progress. Lessons learned, with recommendations for any
improvements, will be used to restructure the project and when necessary.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies tnggered by the pro ect?
Policy                                     Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          C) Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                        U Yes () No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   U) Yes U) No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        Yes U No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 () Yes U No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  U) Yes U No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         J Yes U No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             () Yes U No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  U) Yes U) No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       C) Yes C) No
7.2 Descnbe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An EA was carred out and resulted in the EMP. The project will promote the conservation and
sustainable management of M/H plants in the Mujib Nature Reserve and in-situ hotspots as well as
ex-situ. This will lead to improved biodiversity protection. OP 4.09 is not tnggered. No pesticides will
be procured under the proposed project. If farmers ex-situ are found to be using such chemicals on their
own land they will be encouraged to use Integrated Pest Management (IPM) in line with FAO guidelines.
- 30 -



IPM will be demonstrated as a viable alternative to the application of chemucals, as will the application of
organic fertilizers in place of mneral fertilizers.
Project activities will not tngger OP 4.12 Conservation will take place without restnction of access to
grazing lands in the Mujib Nature Reserve. Ex-situ activities will only take place on farms that are
interested in this and only with the consent of the owners.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Technical sustainabilit of the project will be ensured by: (i) enhanced biodiversity protection through
water catchment and soil conservation measures and grazing contracts with local communities where
warranted; (ii) establishment and maintenance of an M/H plant database, GIS and gene bank, (iii)
NCARTT responding to the demands of farmers, NGOs and pnvate sectors to conduct demand-dnven
applied research on M/H plants rather than basic research; and (lv) the diffusion of conservation and
cultivation of best practices. Technical sustainability will be affected both by natural (e.g., drought) and
market elements (e.g., pricing).
The institutional sustainability of the project will be ensured through: (i) capacity building of all
stakeholders; (ni) development of inter-sectoral links accompanied by definition of responsibilities; (mii)
direct involvement of farmers, local communities and other beneficianes; (iv) refocusing of NCARTT's
technology transfer to respond to demand and water saving measures; and (v) implementation of the MIH
plants conservation mandate through farmers, NGOs and the pnvate sector with support from NCARTT.
Social sustainability of the project will be ensured by: (i) the participation of local communities in
management, decision making and monitonng of the pilot-sites conservation, (ii) the implementation of a
public awareness campaign for the conservation and sustainable use of M/HI plants, and (iii) extensive
pnor expenence demonstrated by RSCN with respect to community participation in the "Conservation of
the Dana Wildlands and Strengthening of the RSCN" project (GEF/IBRD/UNDP).
Financial and economic sustainability of the project will be ensured by: (i) providing farmers with
marketing analysis to identify the most profitable plants to grow ex-situ; (ii) improving the
socio-economrc conditions of targeted populations; and (iii) mrinimzing the burden on GOJ's budget
through actively involving NGOs and the private sector in project implementation.
la. Replicability:
Eight other in-situ sites have already been identified as candidates for in-situ conservation in the
preparation phase. Thus, the project is expected to be replicated in these locations once conservation
methods have been established in the two project sites. Also, more pnvate sector involvement in Mi/H
plant cultivation is expected through the ex-situ cultivation.
- 31 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of cntical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment towards            M         Government involved to ensure that the
conservation of MiH plants dwindles.               benefits accruing from conserving and using
M/H plants through rural employment and
income generation, erosion reduction, import
substitution, and the development of the M/H
plants sector.
Proposed MOP overall control of PMU       H        Steenng Committee and Bank to closely
and flow of funds results in delays in             supervise implementation at the outset. MOP
payment to consultants and contractors             Assistant Secretary of Administration &
for services and equipment hampering               Finance committed to issuing payments for
the timely implementation of project               requests submrtted by the PMU within 3 days
activities by PMU, NCARTT, RSCN,                   and entrusted the responsibility of this
and EFJ and thereby the achievement of             commitment to a finance officer hired for this
project objectives.                                project.
The competence of NCARTT to transfer      S        NCARTT is already initiating the shift,
knowledge remains limited.                         sponsored through project preparation to
ensure response to farmers' demands and move
away from supply-dnven research. Project will
further promote this shift through TA.
NCARTT is to demonstrate responsiveness to
demand, for the first time, through the project.
In particular, through pilot-prototype farm
demonstrations, including the use of needed
equipment outside the stations.
Decrease of MiH plants with the           N        Project to promote national awareness program
concurrent increased degradation of                targeted at key audiences, including policy
rangelands and inability of Government             makers and to demonstrate methods to
to avert further damage.                           conserve M/H plants and their role in reversing
degradation.
Low/inadequate commitment from            N        In-situ and ex-situ areas selected after detailed
beneficiaries.                                     consultation and agreement with beneficianes.
Participatory approach implemented for
development plans.
From Cbmponents to Outputs
Slow processing of procurement of goods  M         The PMU includes a procurement specialist
and services which will hamper                     and EPP/MOP Special Tendering Committee
implementation.                                    whose responsibility will be to ensure the
quality and timeliness of procurement.
Competent staff may be hampered by        S        Steenng Committee to ensure hiring of emnent
bureaucracy.                                       staff. The PMU should have flexibility and the
financial and procurement management should
-32 -



follow the Bank's guidelines.
Inadequate collaboration between           M        Inter-agency training courses and site visits will
inter-agencies and other stakeholders               increase cooperation, especially as project
proceeds. Collaboration began dunng project
preparation. EPP well placed to foster
coordination.
Other donor funding inadequate, pnvate     N        Relevant donors and the private sector have
sector support lacking.                             committed and started to provide support.
Additional support is expected upon
implementation of the project
Implementing agencies for the pilot M/H    N        Collaboration and healthy competition between
plants conservation sub-component will              the implementing agencies should contribute to
not work together.                                  maxiimzing their efficiency. Inter-site visits
and frequent exchange of information should
lead to a vibrant cooperation.
Implementing agencies may be unable to     S        Project will provide training and career
retain qualified staff, especially in the           development benefits and work towards loyalty
field.                                              in this professional field.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N/A
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
N/A
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
The Recipient will maintain a PMU under TORs and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank. The PMU
shall have overall responsibility for implementation as set forth in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
and in the PAD. For that purpose, the PMU shall: (i) design and implement a simple MIS for M&E; (11)
prepare and fumish to the Bank annual work plans and budgets; and (iii) provide quarterly and annual
reports covering the implementation progress, the use of funds and project impacts in a format acceptable
to the Bank.
The Recipient will provide funds, facilities, services and other resources needed for the project.
The Recipient will secure funding for the remaining US$2.1 million gap under Component 4.
The Recipient will establish an operational PMU financial management system, including a financial
- 33 -



management manual and a computenzed accounting system, acceptable to the Bank by September 30,
2003.
The Recipient will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank.
The Recipient will submit unaudited quarterly financial monitonng reports (FMRs) within forty five (45)
days of each quarter end.
The Recipient will have the project financial statements (project balance sheet, statement of sources and
uses of funds, and Special Account statement) audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank,
no later than six (6) months after year end.
The Recipient will recruit members for the Technical Comnuittee immediately following the
establishment of the PMU.
The Recipient will implement the EMP.
The Recipient will maintain policies and procedures adequate to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing
basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the project and the
achievement of the project's objectives.
The Recipient will prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not
later than six (6) months after Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the project.
H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineenng design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Not applicable.
Following negotiations, GOJ has committed to launch the selection process for the PMU Project
Manager and the Project Financial/Procurement/Disbursement Specialist and to select these two staff
pnor to presentation of the project to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors.
Following negotiations, GOJ has committed to appoint the Steenng Committee and initiate bids for
equipment.
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
- 34 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
I   Nicole   neurM. Salahaarghouth
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                      ountry Director
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         _                            Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improve water resource     Environmental degradation  Reports                   Political support at all levels
management and            level.                     National statistics        for sustainable use of natural
environmental protection.  Agricultural water efficiency  Monitonng system      resources.
Promote human development  (%).                      Bank economic reports      Rural development and
in Jordan.                 Rural income (number).                               poverty alleviation.
Promote private sector     Private sector investment
investment.                volume (number).
GEF Operational Program:   Outcome / Impact
Indicators:
OP# 1: Arid and Semi-Aid   M/H plant conservation and  Monitoring program       GOJ's ability to mobilize
Zone Ecosystem.            management initiatives    GOJ statistics             resources for environmental
OP#13: Land Degradation and implemented for species of  Project reports         protection and build
Agro-biodiversity         regional and global                                   institutional capacity,
(cross-cutting areas).     significance (number).                               particularly for the
Reduced land degradation as                          conservation and use of M/H
measured by increased                                plants and biodiversity
vegetation cover in selected                         conservation, thus contributing
areas (%).                                           to community development
and the national economy.
Project Development        Outcome/Impact Indicators: Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Design and test models to  New mechanisms for        Project database           Increased GOJ commitment,
improve the conservation of  partnerships and working  M&E information          community participation and
M/H plants and the livelihood  methods established (Y/N).  Socio-economic surveys  pnvate sector investment.
of rural communities through  Functioning models with
the management and         community NGOs. and pnvate
sustainable use of M/H plants sector operate beyond project
for human and livestock   life (Y/N).
needs.
Global Objective:          Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Indicators:
Improved conservation and  M/H plants of global      Gene bank                   Species of global importance
sustainable use of M/H plants. importance collected,  Baseline survey           will be better managed.
documented and categorized  On-going field monitoring  Information from gene bank is
in gene bank (number).     Progress reports           shared amongst all partners.
Successfully protected     Supervision reports
conservation species       Consultant reports
(number).
- 36 -



Key.Performance     |, Data Collection S,trategy  Critical
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                    -                Critical Assumptions   |
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Institutional
Strengthening
PMU operational including  PMU fully functional and  Project supervision reports  Ability to maintain staff,
administration, finance,   operational by project start-up M&E reports         offices and GOJ support.
procurement, M&E system    (Y/N).                    Training reports          Counterparts take on planning
and training.              Training needs identified and                       & management
Institutional collaboration  implemented (number)                              responsibilities.
strengthened.              M&E system implemented                              Admrnistrative financial
(Y/N)                                                system operates effectively.
Develop crucial mter-sector  Technical committee between  Technical committee meeting  Bureaucratic and legislative
liks (MOA, MOH,            relevant stakeholders     minutes                   acceptance of regulatory
pharmaceutical industry,   established and improves  Follow-up activities      changes
producers, consumers)     partnership (Y/N).         Progress reports          GOJ endorsement.
Intellectual property rights  IPR policy & guideline drafted Project reports   GOJ commits to complying
(IPR) policy and guidelines  and adopted (YIN).      GOJ records               with international guidelines
developed.
Establish health and safety  Regulatory function improved Project reports      GOJ comrmts to complying
standards.                (Y/N).                     GOJ records               with international guidelines
Technical committee on
standards & testing established
(Y/N).
Standards published (Y/N).
Establish a national M/H  Floral species recorded    Project reports            Existing lab and data
plants database, GIS system  (number).               Database reports          available.
and update gene bank.     Extinct species recorded and  GIS maps
stored (number)           Database website
GIS map created (YIN).
Database website launched
and updated regularly (Y/N).
Technical and managenal   Farmers (m/f) trained in IPM, Training modules
capacity of stakeholders  organic farming, cultivation of Final reports        Student interest in M/H plant
enhanced.                 MIH plants (number).       Reports on the adaptation in  field applied research
18 graduate students selected  the field of applied research  Farmers see value in training
for applied research grants  results.
2. Pilot-Sites Conservation
Two pilot conservation sites  Endangered species protected  Project reports    Management in the 2 sites in
established (Mujib and Rift  (number).               Site management plans     place
Valley).                  Site management plans      Training modules          Trained staff recruited.
Rare and endangered species  formulated (number).    M&E information           Local communities support in-
recorded and protected.   Areas covered by site                                situ conservation.
Local knowledge and usage of management plans recorded
- 37 -



M/H plants for day-to-day  (hectares).
health care needs recorded.  Local knowledge and usage
Methods for propagation and  recorded.
cultivation established    Training participants recorded
Training program established  (number)
Hot spots identified (number).
Ex-situ cultivation tnals of  Ex-situ trals conducted  Project reports          Farmers recognize benefits &
MtH plants established.    (number).                 M&E information            willing to participate in the
Establish pilot prototype  Organic farming and product  Training modules        expanded output of MtH
farms.                     labels developed (YtN).                              plants.
Contract farming models                              GOJ willing to work with the
standardized (YtN).                                  private sector.
Environmental training                               Cultivation of MIH plants is
participants recorded                                commercially viable.
(number).
3. Public Awareness and
Education
Envtronmental education    Currcula for formal and   Progress reports           MOE a willing parmer to
delivered to communities and  mformal environmental  Printed education matenals  develop or expand curncula.
schools.                   education includes information MOE information       Funds available for simple
on MiH plants (number).    Surveys                   equipment for schools.
Children knowledgeable about Consultants' reports     Communities actively involved
importance of local M/H    Training modules           in environmental protection.
species (YIN).                                       Educational institutions
Training course established for                      interested in including
environmental education                               environmental education.
(number).
Training and knowledge     Targeted communities-based  Progress reports         Targeted audiences identified.
shanng tools developed,    training workshops        Publications               Channels and actions defined.
public awareness campaigns  undertaken(number/year).  Project website
including those for women  Beneficiaries receiving
implemented                educational matenal (number)
1800 farmers visit 60 areas.
Project website launched and
updated monthly (YIN).
4. Income Generation
Activities: M/H plant quality
enhancement and product
development
Certification of organically  Certified farms (number).  List of certified farms  International standards
grown produce compiled and                           Project reports            accepted.
accepted nationally and                              Inspector's reports        Orgamcally grown produce
internationally.                                     Agricultural statistics    command higher price.
Advice on standards suggested Committee provides advice on Consultants' reports  Jordan Bureau of Standards
for harvested M/H plant    standards (YIN).          Project reports             plays active role in standards
products.                                                                       enforcement.
- 38 -



Advice on standards offered  Committee provides advice on Consultants' reports    Certifying body/system for
for processed Mi/H products.  standards (Y/N)          Project reports            international standards exists
Quality control measures   Quality testing laboratory  Project reports            Competent staff recruited.
adopted for M/H plant      established and operational  Laboratory reports        Lab becomes self-sustaining.
products.                   (Y/N).                     Inspector's reports
Product development by      New product lines developed  Consultant reports       GOJ active in export
communities/prnvate sector  or enhanced (number).      Project reports            promotion and trade fairs.
Consultant reports         Market pnces are sufficient
Trade papers                incentive for producers,
Trade statistics            processors and traders.
Market identification market  Information compiled on all  Project reports        GOJ active in export
intelligence, export       aspects of trading. Partnership Socio-economuc surveys  promotion and trade fairs.
opportunities and building  with pharmaceutical sector
partnerships with the      established and regular
pharmaceutical sector.      meetings held (Y/N)
Micro-credit available to  Loans portfolio (amount)    Project reports            Interest on the part of lenders.
individuals and communities                            Socio-economnc surveys
for MA/H plant initiatives                             Credit institution reports
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
Component 1. Institutional  US$ 2.54 mllion
Strengthening
*  Project Management Unit,                            *   PMU reports            Continuous support for project
(PMU)                                              *   Steering committee      provided by different
*  Development of inter-                                  reports                 ministries and implementing
sector links.                                      *   Government records      agencies.
*  Intellectual property rights                        *   Follow-up activities   Skilled staff recruited and
(IPR), policy and                                  *   Trade statistics        maintained at the PMU.
guidelines.                                        *   Database reports
*  Establishing health and                             *   Website
safety standards.
*  Establishing M/H plants
database, GIS system and
upgrading gene bank
*  Training program
identified and delivered.
Component 2. Pilot-Sites   US$6.92 million
Conservation
*   In-situ conservation in                            * PMU reports               Support and commitment from
two areas in Jordan and                            * M&E information           local communities for
demonstration plots.                                                           conservation activities
*   Ex-situ M/H plants
expansion and
demonstrations
Component 3. Public        US$1.25 million
awareness
- 39 -



o   Formal and informal                              o MOE reports             Continuous support and
environmental education.                         o PMU reports             commitment from schools and
o M&E information         universities for M/H plant
   Public awareness,                                o Website                 conservation education
including promoting                                                        Sklled and knowledgeable
replication.                                                               trainers to conduct training
courses.
Interest in mass media to
promote M/H plant awareness
campaign.
Component 4. Income       US$3 5 million
Generation Activities: M/H
plant quality enhancement
and product development
o   Certification of organic                         o GOJ records             Continuous GOJ support for
farms and products.                              o PMU reports             export promotion of M/H
o   Standards for Ml plants                          o M&E informatlon         plants.
for harvested products                           o Trade reports
o   Processing standards for                         o Consultants' reports
M/H plant manufactured                           o Bank reports
products
o   Quality control of M/H
plant products
o   Product development.
o   Market identification
a   Facilitating access to
Micro-credit.
PDF-Block B               US$0.35 million
- 40 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
This Annex descnbes the vanous project components. The cost breakdown of the components and
sub-components is given in Annex 4.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$2.54 million
Institutional Strengthening (US$ 2.54 m - GEF US$1.95 m)
This component is composed of six (6) sub-components.
The Project Management Unit (PMU). The project will establish a PMU which will be staffed
with a Project Manager, a lead local specialist in M/H plants; a M&E and Training Specialist; a
Financial Management/Procurement Specialist (3 years); one Admnistrative Assistant and one
Driver. Since this is a new area for Jordan, the positions of the Project Manager and the M/H Plant
Specialist will be coupled with an international expert position for the first three years in order to
transfer knowledge and technology. Other local and international experts will be hired as consultants
with expertise in fields such as M/H plant conservation techniques, M&E, standardization and
certification, updating of beneficiary and scientific surveys, etc. Each PMU position will have EPP
or NCARTT staff as counterparts. All staff will be recruited competitively. Small implementation
units will be established at the two pilot conservation areas. These units will be under the
supervision of the PMU. Two organizations will manage these pilot sites, namely RSCN at Mujib
Nature Reserve and NCARTT in the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley. The PMU will
supervise all component and sub-component activities as outlined in Section C of the PAD.
The PMvU will coordinate all aspects of the project and implementing agencies, especially those
under the second component. It will be responsible for all procurement, financial management and
M&E matters. It will recruit various consultants, produce annual work and procurement plans,
compile quarterly financial reports and the annual report. It will organize steering and technical
comrmttee meetings and ensure that accounting procedures and reporting is undertaken according to
procedures and carried out in a timely fashion.
* Development of Inter-Sector Links. In order that the concerns of all interested parties are taken
into consideration and to avoid duplication of efforts, it is important to develop links between GOJ
agencies such as MOA, MOE, MOH, MOIT, MOP, MOENV, the growers of M/H plants, the
pharmaceutical industry, other producers of M/H plant products, NGOs and the consumers. A
conmuttee will be established to discuss technical and institutional matters relevant to this sector,
including strengthening national policy and having an adequate regulatory capacity to advise the
project and to facilitate the conservation of M/H plants, while at the same time promoting their
sustainable and expanded use. The comnmttee will meet six times per year for the duration of the
project and comprise of an estimated 14 members. It will advise the project, the industry, GOJ and
the community.
Intellectual Property Rights (IPR). The purpose of this sub-component is to design an IPR
framework in close collaboration with AMIR and MOrr, advise on the licensing of M/Hi plants and
establish a workable patent system. International and national consultants will be engaged to
examine IPR in other countries and the patent laws in Jordan. A technical committee will be
-41 -



appointed compnsing of six people to advise the GOJ about M/(H IPR. This committee will meet six
times per year for the first three years.
v Standards Establishment. This sub-component is to establish health and safety standards for the
M/l plant sector, from seeds to volatile oils. It will look into existing quality of products and the
method of selling such products on the national and international markets. International and national
consultants will be engaged to examine procedures in Jordan and other countnes and make
recommendations accordingly. A technical committee will be appointed compnsing of six people to
advise GOJ about standards and testing procedures. This committee will meet six times per year for
the first three years.
o  Database/GIS and Gene Bank for M/Hl Plants. This sub-component will build upon the existing
facilities in NCARTT. A national M/H plants database and gene pool will be established and
maintained at the NCARTT headquarter in Amman. Links will be established or expanded to
databases throughout the world An international consultant will advise the project on establishing
and maintaining links and providing training to personnel at NCARTT. There will be facilities at
NCARTT to collect all species and vaneties, especially rare and endangered ones. This will be a
source for their multiplication. Extinct species could be obtained from surrounding countnes if
available, and be re-introduced. Through networking, contacts will be made worldwide on M/H
plants and the flow of information and matenals should be of importance to the project. The PMU
and implementing entities will co-manage the database with NCARTT.
o Training. The training program will include: short-term on site instruction courses for counterpart
and project staff; short-term workshops, courses, educational visits both in and outside Jordan;
training for local communities including IPM; graduate applied research grants for transfer of
knowledge. Further design and implementation of the training program will be coordinated by the
PMU and delivered through all the components. Training will include:
(a) M.Sc. & Ph.D. Applied Research Grants. There are many technical and social aspects
concerned with the growing and production of M/H plants that are still uncertain. Thus,
students will be encouraged, through grants, to carry out applied research with farmers
and/or the pnvate sector. The grants will be allocated on a competitive basis according to
guidelines to be developed and agreed with the Bank. It is estimated that 18 M.Sc. or Ph.D.
students will benefit from these grants over a two-year penod (four-year period for Ph.D.
students) to carry out applied research in the scientific and social fields. Applied Research
topics will be identified in close collaboration with PMU, NCARTT, RSCN, the private
sector and the universities, etc.
(b) Short-Term Training Courses. The following short-term training courses are suggested to
build up the capacity in the MiH plant sector including culinary, medicinal and aromatic
herbal plants, which cover different areas. The training courses should focus not only on
scientific aspects but also on the operational and practical aspects resulting in delivery of
components. Participation in training courses will involve a wide range of beneficiaries, e.g.,
participants could be farmers, women, community members, herbalists, extension agents,
GOJ staff, pnvate businesses, researchers or students. Some courses may be conducted more
frequently than others during the life time of the project.
- 42 -



In-situ Conservation
* Natural reserve management
 Management of plant genetic resources
* Collection and survey of wild plant resources
* Database management
*  Preparation of specimen sample for herbanum
. Taxonomy
Ex-situ Cultivation
* Agricultural Crop Management: This will include developing skills in the areas of soil
preparation, the use of proper seeds and seedlings, planting techniques, crop management,
imfgation, water conservation, appropnate combination of M[H plant species for yield
enhancement, proper harvesting methods and modem farm management.
*  Contract Farmrng:
(a) To explain the principle of contract farming, provide insights into benefits and
obligations. To analyze a sample contract and explain the dynamics that are involved to
protect the farmer and contractor.
(b) To explain the process of building an effective herb association. Analyze the benefits and
the. constraints. To provide a road map to building an effective association.
* Organic farming: to provide farmers/beneficiaries with practical knowledge and skills on
how to produce organically and how to cope with standards and certification procedures.
* Integrated Pest Management: to provide farmers with the knowledge to identify common
diseases in medicinal, aromatic and culinary herb cultivation. To train farmers on how to
control diseases and other pests using proper agncultural practices.
Post Harvest and Processing
* Post harvest handling methods:
(a) Latest methods used to extend shelf life of fresh cut herbs. Detail description of the
process, and the machinery to be used to reach that purpose (example-chlorinated cool
water and drying treatments).
(b) Insight into proper packaging process, in bulk and bunches.
(c) Pnnciple of herb cooling, and proper temperature for storage and prepare for long air
transportation. (Example, the work process in a typical modem post harvest pack and
grading house, and sketch an ideal post harvest set up.)
(d) In-depth look at the importance of the integrated cooling chain, from harvest time to the
final market destination.
(e) Proper packaging techniques, for large pallet shipments as well as individual packing.
(f) Proper drying storage, cleaning, grading, rmxing, packing techniques for different M/H
plant commodities.
* Extraction Methods of Volatiles: hydro-distillation and other methods.
* Chromatographic separation of volatile oils and active ingredients.
 Qualitative and quantitative analysis of active ingredients.
* Formulation of M/H plant extracts in pharmacological and cosmetical dosage forms.
- 43 -



Project Component 2 - US$6.92 million
Pilot-Sites Conservation (US$ 6.92 m - GE1F US$2.71 m)
This component has two sub-components, namely the in-situ protection and management of M/H plants
and the ex-situ production of rare, endangered and popular M/H plants to relieve in-situ pressure. The
in-situ sub-component covers two pilot sites where M/H plants will be protected and managed by the
local communities. Rare and endangered species will be planted for conservation purposes at the in-situ
sites. The ex-situ pilot cultivation of M/H plants will serve to relieve in-situ pressure. The ex-situ pilot
sites will be used to demonstrate methods and techniques to plant, tend, harvest and process M/l plants.
In-situ Conservation and Sustainable Use of MIH Plants
Mujib Nature Reserve in-situ Conservation
The Mujib Nature Reserve covers 21,500 ha and is adjacent to the Dead Sea. Four bio-geographical
regions are present in the reserve and 396 flora and fauna species have been identified. The average
rainfall in this reserve ranges from 250 to 350 mm annually and it is a water-stressed and eroded area.
The reserve is used by local herders for grazing and some agriculture activities.
The Mujib Nature Reserve is managed by RSCN which has pnmary scientific-based knowledge of the
site. While the exact number of communities to be involved in the project has yet to be determuned, it is
estimated that about 30 villages will be participate.
Livestock grazing poses a significant threat to bio-diversity conservation in the Mujib Nature Reserve.
Baseline ecological surveys conducted by RSCN during 1998 revealed clear evidence of over grazing of
the natural vegetation cover and disturbance to soil profiles and plant comnmunity structures through the
casual planting of fodder crops and on-site feeding of concentrates and hay. The grazing pressure is
largely confined to the eastern edge of the reserve, where livestock owners from nearby villages have
traditionally utilized the rangeland for goats and sheep. In response to the grazing problem, the local
livestock owners and RSCN agreed to design and implement wntten agreements to zone grazing use.
These agreements have been in place and implemented for four years. They define seasonal zoning uses
of these areas for grazing animals within the reserve, but there are no limitations on stocking density.
The agreements cover an area of 40 square kilometers and there are no limits to grazing during spring
and autumn. In order to compensate for any possible socio-economic negative effects created by the
grazing agreements implemented during the summer and winter, RSCN has started a program of
alternative income generation opportunities, targeted at livestock owners.  These include tourism
initiatives and handicrafts, as well as agricultural projects outside the reserve boundary. The M/H plants
project will update this program through the ex-situ activity of growing M/H plants for local community
benefits, and training in rangeland management.
The villagers will be involved from the onset to identify areas containing valuable and rare/endangered
M/H plants and indigenous knowledge and use will be recorded. The existing knowledge of villagers will
serve as a basis to address sustainably conservation concerns. Women especially will play a key role in
the conservation and use of M/H plants They are the primary source of home health care and their
knowledge of wild plant sources of MiH plants is invaluable. They have the ability to maintain high-use
species in home gardens. In many households, they are actively engaged in livestock herding and
consequently must admunister health care to their animals when sick. Accessing this human and
livestock health care knowledge base is critical to the success of this project.
-44-



Traditional health care knowledge is held by the senior women referred to as "Hajat". These women
diagnose and treat ailments and infections, and treatment is generally free. The "Hajat" are also
midwives who have acquired their knowledge through individual experience. No information is available
regarding the total number of "Hajats" in the country or number of people treated, nor is there any
information regarding the number of home deliveries performed by the midwives. Starting with the
project sites, an inventory of "Hajats" will be undertaken, including the documentation of their
knowledge both of plants and their uses. This would provide important information on the distribution
and sustainability of supply of M/H plants, particularly of plants whose future existence might be in
doubt. Regardless of the doubts by biomedical practitioners of its validity, treatment by "Hajat" still
remains a viable, effective, cultural acceptable form of health care that needs to be documented and
where scientifically proved, to be formally included in primary health care policy. Such information
would be very useful in planning future activities by linking health and agncultural programs. Initially, it
is proposed to link the GOJ health clinics in these two project sites with the traditional healers vis-a-vis
referrals, etc., for their mutual benefit.
The Project staff in the areas will give full-time support to the communities and services from the PMU
and other components of the project will assist to ensure its successful implementation. The core staff for
these interventions includes a Manager, a Site Team Leader, Ecologist, six Rangers/Community Support
Officers, an Accountant and an Adrmnistrator, together with vehicles and equipment. National and
international consultants will undertake studies on the dynamics of M/H plants communities, their
management and their propagation both in-situ and ex-situ. Other proposed studies include water
harvesting tnals, soil erosion interventions and community participation programs. Site community
management plans will be designed and implemented by the communities. These plans will include
updated grazing agreements, water-catchment and harvesting measures, ennchment planting, erosion
control both of wind and water, natural measures to increase and maintain fertility and integrated pest
management initiatives.
RSCN will ensure that phased management plans are compiled and implemented over a five-year penod
These plans will include appropriate management tools for the sustainable use of M/H plants and their
products. In order to relieve the pressure to endangered, rare or popular MI/H plants, farmer based
cultivation tnals will be established. These trials will be undertaken in collaboration with the ex-situ
sub-component. An important part of this initiative will be learming by doing and ensunng that results
from the various interventions, whether positive or negative, are relayed to farmers and other interested
parties through demonstrations and communications. In addition to this pnority site, another eight sites
were identified as areas in need of protection and management. Thus, the best practices from Mujib
Nature Reserve should be documented and made available to communities, GOJ and other donors, who
may be interested in broadening the scope of the project to all identified pnonty areas of Jordan and to
other countries with similar issues.
Training
The training component of the project will be used to build the capacity of local community stakeholders
and RSCN staff in the conservation and sustainable use of M/H plants. An indicative training program,
showing proposed topics and broad time frames is given in the table below, although the specific training
needs of the target groups will be assessed as part of the initial phase of the project and the program will
be adjusted accordingly. A considerable amount of capacity building will also occur as a result of
"on-the-job" expenence gained throughout the development process.
- 45 -



Proposed topics  Indicative content                     Yr 1      Yr 2   Yr 3
(Q = Quarter)
Identification of  Species identification in the field.  Q2
M/H plants and   Traditional and modem knowledge of
their medicinal  healing properties. Active ingredients.
properties.
In- situ         Status, distribution and threats.       Q3
conservation of  Conservation needs. Potential for
Mi/H plants.     assisted regeneration.
Sustainable      Collecting techniques. Seasonality. Safe  Q4
collection methods yields.
for wild plants.
Cultivation of M/H Seed collection and storage.                    Q1
plants.          Propagation, cropping systems, pest
management, collection.
Processing of    Harvesting, drying, cleaning,                     Q1
medicinal plant  packaging, labeling, extraction of oils,
products.        processing for other products.
Marketing of     Identification of markets, marketing               Q4
medicinal plant  strategies, establishing sales outlets,
products.        advertising and promotion, cooperation
with other agencies.
Small business   Planning, target setting, accounting,                    Qi
management.      quality control, staff management.
Development of   Creation and/or institution building for                 Q2
local community  local farmng and tourism cooperatives.
cooperatives.
Outreach and     Prepare an outreach and education                        Q1
education        program related to medicinal herbs.
programs.
Grazing          Sustainable rangeland management.        Q4
management.      Rotational grazing, dry land farming
and gardening.
Medicinal herbs  Introducing M/H plants and their uses              Q2
and tounsm.      to guided tours in the Mujib Nature
Reserve.
At project completion, representatives of about 30 communities will participate in managing and
protecting these sites which will be used to demonstrate in-situ protection and management and ex-situ
growing of rare and endangered species. Thus, other sites identified dunng the preparatory phase could
have similar interventions initiated before the end of the project's five-year life. Through the production
of MiH plants and products, the sites will be self-supporting and become dynamic rural communities.
The outputs of these in-situ activities include:
i Implementation of an overall management plan for the sustainable conservation of MiH plants in
the Mujib Nature Reserve with focus on micro-catchment and erosion control;
- 46 -



* results from the following applied research to improve M/H plants conservation are
implemented:
(a) updated surveys on M/H plant use
(b) plant communities, structure and properties identified
(c) apply propagation research
(d) hotspots identified and managed with the local community
(e) mitigation measures to M/ll plant threats
(f) rangeland management
(g) conservation monitoring program for Mujib Nature Reserve
*  protection strategy implemented for the conservation of M/H plants including:
(a) a community-based enforcement program
(b) updated zoning plan
(c) participatory grazing strategy for the area
* community-based programs, including:
(a) participatory rural assessment
(b) demonstration tnals for growing endermc and rare species
(c) pilot nursenes for the use of the local community
(d) community-based income generating activities
(e) water harvesting techniques and soil erosion control measures
*  an outreach and education program for the Mujib Nature Reserve area including
(a) M/H plants importance and value
(b) interpretation and educational matenal
(c) field of MiH plants integrated into Nature Conservation Club (NCC) networks
(d) seminars to the local community
(e) interpretation tools for reserve visitors
* capacity-building program, including:
(a) training for reserve staff and local community
(b) study tours for relevant stakeholders
*  contnbutions to the M/H plant database, gene bank and GIS located at NCARTT.
The Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley in-situ Conservation
'Hotspots' are defined as areas of vanous size where biodiversity is under increasing threat due to human
activity, land degradation and environmental anomalies. In Jordan, the hotspots of the Central Upper
Slopes of the Rift Valley are threatened by human activities, especially over-harvesting of M/H plants
that are a source of accessible and affordable home health care. The hotspots of the Central Upper
Slopes of the Rift Valley whose species are endangered will be identified and zoned with the cooperation
of the local people who have indigenous knowledge. Conservation action plans will be developed and
implemented to protect these M/H plants. One option may be for the Queen Noor Al Hussein Foundation
(NHF) in close cooperation with other bodies such as NCARTT, RSCN and the PMU to manage up to
20 hotspots, spread over a five-year penod starting with 4 and adding 4 new ones each year.
This sub-component will support the following activities: (i) inventory of flora and fauna and definition
of the boundanes of the hotspots in collaboration with knowledgeable parties; (ii) assessment of the
supply and demand of M/H plants currently used by women for day-to-day health care needs in the home,
(iii) assessment of the sustainability of the wild M/I plant supply; (iv) classification of their status as to
rare, endangered, or decreasing and significance to Jordan's bio-diversity; (v) design and implementation
of guidelines for the sustainable harvesting of wild plants where cultivation is not possible; and (vi)
establishment of methods for propagation and cultivation of selected M/H plant species in home gardens
and in degraded habitats etc. to take pressure off the hotspot and provide an additional source of income.
- 47 -



Achieving such objectives would give women a greater opportunity to develop their knowledge base and
play a greater role in resource conservation and management and supplement present income generation
activities.
The expansion of arable lands (with some degradation), overgrazing, urbanization and industrialization
have resulted in senous threats to the natural habitats of M/H species. Home and field surveys would be
camed out to determine pressures on wild populations and habitats at selected community sites to better
understand community dependence on MtH plants for human and livestock health care and as an income
source.
Table 1 gives data on M/H plants collected by women at four sites run by the NHF.
Table 1. Medicinal Plant Species Collected by Women for Home Health care Needs
Species               Um Qais         Libb        Al Amir    Frequency
Matncaria aurea        D            +             +           +/S           3
Paronychia argenteaC                +              ++S                      3
Peganum harmala        C                          +/S          +/S          2
Malabadla secacul      NI          +IS            +IS          +/S          3
Gundelia tourneforti   NI          +/S            +/S           +           3
Retama raetam          C            +              +            +           3
Malva sylvestrus       NI          +/S             +            +           3
Urtuca pdlulifera      C            +              +            +           3
Salvia hierosolimitana  NI          +                           +           2
Cyclamen persicum      E                           +            +           2
Arum discorndes        NI                         +IS           +            2
Crambe onentalis       NJ          +IS             +           +/S          3
Thymus capitata        NI                 _       +IS          +IS           2
Achillea membranacea   NI           +IS            +            +            3
Foeniculum vulgare     R                          +IS          +/S           2
Globuhania arabica     NI          +/S            +/S          +IS           3
NI - not included in RSCN inventory; C - cormmon; D - decreasing; E - endangered; R - rare; S - shortage
Another activity supported by the project to relieve in-situ pressure is the ex-situ conservation and
cultivation of medicinal plant species by communities. NCARTT would give training to prospective
people who want to start nurseries. This would be part of the ex-situ sub-component. Such nursenes
would be a source of high-demand species as they are the first source of health care in the rural
communities. The micro-environments of home gardens and selected agncultural sites contain high
levels of species of a vanety of end uses: medicinal, herbs, spices and vaneties of health and nutntional
value. Also, the nursenes would be points of experimentation, introduction of new vaneties and/or
species and genetic diversity as a result of plant (germplasm) exchange and supported by social-cultural
diversity. In addition, they would be a source of supply for women wishing to expand M/H plant home
gardens or to establish large income-generating agncultural plots.
The outputs of the conservation activities for the 'hotspots' of the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift
Valley include:
o  Hotspots, and their scientific charactenstics are identified.
- 48 -



* In-situ conservation and management programs, that reflect community needs and CBD
objectives vis-a-vis the protection of bio diversity and indigenous knowledge, are implemented.
* Sustainable harvesting guidelines for in-situ high-demand M/H plant species implemented.
* Ex-situ cultivation programs established in the kitchen gardens, degraded lands and farms of the
hotspots buffer zones that reduce the pressure on wild sources in collaboration with communities
(women), NCARTT and the pnvate sector.
* New source(s) of income generation for communities, especially women.
*  Strengthened public and pnvate sector collaboration.
* Jordan's education and public awareness programs for resource management include M/H plants.
This initiative would build upon the existing knowledge of farmers, especially women by documenting
species and proposing ways to address sustainability concerns within conservation, management and
sustainable use component. The core staff implementing the activities include a Team Leader and
his/her Deputy both with knowledge of M/H species and their in-situ management, an M&E Specialist, a
Secretary and Dnvers, together with vehicles and equipment. National and international consultants will
be contracted for: hotspot identification and delineation; assisting communities with drawing up
management plans; updating socio-economic surveys of home use and medicinal plant inventones; in
collaboration with women, identifying sustainable agricultural practices, selectLon of M/H plants for
cultivation and training extension officers.  The core team, together with the PMU, will assist
commurnties in managing their hotspots. By the end of the project, at least 20 hotspots should be
managed by 20 communities containing an estimated 600 families. These areas would have been used
for demonstrating in-situ protection and management and ex-situ growing of rare and endangered species
Through production of MfH plants and products, the sites will be self-supporting and together with other
activities in the project, vibrant rural communities will be fostered.
Ex-situ Cultivation Trials
A preliminary study on the cultivation of M/H plants was undertaken as part of the preparatory phase of
this project. This focused on identifying such species that could be grown successfully under rainfed and
irrigated production systems. For the most part, the survey focused on high-demand food crops and
spices, but many of these plants also have medicinal value, albeit limuted at times. The study detailed
problems likely to be encountered in the production of threatened medicinal plant species. Consideration
was also given to ex-situ cultivation and use by local communities of rare species adjacent to the reserve
sites as well as by farmers, commercial growers and the pharmaceutical industry.
Monographs for seventy six species are included in the study providing a botanical descnption and
identifying the ecology, distribution, bio-diversity status, chemical constituents, parts collected,
medicinal and herb usage, cultivation, propagation and general comments. M/H plant species indigenous
to Jordan that have cultivation potential may be grouped into three categories: trees, shrubs and
annual/perennial herbaceous species.
Tree species are adapted to a range of mountainous and wadi areas where rainfall is sufficient for
survival. The medicinal properties of the trees have not been fully exploited, even though local people
collect parts (bark, root, leaves, fruit, seed) for health care needs or as dyes and for culnary purposes.
Reintroducing them in all parts of their natural habitats will help combat land degradation processes such
as wind and water erosion. Trees that should be considered include Ceratonia siliqua, Moringa
peregrina, Salvadora persica, and Zizpuhus spina-christi. Most of these species are tolerant to drought
conditions and provide browse for animals as do the indigenous acacia species.
Shrubs are generally well adapted to the drier areas, those receiving less than 200 mm annually. These
include Lavendula officinalis, Myrtus communis, Teucrium polium, and Peganum harmala. Most
- 49 -



provide browse for animals, improve the micro-climate and are commonly collected for their medicinal
properties. P. harmala (a M/H plant) is not palatable to animals and is widely distributed in the desert
and steppe regions. However, the most economically important M/H commercial crops cannot be grown
under such conditions without imgation. Good candidates for cultivation tnals in addition to the above
include Achilleafragrantissima, Alhaji maurorum, Capparis spinosa, and Cassia acutifolia.
Annual and perennial herbs contain many plant species that have medicinal properties and lend
themselves to cultivation. They include the following that are also identified in the M/H inventory:
Ammi visnaga, Anchusa strigosa, Capsella bursa-pastoris, Citrullis colocynthis, Ecballium elaterium,
Gundelia tournefortii, Paronychia argand impoentea, Pergularia tomentosa, Ruta chalepensis, Teucrium
polium, Urginea maritima, and Urtica pilulifera. Most of these species could be cultivated under a range
of environmental conditions. Citrullis colocynthis tolerates high temperatures, salinity and low soil pH
and could be cultivated on marginal lands. Capsella bursa-pastoris could do well in poor soils - stony or
shallow. Urtica pilulifera can be grown in high moisture soils, humid shaded areas. The cultivation
potential of Gundelia tournefortii is presently undergoing assessment regarding management properties.
Target areas for cultivation trials with emphasis on rainfed sites include: the sub-tropical environments of
the Jordan Valley slopes and the temperate highlands. High rainfall areas with land slopes less than 9%
are deemed more suitable for annual species cultivation. HILgh rainfall areas with slopes more than 9%
could be used for trees and shrubs. Drier areas receiving low rainfall and where water harvesting is
possible should favor trees and herbaceous species.
The number of M/H plants currently being commercially cultivated is relatively small. In 2000, seven
crops were cultivated on 337 ha. with garlic occupying 50% of the land and parsley 39%. The number of
plants cultivated for their M/H properties are also relatively small. Both categories rely primarily on
irrigation. In low rainfall areas water harvesting offers opportunities for cultivation and added income
(EU funded study). Herbal species (e.g. oregano, sage and mnt) with high water requirements that
cannot be met by rainfall alone and plants (e.g. medicinal) adapted to marginal, low rainfall areas would
benefit from water harvesting. In addition, as gathered from anecdotal evidence, many women grow
M/H plants in kitchen gardens for home consumption and for local trading.
Needs for the transfer of applied research and technology are considerable. At present it is restricted to
the MOA through NCARTT, the Noor Al Hussein Foundation and individual enterpnsing farmers (men
and women) who see the potential to diversify the cropping systems and generate additional income.
There is an urgent need for intensive, systematic applied research to identify sustainable cultivation
practices for optimum production. Success will be enhanced by good research applications and
technology transfer. Collaboration at the community, national and intemational levels is essential to the
success of the cultivation phase of the project. Activities that need to be addressed include: crop
adaptation, management, integrated pest management, tissue culture, crop improvement, hybridization,
organic farming, post harvest operations, use of treated waste water, salinity toleration, drought
tolerance, water use efficiency and social studies, etc.
Activities under the ex-situ component
To relieve pressure in-situ, two types of tnals will be tested under this sub-component: ex-situ farming
demonstrations, and pilot-prototype farm demonstrations.
- 50 -



Ex-situ Farming Demonstrations
Based on the results of the Socio-economic Survey undertaken during the PDF-B phase, villagers/farmers
will be identified for on-farm pilot propagation and cultivation tnals of M/H plants to remove pressure on
wild populations. Tnals will also be carned out at 5 NCARTT stations. This should include pilot
cultivation tnals of threatened, rare and high demand M/H plants used for human and livestock health
care, culinary purposes and even species used by the cosmetic industry. The stations will also act as
sources of planting materials for M/H stock NCARTT field station personnel will assist communities
and individuals in their establishment and management.
Pilot-Prototype Farm Demonstrations at ECOHERB Farms of Jordan (EFJ)
The transfer of NCARTT's knowledge base as further developed by EFJ, based on its own knowledge
bank and continuous research at its prototype farm, will be instrumental in providing incentives to MIH
plants farmers. The project will support demonstrations in this pilot-prototype farm in implementing the
following strategy to develop the ex-situ cultivation tnals in Jordan:
*  The screening process for the M/H plants to be cultivated in the ex-situ farms will be developed.
. In order to encourage the adoption of sound environmental practices, Integrated Pest
Management (1PM) and nitrogen fixing plants will be promoted and organic farming will be
encouraged. Standards will be used for the dosage and punty of Mil plants and these will
comply with international norms. Potential ex-situ farms will be identified for organic practices
and if they meet all the cntena will be certified as organic farms . These farms will serve as
prototypes for future expansion of organic farming practices for M/H plants. EFJ will also lobby
and assist in developing quality benchmarks for vanous indigenous M/H plants. The objective
will be to equate Jordanian ex-situ M/H plants with the connotation of high quality and specific
standards, thereby enhancing the protection of in-situ plants.
*  A label will be developed for organic quality products for Jordan so as to contnbute to the
sustainability of the protection of in-situ plants by limiting harvesting and processing to ex-situ
sites.
* A prototype contract-farming model to standardize the relationship between the growers and EFJ
will be developed. This will contnbute to propagating threatened M/H plants outside the in-situ
areas.
*  Stakeholders in the M/H plants sector will be trained on the ground in environmentally-friendly
techniques and procedures so as to conform to European cultivation and processing standards.
* The level of progress of the ex-situ cultivation will be monitored and evaluated. Corrective
measures will be taken as necessary.
NCARTT's expenence in herbal (with medicinal value) cultivation which started in 1996 with the
Initiative to Combat Desertification will be instrumental in implementing the ex-situ sub-component.
Herbal plants were identified that could contnbute to the control of natural resource degradation, and
where applicable, to restore productivity. This involved the identification of in-situ species and their
ex-situ cultivation by farmers. Research tnals and demonstrations were conducted to test and verify the
suitability of cultivation and management practices for the most proiusing herbal species. The
demonstrations were also used for training and technology transfer purposes. A best-practice package
was developed for 6 herb field crops (cumin, black cumin, fenugreeeki, anise, caraway and fennel).
Between 1997/98 and 2001/02 the land under cultivation increased from 4 ha to 243 ha, farmer
participation rose from 5 to 19 and average area per crop/farmer increased from 2 to 4 ha. No production
figures are available.
- 51 -



NCARTT started cultivation trials under rainfed conditions with vanous MI/H species at their research
station at Madaba (Mashaqar). The objective was, and still is, to demonstrate cost effective and
profitable cultivation methods for various high-demand species that can be grown by farmers as
alternatives to the traditional grain and fodder crops. It is proposed to expand these demonstrations and
tnals to five NCARTT research stations, covenng different agro-climatic zones. These are as follows
(Table 2).
Table 2. NCARTT Field Stations for Ex-situ Demonstrations
Growing
Station       Zone       conditions  Soil type    Area of Stations (ha)
Mushaqar Upland          Rainfed     Alkaline              120
Maru      Upland         Rainfed     Alkaline              100
Rabba     Upland         Rainfed     Alkaline               60
Gohr Safi Jordan valley  Irrigation  Saline                 20
Khaldeah  Steppe/desert  Irigation   Saline                 40
These stations will serve as demonstration sites for farmers. Annual courses will be run each year on
nursery practice and seed multiplication, establishment, tending and protection, harvesting, storage and
production and business practice. In addition, farm visits will be organized. NCARTT will also advise
the in-situ sub-component farmers and garden owners on cultivation tending and harvesting techniques.
The core staff would include the following NCARTT staff: 3 agronomists, 1-2 irrigation specialists and
1-2 plant breeders along with consultants and the EFJ pilot farm manager. The five stations will be
provided with vehicles, equipment and matenals needed to successfully demonstrate the cultivation of
M/H plants for a penod of five years. Equipment will also be provided though NCARTT to the pilot
farm. Over the course of these five years, it is estimated that many M/H species will have been
successfully grown at the stations and EFJ and out-grown in fields and gardens. Training courses will be
given to farmers and community leaders for ex-situ M/H production and in-situ management, etc., and
site visits will be made to the five stations and farmers who are growing M/H plants. Also, individual
women are an essential resource if viable cultivation practices are to be researched and implemented.
Women have considerable knowledge regarding the sources of wild species, their ecology, good
harvesting practices and use and should be involved at all stages of the development and implementation
process. They have already shown their abilities to utilize micro-credit to establish small household
income generating activities by cultivating high-demand herbal species. Thus, their participation in all
aspects of M/l plant cultivation is essential to project success and sustainability.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.25 million
Public Awareness and Education. (US$1.25 m- GEF US$0.34 m)
This component consists of two sub-components: environmental education and public awareness of M/H
plants. Environmental education aims at introducing state-of the-art knowledge about M/H plants in
formal and informal education. Public awareness will focus on providing knowledge on the role and
importance of M/H plants in the conservation and community development agenda of Jordan.
- 52 -



Environmental Education
This sub-component will examine how information about M/H plants and their environment can be
included in the formal education curricula of schools and universities and the informal education
programs for communities, etc. Consultants will be engaged to look into curricula development and
work closely with the Departments of Education and Higher Education under MOE. Once the cumcula
is approved there will be training courses for trainers, who in turn will train teachers. Publications and
equipment will be prepared for schools, universities and communities and M/H planting matenals will be
distnbuted to schools and communities so that they can raise them in the school garden or at village
centers, etc.
Public Awareness
Training. As mentioned previously under the ex-situ sub-component, training courses will be provided
to farmers and community leaders on the growing, harvesting and processing of M/H plants and their
CDD products. Training will include management of in-situ M/H sites. The role of NGOs, especially
women NGOs, is critical if M/H plants protection and cultivation is to be implemented, thus NGOs will
be included in the training program. Also, farm visits will be arranged throughout the lifetime of the
project so that potential and actual growers of M/H plants can see at first hand these plants being grown
and processed. Over the life of the project, at least 1,200 farmers (including women) will have benefited
from training courses at the five NCARTT stations; 340 trainers will have been given intensive training
courses and 1,800 farmer will have visited 60 areas. In addition, information and matenals, especially
seeds and planting stock, will be made available to farmers throughout the country.
Knowledge Sharing. To keep farmers, communities, NGOs, the media and other interested parties
informed about the project, information pamphlets, posters, press releases and articles, etc. will be
produced. Video documentaries will be made on all aspects of the project which will be viewed in
community centers and schools. Information on the project will be made available through the project's
website which will be updated frequently.
Project Component 4 - US$3.50 million
Income Generation Activities: M/IH Quality Enhancement and Product Development (US$3.5 m -
GEF US$0)
This component focuses on income generation and will provide mainly local and national benefits.
Without it, it is doubtful whether the protection of globally important Mil plants would be effective,
especially in the long run. This component has three sub-components: Standardization of M/H plant raw
materials and processing, income generation through product development and promotion, and
facilitating credit for income generating activities.  These sub-components will include the following
activities:
Organic Farming Certification. All M/H plants collected from the wild are grown under natural
conditions without the addition of herbicides, pesticides or chemical fertilizers. Indeed, the only
nutrients that are added come from those dissolved in the rainfall or from animal droppings Again,
most if not all ex-situ production of MIH plants has no application of pesticides or herbicides, but
some chemical fertilizers may have been added, although the application of organic fertilizers is
more likely, if fertilizers are added at all. Thus, products made from M/H plants such as essential
oils, spices, herbs and medicines can be said to be from organically grown products. Such products
should command a higher price, both within Jordan and on the export market. Therefore, one thrust
of this component is to examine how Jordan can certify M/H products that are organically grown in
- 53 -



line with the standards established by GOJ under Component 1. International consultants will be
engaged to study the certification requirements of the European Union (especially Germany) and the
USA, the two principal markets for organically grown products. A technical committee will first
advise the consultants and then determine the steps to take to undertake the certification process, if
feasible. It is envisaged that the technical committee, compnsing about 12 people from all
interested parties, will hold bi-monthly meetings over a three-year penod beginning in 2003.
o  Standards for M/H Plants for Harvested Products. In order to enhance the harvested products
and semi-processing, there should be uniform standards concerning collection, cleaning, permissible
foreign bodies, grading, packaging and trading. If such standards are adopted by the growers and
packers, then Jordanian grown M/l plants could be traded on the national and international markets
with a guarantee of quality. National and international consultants will be appointed to examine this
aspect and make recommendations to a technical commrttee. This technical conuruttee will compnse
of about 12 people with representatives from all interested parties and meet bi-monthly over a
three-year penod beginning in 2003.
O  Processing Standards for M/Hl Plant Manufactured Products. As with the proposed standards
for harvested products, there should be standards for manufactured products from MiH plants. A
similar technical committee of about 12 members will be established to advise on product standards
National and international consultants will be hired to examine standards in Jordan and abroad and
will make recommendations to the committee. It is envisaged that this committee will meet
bi-monthly over a three-year penod beginning in 2003.
O  Quality Control of M/H Plant Products. In order to maintain the quality of M/H products,
especially for essential oils and ingredients for medicines, etc,. it is necessary to have an independent
laboratory to monitor products and ingredients so that they conform to the established standards. A
national consultant will investigate standards and recommendations will be made to a technical
committee, again composed of about 12 people, meeting bi-monthly over a three-year penod
beginning in 2004. An independent laboratory, (perhaps located in a university) will be furmished
with the necessary equipment and consumables so that it will be able to test products. Those
submitting samples for testing will have to pay for the service, but the initial capital cost of
equipment plus consumables for four years will be provided by a donor or donors. This quality
control laboratory will meet international standards and be in a position to issue certificates for
chemical and products that are in conformity with the set standards.
o Product Development. Product development should be an essential part of expanding the market
for M/H plants and their products. Thus, it is proposed to engage national and international
consultants to look into all aspects of product development and to advise a technical committee on
the possibilities for developing new products or enhancing existing ones. The technical committee
will compnse of about 12 people and meet bi-monthly for the duration of the project. It will work
closely with the other committees especially the one on marketing, descnbed later.
O  Market Identification. An essential part of promoting M/H plants and their products is to have
up-to-date market information and to investigate new markets for M/H products both nationally and
internationally. National consultants will be employed throughout the lifetime of the project to
undertake market identification and collect market information. International consultants will be
engaged for the first two years of the project to provide reports on international opportunities. As
mentioned previously under Product Development, it is hoped to forge links with the M/H plant
sector in China, Europe, South Africa and the USA (and other countnes) in order to promote M/H
- 54 -



plant products from Jordan. A technical committee of 12 people will meet bi-monthly over the
lifetime of the project to advise on all aspects of marketing and market intelligence.
*  Facilitating Access to Microcredit. Obtaining credit for income generating activities is vital,
especially for the disadvantaged who have little, if any, collateral as a loan security. Cooperative
arrangements with on-going initiatives that provide microcredit to the poor, including the Enhanced
Productivity Program of the Socio-Economrc Development Programme, King Abdullah II
Foundation, and USAID's Jordanian-US Business Partnerships, will be explored.
- 55 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million   US $million   US $million
Institutional Strengthening                                 1.67          0.73          2.40
Pilot Sites Conservation                                    5.35          1.16          6 51
Public Awareness and Education                              1.06          0.02          1.08
Income Generation Activities                                3.50          0.00          3.50
Total Baseline Cost                                        11.58          1.91         13.49
Physical Contingencies                                     0.21          0.03          0.24
Price Contingencies                                        0.42          0.06          0.48
Total Project Costs               12.21          2.00         14.21
Total Financing Required               12.21          2.00         14.21
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million   US $million   US $million
Land Acquisition                                              0.06           0.00         0.06
Works                                                         0.18           0.06          0.24
Goods                                                         0.42           0.95          1.37
Consultants/Studies/Training                                  4.06           0.95          5.01
Recurrent Costs (incremental)                                 0.12           0.04         0.16
Recurrent Costs (other)                                       3.87           0.00          3.87
Income Generation Activities                                  3.50           0.00          3.50
Total Project Costs      12.21           2.00         14.21
Total Financing Required      12.21           2.00         14.21
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 14 21 (US$m) Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 35 19%
of total project cost net of taxes
- 56 -



Annex 4: Incremental Cost Analysis
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
A. Introduction
An incremental cost analysis of the activities for which incremental funding is requested from GEF has
been camed out. The overall context and broad development goals is descnbed below under section B,
while the baseline is descnbed in section C. Section D illustrates the alternative course of action for
which funding from GEF and other donors is requested. In section E, the comparison of baseline and
alternative activities is carred out broken down according to the project sub-components.  An
incremental costs matrix is presented in section F.
B. Context and Broad Development Goals
The potential in terms of conservation and sustainable use of globally significant M/H plants in Jordan is
significant. Jordan's flora is considered nch and diverse, being at the junction of three continents,
Europe, Asia and Africa. Al-Eisawi (1985) indicated the presence of four bio-geographical regions and
thirteen vegetation types. The flora of Jordan is rich in M/H plants, mainly the Umbelliferae, Labiatae
and Compositae. Many of them grow in sub-series or successional communities in vanous states of
development or degradation, and are adapted to and or semi-arid conditions. M/H plants in Jordan are
distnbuted throughout the country from the eastern desert to the western highlands and from the semiand
north to the extremely and south. Local people have recognized the importance of these plants as a
source of M/iH products since time immemonal. A few studies related to the identification of endemi-c,
rare and endangered species have been camed out in Jordan on all flora An estimated 100 species of
endemic plants comprising about 2.5 percent of the total flora are recognized. A total of 485 species of
M/H plants, which belong to 330 genera and 99 families, is reported from Jordan (Oran and Al-Eisawi,
1994). The identified plants are herbs, shrubs or trees. Under the PDF - Block B Grant an inventory of
M/H plants in five sites representative of most of the vegetation types in Jordan revealed 94 species of
medicinal value. Three species were found to be endangered (Cyclamen persicum, Moringa peregrina,
Salvadora pesica), five rare (Ankyropetalum gypsophiloides, Foeniculum vulgare, Gomphocarpus
sinaicus, Pergularia tomentosa, Rheum palaestinum, eight decreasing in abundance (A rum dioscorides,
A. hygrophyllum, Ceratonia siliqua, Crataegus aronia, Majorana syriaca, Matricaria aurea, Mentha
longifolia, Nasturtium officinalis), one endemic (Rheum palaestinum) and one extinct (Salvia triloba).
The remaining seventy six species were considered common, although an increasing number are coming
under threat. An earlier survey by the Royal Society of Conservation of Nature in one proposed project
area (Mujib Nature Reserve) indicated the presence of rare species like Adiantum capillus-veneris,
Sternbergia clusiana, Pistacia atlantica, Caralluma aaronis, Pergularia tomentosa, Equisetum
ramosissimum, Crocus moabiticus, Micromeria sinaica (endemic; also on IUCN list), Teucrium
leucocladum, Ajuga chamaepytis, A. iva, Lavandula pubescens, Withania somnifera (new to the area).
Endemic species in the Mujib Nature Reserve include Withania obtusifolia, Micromeria sinaica, and
Crocus moabiticus.
One of the major difficulties of assessing the importance of M/H plants and developing a strategy for
their conservation and sustainable use is the lack of hard facts about which species have medicinal value,
their detailed distnbution, how they are collected or harvested, which species are cultivated and where,
what are the quantities involved in collection, consumption, and trade, etc. Trade statistics are utnreliable
as is the identity of the matenal traded under such names as oregano, covenng plants belonging to more
than one genus and several species. Some countnes such as Spain have produced reasonable detailed
assessments of the uses and trade in medicinal and aromatic plants. A review of surveys for other
- 57 -



Mediterranean countries, prepared under the auspices of the MEDUSA organization, as part of data
gathenng on wild regional species of potential value for sustainable use may provide examples of good
practices.
The sector is undergoing major changes. On one hand the demand for M/H plants and their extracts for
domestic use in Jordan is increasing and is satisfied either through over harvesting of wild plants, a little
cultivation or by imports. The latter amounts to about US$6 mnllion per year with exports about US$0.4
million annually.
C. Baseline Scenario
Under the baseline course of action, very few activities in Jordan exist that focus specifically on the
conservation and sustainable use of M/H plants. While the legislative framework for biodiversity
conservation has been defined in the context of Environmental Law No. 12 of 1995, and of the Jordan
Country Biodiversity Study, prior to the proposed project, there was no capacity at the national level to
address needed institutional strengthening, capacity building, improving awareness and fosterng pnvate
sector or NGOs and research institutes to promote and implement the conservation of M/H plants.
Therefore, the baseline scenario will result in extremely limited conservation of MM/H plants or
strengthening of national capacity to address conservation and sustainable use issues in a coordinated and
systematic approach.
A few small-scale related activities are worth mentioning in terms of contribution to the baseline
scenano, namely the Germplasm for And Lands Program (GALP), ongoing research on germplasm and
ex-site conservation by NCARTT, RSCN nature conservation program and the micro Medicinal Herbs
Agn-Enterpnse Project (MHAEP) of the Noor Al Hussein Foundation.
Germplasm for Arid Lands Program (GALP)
This program is supported by the Regional Desertificatton Initiative of which the objective is to identify
and evaluate indigenous and exotic species of plants for and areas, evaluate their economic and
environmental potential and promote the establishment of a more biologically diversified and productive
plant resource base for farming systems in the region. Activities under the program have, however, been
limited to carrying out very small experimental field tnals for all plant species on yield improvement,
cultivation under plastic house conditions, impact of mulching on arak, mellisa and roselle, and
financing scholarships. Extension work in cultivation of M/H plants is non-existent. Under Phase II of
the Desertification Initiative, the focus will be on regional knowledge shanng, while the GALP program
will focus on the formulation of national strategies through planning workshops to control desertification
as the basis for identifying a regional strategy. Hence, there will be virtually no attention paid to
sustainable use of M/H plants in Jordan.
NCAR7T Germplasm and Ex-situ Cultivation Research
NCARTT has implemented very small ex-situ cultivation tnals and related research in 6 M/H plant
species, and it is expected that this will continue, albeit with limited funding. Given the budget
constraints, it is not expected that NCARTT will expand the scope of its activities in sustainable use of
Ml/H plants.
- 58 -



RSCN Nature Conservation Program
RSCN will continue to implement its mandate to manage the nature reserves and protected areas. This
will have positive, although limrted, impact on the status and conservation of endangered flora, including
M/H plants in the selected project sites. However, RSCN has no independent resources to carry out the
much needed baseline surveys, market assessments, socio-economic surveys and targeted in-situ
conservation activities related to M/H plants.
NHF Medicinal Herbs Agri-Enterprise Project (MHAEP)
This micro program was established in 1989 to integrate women in rural development, create
employment, turn home gardens into small-scale enterpnses, preserve medicinal and aromatic plants and
support women as decision makers. One initial target site, Bani Kenanah, is managed in cooperation with
the local community and several Jordanian universities. Expenence has been gained in engaging women
as entrepreneurs in production and marketing of M/H plants and supporting their role in traditional health
care, with 440 women having received technical training, and another 1800 obtained indirect benefit.
The MNHAEP will continue to have a positive, although limited, impact in terms of establishing
sustainable use mechanisms within local communities. It has the potential, through the project, of being
scaled up.
D. Alternative Scenario
With the introduction of the GEF alternative, a set of complementary as well as substitutional activities
would be implemented to ensure that global environmental benefits are attained. The GEF alternative
will build on the baseline scenano to (i) establish a framework for M/H plant biodiversity conservation
and management, (ii) strengthening institutions and implementing a coordination program between
relevant agencies and stakeholders, (iii) promoting in-situ conservation and sustainable use of M/H plant
species in 2 pilot sites, and (iv) designing and implementing a public awareness and conservation of M/H
plants education strategy.
The support of GEF will also ensure that lessons learned in this project can be replicated in other areas in
similar agro-climatic zones within Jordan and in the region. In particular, the demonstration of successful
partnerships between GOJ, private sector and local communities in the conservation and management of
M/H plant resources for economic benefits can be of value for other natural resources and economic
sectors in the country. At the local level and in the pilot sites, the communities will build on traditional
knowledge to benefit from education/awareness and training programs that link the value of sustainable
resource management to improved income opportunities. This will hopefully lead to project initiatives
being extended beyond the pilot areas into other potential sites in Jordan. At the national and regional
level, the development of appropriate legislation, particularly with regard to IPR policy and guidelines
for indigenous knowledge will provide the foundation for further efforts in M/H plant conservation
programs in Jordan and could be replicated in other countries in the region where IPR issues of
traditional knowledge are yet to be addressed. The initiatives of the project will be documented through
videos, articles, newsletters, by the GEF and the Bank and other communication channels. It is therefore
anticipated that the project will have a large replicability potential.
E. Incremental Costs
The baseline and GEF alternative are described below according to the four project sub-components in
order to estimate the incremental costs for which funding from GEF and other donors will be requested.
- 59 -



(a) Institutional StrenRthening (Baseline Cost: US$0.05 m. Alternative Cost by GEF. US$1.95 m.
Non-GEF Incremental Cost: US$0.54 m)
The main thrust of this component in the baseline scenano would be to continue with on-going
micro-fragmented programs with no dissemnation of results Under the basehne, lack of institutional
capacity, information and incentive structures will provide a bamer to the efficient management of
Mil plant resources.
The GEF alternative will provide the nucleus for tistitutional coordination through establishing
crucial inter-sectoral links and regulatory instruments. Through the development of proper policies
and guidelines, the establishment of standards, safety and efficacy testing, and the provision of
formal and informal training to various stakeholder groups, an environment of improved access to
information and knowledge will be created; thereby promoting partnerships and enhancing the
capacity within GOJ, pnvate sector and local communities for the establishment of sustainable
management set-ups for MiH plant conservation. The main global environmental benefits include
increased knowledge on the status of key globally significant species and potential for propagation
through the establishment of the M/H plant database and gene bank.
(b) Pilot Sites Conservation (Baseline Cost: US$0.15 m. Alternative Cost by GEF. US$2.71 m.
Non-GEF Incremental Cost: US$4.06 m)
In situ conservation and sustainable use of M/H plants
No baseline activities are envisaged under this component, since conservation of MfH plants would
not have been considered a pnonty in the current on-going nature conservation programs in view of
limited funding capacity.
In the GEF alternative, substantial global benefits are anticipated from implementing the different
activities aimed at improved site management for conservation purposes. These activities include:
improving scientific understanding of M/H plants, the design and enforcement of a protection
strategy, development of community based support programs, development and implementation of
outreach & educational programs, implementation of capacity building programs and identifying
hotspots. Grazing arrangements with local communities, water catchment and harvesting measures
and shrub planting to reduce erosion will all contnbute to improved soil fertility and increased
species occurrence and density. A monitoring program will be developed for each of the two in-situ
pilot sites to track the changes in status of key indicative species and the results will be disseminated
and potentially replicated in other possible sites in the country.
Ex-situ cultivation trials
The objectives of this sub-component are to demonstrate cost-effective and profitable cultivation
methods for vanous high demand M/H plant species that can be reproduced by the farmers in order
to protect the in-situ M/l plants from over-harvesting. The baseline activities of demonstration are
limited to a maximum of I hectare and the extent of dissemination of research and tnal results
confined to the few demonstration plots and involved farmers through NCARTT.
Through the GEF alternative. ex-situ plots will be extended and expanded to enable farmers from all
over Jordan and beyond to see the sites and appreciate the various techniques. Pilot prototype
demonstration farms will also be established in partnership with the pnvate sector. Mass media
initiatives will be promoted to ensure that information dissemrnation is maximized, and will be
linked to the activities under Component 3 - Public Awareness below. Promotion of organic
cultivation techniques to increase quality standards and competitiveness will also be included under
- 60 -



GEF support of selected ex-situ farms. These activities will assist in propagating threatened M/H
plants outside the in-situ areas and providing alternative livelihood sources and sustainable use
mechanisms that alleviate the pressure off the wild varieties.
(c) Public Awareness and Education (Baseline Cost: US$0.02 mnillion, Alternative Cost by GEF:
US$0.34 mrllion. Non-GEF Incremental Cost: US$0.89 mnllion)
The objectives of public awareness and education programs under the baseline scenario will focus on
the provision of general messages to the public regarding conservation issues, natural resources
management and the value of nature reserves.
Under the GEF alternative, it will be possible to develop and deliver targeted messages and matenals
on M/H plants as a significant resource for the country. Activities under this component will provide
the necessary support and dissemination channel through extension work, training courses for
farmers and teachers, demonstrations, farm visits and environmental education in schools for the in-
and ex-situ cultivation activities under Component 2 above. These activities will ensure that in the
long run ,sufficient public support is generated for the sustainable conservation of these resources.
(d) Income GeneratinR Activities: M/H Plant Ouality Enhancement. Product Development (Baseline
Cost:
US$0.00 m. Alternative Cost by GEF: US$0.00 m. Non-GEF Cost: US$3.50 m)
While the activities under this component will also accrue potential global benefits by providing
incentive mechanisms for the conservation and sustainable use of M/H plants, it is envisaged that
funding for the component activities will not be provided by GEF but from GOJ, other donors and/or
the pnvate sector.
F. Incremental Cost Matrix
As explained above, the incremental costs of the alternative scenano were denved according to each of
the project components. These costs and the domestic and global environmental benefits are displayed in
the following matnx:
- 61 -



Component Sector    Cost Category    US$ m              Domestic Benefits                    Global Benefits
Institutional     Baseline            0 05    Ongoing traditional agricultural initiatves. Some protection of germ plasm. Minimal
strengthening and                                                                  improvement to sustainable use of M/H
collaboration                                                                      plants
GEF Incremental      1 95   Demand driven (vis-dl-vis current supply  Enhanced information shanng and
driven) applied research and technical  ncreased public sector capacity to manage
capacity of relevant GOJ and          biodiversity and sustainable management
non-governmental institutions. Training for of M/H plants
beneficianes. NGOs to identify and conserve
M/H plants.
Additional non-GEF  0 54
incremental costs
Pilot Sites        Baseline             0.15   M/H plants are over-harvested.        Limuted conservation of M/H plants as
Conservation                                                                         part of more general on-going nature
eserve programs.
GEF Incremental     2 71    Two in-situ sites protected and managed  Pressure relieved from vulnerable global
sustainably Used as models for other sites M/H species over the long term, gene
Increased collection and analysis of  ools of global M/H plants maintained
information vital for conserving      nd sustained, agro-biodiversity
endemic/rare fauna Ex-situ production of  reserved, long-term capacity and
M/H plants and products. Increased   awareness for biodiversity established at
opportunities for income generation in rural  e community level Sustainable
communities Management plans for      roduction of M/H plants increased
sustainable land use, decreased erosion and  mproved quality and quantity of water
improved water harvesting             nto Jordan Valley - some increase in
carbon sequestration.
Additional non-GEF  4 06
ncremental costs
Public Awareness and Baseline           0 02   Some environmental training, but lacking  Increased public knowledge of general
Education                                      focus on M/H concerns Minor public    environmental concerns
awareness through existing conservation.
GEF Incremental     0.34    Increased information sharing and public  Increased public and private awareness of
awareness concernig the importance of  lobally significant biodiversity and the
biodiversity, specifically MIH plant  importance of M/H plants
education.
Additzonal non-GEF  0.89
incremental costs
MWH income         Baseline             0 00   Some private activities and farm trials with Negative benefit due to over-harvesting
generation etc.                                limuted production capacity and
competitiveness
GEF Incremental     0 00    Improved quality and quantity of products  Sustainable production leads to increased
from sustainable supply and resulting  management and sustainable use of M/H
increased income opportunities        lants and increased conservation of
in-situ M/H plants of global importance
Addizonal non-GEF    3.5
costs
Total              GEF incremental      5 35   Total GEF input US$5.35 million including
US$0 350 mullion for PDF-B
Total                                   14.56
- 62 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
Years Ending
Year 1    Year 2     Year 3    Year 4     Year 5    Year 6         7 Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           2.6        2.4       1.9        1.6       1.5       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.7        0.8        0.8       0.9       1.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          3.3        3.2       2.7       2.5        2.5       0.0       0.0
Total Financing              3.3        3.2       2.7       2.5        2.5       0.0       0.0
Financing,
IBRD/IDA                   0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                0.7        0.6        0.7       0.7       0.8       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-flnanclersMOP/EPP       0.7       0.7        0.7       0.7        0.7      0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0        0.1       0.0       0.1        0.0       0.0       0.0
GEF                          1.3        1.5       1.0        0.6       0.6       0.0       0.0
RSCN                         0.2        0.2       0.2        0.3       0.3      0.0        0.0
EFJ                          0.4        0.1       0.1       0.1        0.1       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     3.3        3.2       2.7        2.5       2.5       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
N/A
- 63 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
Procurement
Procurement arrangements:
Organization: Procurement activities will be undertaken by the PMU, which will be based in the EPP
Directorate in the MOP. The PMU would comprise an expenenced Procurement Specialist (PS) who
will also be a qualified FMS, combining these functions. He/she will be recruited into the project under
TORs acceptable to the Bank. The PS/FMS will be familiar with procurement under Bank-financed
projects and will constitute adequate capacity to carry out procurement activities foreseen under the GEF
project. He/she will be responsible for preparing the procurement plans for the project, with annual plans
proposed each year by March 31 beginning 2003 and for carrying out procurement action.
Consulting services and training:
A number of consulting services contracts will be awarded under the project, following IBRD Guidelines
for Selection and Employment of Consultants dated January 1997 and revised May 2002. Contracts with
individual consultants above US$50,000 and consulting firms above US$100,000 will be subject to prior
review by the Bank. Short lists of consulting firms may comprise entirely national consultants for
estimated contract values below US$100,000 equivalent:
(a) PMU; staff of the PMU (Manager, Procurement/Financial Specialist, M&E/Training, Local M/H
Specialist and International M/H Specialist) will be recruited as individual consultants.
(b) Foreign Training: using the Consultant Qualification (CQ) method, three small contracts with
foreign consulting firms or technical institutions will be awarded for training outside Jordan.
(c) National Training: using selection under fixed budget (SFB) method, 10 small contracts will be
awarded using this method as well as several individual consultants selected to carry out special
training activities. There will also be some applied research grants for graduate students selected
though competition.
(d) The selection process for consulting firms will be based on SFB or CQ methods.
(e) Certain studies will be camed out by consulting firns using the SFB method.
Individual Consultants: (short term): The project provides US$749,600 for short-term consultants who
are expected to be selected on an international basis competitively.
Individual Consultants (long term): The project provides US$2.04 mllion for long-term consultants, who
are expected to be selected on a national basis competitively.
All selections of individual consultants will follow the provision of Section V of the Bank's Consultant
Guidelnes.
Goods and Equipment: Vehicles will all be procured from UN LAPSO (14 vehicles at an aggregate
value of US$280,000). Services such as telephone and e-mail charges will have a threshold of
US$15,000 annually and US$75,000 in aggregate and procured through a sole source local provider.
Agricultural equipment will be packaged together to the extent possible and procured under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures for all contract values above US$100,000 up to an aggregate
amount of US$459,100.  Small quantities of agricultural equipment, estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount of US$150,000 will be procured through
-64 -



National/International Shopping (NS/IS) according to paras. 3.5 and 3.6 of the guidelines. Procurement
of office and laboratory equipment (approximately US$79,000) will be procured through the National
Shopping (NS) method.
Small Works: This item includes mainly construction of small buildings for packing and grading, outlets
for local products and water harvesting works for the RSCN component and will be procured through the
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) method. Contract values will be in the range of US$30,000 -
US$50,000 with an aggregate amount of US$156,000.
Incremental Operating Costs: Estimated at US$150,000, this item includes expenditures incurred by
the PMU, NCARTT and RSCN in connection with carrying out the project. It covers office furmiture and
supplies, audit costs and local transportation, but excludes salanes of officials of the Recipient's civil
service
Prior Review: All contracts for goods above US$100,000 and the first three contracts for works, goods
and services, irrespective of the contract amount, shall be subject to pnor review by the Bank. Contracts
with consulting firms above US$100,000 and with individuals above US$50,000 shall be subject to prior
review. All other contracts shall be subject to post review dunng Bank supervision rrussions.
Reserved Procurement with GOJ: Reserved procurement under the project estimated at US$1,000,000
will be camed out according to section 1.12 of the "Procurement Guidelines under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" dated January 1995 and revised January 1999, and to section 1.17 of "Guidelines Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised May 2002. The
PIP would provide details for this reserved procurement which would be finalized and agreed upon
dunng project negotiations.
Procurement Plan
Package No.    Component/Description  Estimated  Procurement   Date of    Date of       Indicative
of Services/Goods     Cost        Method      Advert.    Award        Completion/
(US$1000)                                         Delivery Date
A. Equipment
A.1           14 Vehicles (PMU,       235.1    UNDP IAPSO       05/03     08/03           10/03
NCARTT, & RSCN)
A.2           Office Equipment (PMIU,  68.7     NCB             05/03      07/03         08/03
NCARTT, & RSCN)
A.3           Laboratory equipment     16 8    NCB              05/03     08/03          10/03
(NCARTT)
A.4           Field equipment         407.6    ICB/IS/NS        06/03      11/03         02/04
(NCARTT & RSCN)
A.5           Office Furmiture (RSCN)  4 9     NS               06/03     08/03          09/03
B. Consultant
Services
B.1 Individual
Consultant
BPI'1         PMU                    1,521.8   Individual       02/03     06/03          05/08
Consultant
B.1.2         Mujib Nature Reserve    490.1    Individual       06/03      10/03         05/08
Consultant
B.1.3         Central Upper Slopes of  334.4   Individual       06/03      10/03         05/08
the Rift Valley                   Consultant
- 65 -



B.1.4          Ex-situ                  321.4     Individual       07/03       11/03           05/08
Consultant
B.1.5          Ex-situ: Pilot prototype  155.4    Individual       07/03       12/03           12/05
farn                                Consultant
B.1.6          Public Awareness &        10.6      Individual       01/04      03/04           03/05
Education                           Consultant
B.2. Consultant
firms/ Studies
B.2.1          Central Upper Slopes of   106.7     SFB              08/03      11/03           05/08
the Rift Valley
B.2.2          Mujib Nature Reserve      177.3     SFB              07/03      10/03           05/08
B.3. National
Training
B.3.1          PMU                       153.0     SFB/Individual   10/03      02/04           05/08
Consultant
B.3.2          PMU -Applied Research     111.7     Other            09/03                      05/08
Grants
B.3.3          Mujib Nature Reserve      92.2      SFB/Individual   10/03                      05/08
Consultant
B.3.4          Public Awareness &       224.8      SFB/Individual   11/03                      05/08
Education                           Consultant
B.4. Foreign
Training
B.4.1          PMU                       49.9      Consultant       09/03                      05/08
Qualification
(CQ)
C. Civil Works
C1             RSCN                      155.7     NCB               08/03       11/03         06/04
D. Operational    PMUlJ                     150       Others            06/03       06/03         06/08
Cost
- 66 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
tExpenditure-Category              IC1               NCB           Other          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                                0.00             0.16           0.00           0.08         0.24
(0.00)            (0.16)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.16)
2. Goods                                0.40             0.17            0.28          0.46         1.31
(0.40)            (0.17)         (0.28)         (0.00)       (0.85)
3. Services                             0.00             0.00            3.92          1.15         5.07
Consultant/StudiesfTraining            (0.00)            (0.00)         (3.92)         (0.00)       (3.92)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00             0.00            0.07          7.52         7.59
(0.00)            (0.00)         (0.07)         (0.00)       (0.07)
Total                                0.40             0.33            4.27          9.21         14.21
(0.40)            (0.33)         (4.27)         (0.00)      (5.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, applied research grants and
incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local GOJ units.
- 67 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB    LCS      Co     Other   N.B.F. Total'Cost'
A. Firms              0.00    0.00    0.50   0.00     0.04    0.05    0.00     0.59
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.50)  (0.00)  (0.04)  (0.05)  (0.00)  (0.59)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00    3.33    1.15     4.48
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (3.33)  (0.00)   (3.33)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.04    3.38    1.15     5.07
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.50)  (0.00)  (0.04)  (3.38)  (0.00)   (3.92)
Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 68 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject-to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior,Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                         <300                    NCB               First three contracts
2. Goods                         >200                    ICB                       All
First three contracts and all
subsequent contracts larger
than US$0.2 m
>100 and <= 200               NCB               First three contracts
<= 100                   IS/NS                    None
- Vehicles                    <= 300                 UN LAPSO
3. Services
- Individual Consultant        >=50             Section V of Consultant  Report, TOR and Contract
Guidelines                 (All)
- Firms                       > 100                    SFB            Report, TOR and Contract
<= 100                    CQ                       All
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US$3.5 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:  Average
* Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed:  One every 6 months
(includes special procurement supervision
for post-reviexv/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 69 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and H1erbal Plants Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
The Project will be implemented by a PMU to be housed in the EPP in the MOP. The PMU is
responsible for financial management (FM) of the project within the overall payment authority of the
Finance Department of MOP The PMU is responsible for maintaining all financial and accounting
records, prepanng accounting entries, reviewing, posting and preparing monthly project bank
reconciliations, as well as recording all disbursements from GEF funds. It will also prepare quarterly
project financial monitonng reports (FMRs) and the annual project financial statements and arrange for
their auditing by a qualified auditor acceptable to the Bank. The PMU will be staffed with a qualified
FMS pnor to Board presentation, to undertake these activities according to the prepared TORs acceptable
to the Bank (see Annex 13). In the meantime, the EPP has appointed a qualified consultant to prepare an
FM manual and design a computenzed accounting system in order to have an adequate FM system
acceptable to the Bank in operation by September 30, 2003.
Country Issues: the Country Financial Accountability Assessment dated October 2001 considered the
public sector control environment to be adequate, although the number of separate controls, while
ensuring financial accountability, could detract from efficiency and effectiveness. As a result, the budget
system is being modernized.
Risks: The overall FM risk related to the project is considered moderate. This consideration is made with
the recognition that accounting staff have yet to be appointed and the FM system for the project has to be
established. These risks will be mitigated through (i) allocation of funds for the FM consultant; (ii)
appointment of a qualified accountant prior to Board presentation; (iii) having an adequate FM system in
place by September 30, 2003; and (iv) close project supervision by the Bank team. These mutigating
actions will allow the building of capacity within the PMITU for proper implementation. However, there
remains the high nsk that MOP's control of the PMU, and the flow of funds, will result in delays in
payment to contractors and hinder timely implementation of the project. The Steering Committee and
Bank supervision missions will closely monitor this issue. MOP's Finance Directorate is comritted to
issuing payments for requests submitted by the PMU within three days and has entrusted responsibility
for this commitment to a finance officer hired specifically for the project.
Flow of Funds. A Special Account (SA) in US dollars will be established in the Central Bank of Jordan
to be solely managed by the MOP/PMU (see "Disbursement" for details on the SA). Replenishment will
be made using traditional disbursement methods including direct payment, replenishment to the SA on
the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and full documentation as required. Payments to
contractors and third parties from the SA will follow the internal control procedures stipulated in the
financial manual. Project financing provided by the GOJ, through budget allocation arranged by MOP,
will be paid directly to the contractor based on request from the PMU. A flow of funds chart is shown
below.
Implementing Entity: In view of the overall payment authority of MOP, a review of its FM system was
camed out to assess its capacity to implement the project. The main characteristics of MOP's FM
systems are as follows:
o The accounting system is governed by the provisions of the Public Accounting Law. The books are
- 70 -



maintained manually, outlining budget components and using the single-entry bookkeeping method
or cash basis principals.
*  An annual budget is prepared and agreed with the MOF.
*  After the approval of the annual budget, special delegations are issued for its execution, which
enables MOP to proceed directly to pay for expenditures.
* Expenditures and payments are subject to three levels of control: an internal auditor, a representative
of the MOF, and a representative of the Audit Bureau, all of whom are involved dunng the approval
process and pnor to issuing payments.
* While there is delegation of implementation, as in the case of PMU, all payments are centralized.
*  Computerization and implementation of integrated management information systems is underway.
Accounting System: The project accounting practices will follow international accounting standards,
which will be reflected in the accounting policies and procedures in PMU's financial manual. Locally
available accounting software will be installed for the project and will assist in generating quarterly
Financial Monitonng Reports (FMRs). All accounts and supporting documents will be maintained at the
PMU. A consultant is developing a chart of accounts reflecting project activities, and prepanng the FMR
reporting formats for inclusion in the PIP. Also, RSCN and EFJ will prepare quarterly summary reports
on their project-related activities showing all project expenditures incurred from their own resources and
a summary of physical progress achieved. RSCN and EFJ will send these quarterly reports to the PMU
within 10 calendar days after the end of each quarter to enable the PMU to submit .the quarterly FMR to
the Bank within 45 days from the end of the related quarter. A consultant is preparing reporting formats
for use by the RSCN and EFJ for inclusion in the PIP.
Internal Control Procedures: The FM manual will define adequate internal control procedure and proper
segregation of duties among incompatible functions, including dual check signatories, preparation of
monthly general ledger closure, and prepanng monthly project bank reconciliation for all project bank
accounts. All financial transactions incurred directly by any participating agency (e.g. RSCN) from its
own resources should be pre-approved by the PMU and supporting documents sent to the PMU for
venfication and recording in the project's accounting records. Reimbursement of such expenditures from
the SA to the participating agency should be channeled by the PMU after their approval by the PMU.
Before the start of each year, every participating agency will prepare and agree on an annual procurement
plan with the PMU.
Financial Monitoring Reports: Quarterly FMRs will be produced and sent to the Bank unaudited within
45 days of each quarter end. The reports will show: (i) a summary progress report on project
implementation; (ni) sources and uses of funds; (iii) cost per component for the quarter and cumulative
costs; (iv) costs incurred per expenditures type; and (v) procurement incurred on contracts below the
stated threshold. The chart of accounts for the project will be set up to facilitate the automatic generation
of the FMR. These contents and format were agreed upon during project negotiations.
2. Audit Arrangements
Auditing: The project financial statements (project balance sheet, statement of sources and uses of funds,
and SA statement) for each fiscal year ending December 31 will be subject to an annual audit under
International Standards by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and under TORs acceptable to
the Bank. The audit will cover all sources of funds related to the project including the GEF grant. Also,
it will cover all expenditures incurred including those under SOEs and their compliance with the Grant
Agreement. The auditor will issue an opinion on the fairness of the project financial statements and a
separate opinion on the eligibility of all expenditures incurred and claimed under SOEs. The audit report
- 71 -



will be sent to the Bank as soon as possible and in any event no later than six months after the
Borrower's fiscal year end. The auditor will also provide a memorandum on internal controls, including
suggestions for improvement, and will submit that memorandum to the PMU for follow-up and
implementation.
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
1. Civil Works                            0.15                       75 %
2. Vehicles and Equipment                 0.70          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
85% of expenditures for other items
procured locally
3. Consultants and Training               3.63           90 % of foreign firms or individuals,
90 % of local firms, 95 % of local
individuals, 100 % of training
4. Research Grants                        0.20                       100 %
5. Incremental Operating Costs            0.15                       100 %
6. Unallocated                            0.17
Total Project Costs                       5.00
Total                                     5.00
Note: Allocation amount for "3. Consultants and Training" is US$3.635 million, "Unallocated" is
US$0.165, but has been rounded up/down in the table due to system requirements.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of SOEs, using the
SA for: (i) services under contracts costing less than (a) US$100,000 equivalent for each consulting firm;
and (b) US$50,000 equivalent for each individual consultant; (ni) equipment and vehicles under contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; and (iii) works, grants, and study tours, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Special account:
To facilitate project implementation and disbursement against eligible expenditures, assurances would be
sought that an SA would be established in the Central Bank of Jordan, which would be operated under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The SA would have an authonzed allocation of
US$500,000 and maintained in US dollars. The initial advance to the SA will be limnted to US$250,000
until the combined total withdrawals and the amounts in special commitments exceed US$750,000.
Thereafter, it will be increased to US$500,000.  The SA will be used to finance only eligible
expenditures and documentation would need to be maintained to support all expenditures from the SA for
purposes of post review and audit. The SA will be periodically replenished on the basis of withdrawal
approved applications, which would be supported by appropriate documentation.
- 72 -



Actions
The PMU will install an FM system capable of recording all project-related transactions and generating
FMRs. The format of the FMRs is in the PIP and will be agreed at project negotiations. The timetable
for implementing the FMS, which was agreed upon dunng negotiations, is described below:
Action                      Planned Completion Date               By Whom
1. Agree FMR formats                 March 5, 2003                         at negotiations
2. Complete FM manual                March 31, 2003                        GOJ
3. Select/appoint FinancialYProcurement
Specialist                         April 30, 2003                       EPP/PMU
4. Select and procure software system  June 30, 2003                       PMU
5. Complete installation and training  September 30, 2003                  PMU
6. Submit first FMR                  November 15, 2003                     PMU
The FM manual and specifications of the FM system are to be completed by March 31, 2003, and should
be available for the PMU's Financial/Disbursement Specialist on appointment.
- 73 -



TS
1S~~ ~~ .... **..



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
Project-Schedule                                 Planned:                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     14                          24
First Bank mission (identification)            11/11/2000                  11/11/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    01/03/2003                  01/03/2003
Negotiations                                   02/17/2020                  03/04/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  06/16/2003
Prepared by:
EPP of the MOP, NCARTT of the MOA, RSCN, and EFJ with input from the World Bank.
Preparation assistance:
GEF Preparation Grant (PDF-Block B): US$350,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Salah Darghouth, MNSRE            Sector Manager, Water and Environment
Petros Aklilu, MNSRE              Sector Manager, Social and Rural Development
Ayman Abu-Haija, MNACS            Financial Management
Osman S. Ahmed, MNCO2             Jordan Country Officer
Nawaf Al-Mahamel, LEGMS           Legal Counsel
Chnstine Allan, MNSRE             Operations Analyst
Andnna Ambrose, LOAGI             Disbursement Officer
Frederic Avanessoff, LOAGI       Disbursement, Finance Analyst
Ferid Belhaj, LEGMS               Legal Counsel
Stefanie Brackmann, MNSRE         Natural Resources Management Consultant
Concepcion Del Castillo, MNSRE    Social Reviewer
Antonio Cittati, MNSRE            Procurement Officer
Hocine Chalal, MINSRE             Environmental Reviewer
Usaid El-Hanbali, MNSRE           Procurement and Implementation Arrangements
Nicole Glineur, MNSRE             Task Team Leader
Nadia Gouhier, MNSRE              Procurement Analyst
Hovsep Melkonian, LOAGI          Disbursement Officer
Samia Msadek, MINSRE             Financial Management
Laurent Msellati, MNSRE           GEF Coordinator
Aloysius Uche Ordu, MNACS        MNA Quality Advisor
Idah Pswarayi-Riddihough, MNSRE  Environmental Reviewer
Nicola Renison, MNACS             Cofinancing Officer
Josephine Salang, MNSRE           Program Assistant
Tijan Sallah, MNSRE               Cluster Team Leader
- 75 -



Shobha Shetty, MNSRE              Economrust
Ayat Soliman, MNSRE               Operations Officer
Yune Taninuchi, MNSRE             Environmental Econormist
Peer Reviewers:
Richard Kennedy, HSDHS
Colin Rees, Consultant
GEF-STAP Reviewer:
Mark Plotkin, Consultant           GEF STAP Medicinal and Herbal Plants Lead Specialist
OER Reviewers:
Shawki Barghouti
Jocelyne Albert
David Freestone
Gunars Platais
Ethel Sennhauser
- 76 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan, February 2003
B. Bank Staff Assessments
PCD
Pre-appraisal mussion Aide-Memoire, January 2003
COSTAB Cost Tables
Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet
C. Other
Prepared for the Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project:
GOJ: Environmental Assessment.
GOJ: Environmental Management Plan (EMP), October 2002, updated January 2003.
GOJ: Global Importance of M/H Plants, May 2002.
GOJ: Role of Women in the Management and Sustainable Use of MIH Plants in Jordan, May 2002.
GOJ: "Hotspots" and M/H Plants Sustainable Use at the Home Level, May 2002.
GOJ: Essential Oils - Their potential importance to Jordan, May 2002.
GOJ: List of M/H Plants in the Wadi Mujib, May 2002.
GOJ: Proposed Ethno-Vetennary Project in the Jordan Badia and Wadi Musa Region, May 2002.
GOJ: Summary of work undertaken under the PDF-B Grant, May 2002.
GOJ: Profile of NCARTT Research Stations envisaged for Ex-situ Cultivation.
GOJ: Documentation of the Proceedings and Findings of the National Stakeholder Workshop, 24-25
Apnl 2002.
GOJ: Medicinal Plants Socio-Econonuc Survey by Kanm Corporation for Agrobusiness Development,
April 2002.
GOJ: Institutional Assessment by Agncultural Research Service of USDA, August 2001.
GOJ: Cultivation Study by Dr. Nasri Haddad, March 2002.
GOJ: National Database Study by Dr. Qutaishat, Feb. 2002.
GOJ Inventory of Medicinal and Herbal Plants by RSCN, Apnl 2002.
Documents with Background Information:
Abu-R. Maylah, B.; Afifi, F.: Treatment with Medicinal Plants in Jordan, January2000.
GOJ: Enhancing Community-Based Livelihood Systems: Sustainable Use, Management
and Conservation of Medicinal Plants in Sub-Saharan Afnca, September 2000.
Lambert, J.; Baah-Dwomoh, J.: Medicinal Plants and Traditional Health Systems, March 2000.
Lambert, J., Srivastava, J.; Nietmeyer, N:: Medicinal Plants, Rescuing a Global Heritage, March 1997.
Nabeh, K.: Proposal for Training and Income Generating. Growing Medicinal and Herbal Plants, 1994.
Nabeh, K.: Growing Aromatic and Medicinal Herbs as Income Generating activity for grass root,
January 2001.
NCARTT: Agncultural Resource Database in Jordan, 1997.
NCARTT: Promotion, Preservation and Utilization of Medicinal and Herbal Plants of Jordan As Means
to Combat Desertification, 1997/1998.
Nefatti, M; Bounejmate, M.; Chnstiansen, S.- Biological diversity, cultural and economic
value of medicinal, herbal and aromatic plants in southern Tunisia, August 2001.
- 77 -



Khairallah, K.: Medicinal and Herbal Plants of Jordan. Proceedings of a National Workshop, June 1998.
Srivastava, J.; Lambert, J.; Vietmeyer, N.: Medicinal Plants - An Expanding Role in Development,
Apnl 1996.
Tehabsen Z.: Plant Genetic Resources Unit (PGRU) at NCARTT, 2001.
Including electronic files
- 78 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
26-Mar-2003
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA                         Cancel    Undisb       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P076961        2002 Hort Exports Promotion & Tech Transfer           500       000                            0 00       4 70     -020       0 00
P069326       2000 JO-HIGHER EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT                  34 70      0 00                           000       26 63      9 46      0 00
P048521        1999 JO-AMMAN WATER& SANITATION                      5500       000                            000       1664      1396       000
P039749        1999 HEALTHSECTORREFORM                              3500       000                            000       1841       613       000
P049581        1998 COMMUNITY INFRA DEV                             30 00      0 00                           0 00       5 91      5 91      -0 01
P035997        1998 JO-SECONDTOURISMDEV                             3200       000                            000       1571      1571       000
Total       19170       000                            000       8820       5100      -001
- 79 -



JORDAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Commiitted                       Disbursed
IIFC                            IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               AIHC                           0.00    3 60    0.00     0 00    0.00    3.60     0.00    0 00
1987/90/93/95      Al-Hikma                       0 00    0 34     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.34     0 00    0 00
1997                BTC                           3.33    0 00     0 00    0 00    3.33    0.00     0 00    0 00
2001                Boscan Jordan                 7 20    0 00     0.00    0 00    7.20    0 00     0 00    0.00
1997               El-Zay                         2.86    0.00     0.00    0.00    2 86    0 00     0 00    0 00
2002               IITPDC                        12.50    0 00     0 00    0.00    0 00    0.00     0.00    0 00
1995               Indo-Jordan                   16 00    0 00     0.00    0.00   16.00    0.00     0 00    0.00
1998               JHTC                           8.57    0.00     0 00    0.00    8 57    0.00     0 00    0 00
2001                Jordan Gateway               10.00    0.00     0 00    0 00    3 00    0 00     0 00    0 00
1998               Jordinvest                     0.00    1 41     0.00    0.00    000      1.41    000     000
1999               MAICO                          0.00    1.00     0.00    0.00    0 00    0 75     0 00    0.00
2000                MEIB                          0 00    2.20     2 15    000     0.00     0.00    2.15    0 00
2002                MEREN                         4 40    0.60     0.00    0.00    0 00     0 00    0.00    0 00
2002                SIC                           8.00    0.00     0 00    0.00    4.00     0 00    0.00    0 00
1996               Zara                          1376     2.97     000     000    1376     297      000     000
Total Portfolio:        86 62    12 12    2 15     0 00   58.72    9 07     2 15    0.00
Approvals Pending Commnitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partuc
2001               Boscan Jordan                     6 00      0.00      1 00     0.00
Total Pending Comniitmnent:       6 00      0.00      1.00     0.00
- 80 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           & North   middle-
Jordan     Africa   Income      Development diamond'
2001
Population, mid-year (millions)                        5 0       301     2,164                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,750     2,000     1,240
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                       8 8       601     2,677
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                         3 0       2 0        10      Gro
Labor force (%)                                        4 0       2 9        1 2    GrI                              Gros
per                            pnmary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   12
Urban population (% of total population)                79        58        46
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72        68        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 hve births)                 25        43        33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               5        15        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of populahon)     96        89        80
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                     10        34        15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)    69        97       107            Jordan
Male                                                 68        103       107              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               69         90       107
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1981     1991      2000      2001
Economic ratios,
GOP (US$ billions)                            4 4      4 2        8 5      8 8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                45 4     25 9      27 2      25 9                     Trade
Exports of goods and servicestGDP            43 0     59 5      41 8      44 2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   -8 7      2 6        0 5       1 0
Gross national savings/GDP                   42 2     15 0      27 9      26 3
Current account balance/GDP                  -0 9    -10 1        0 7       0 4     Domestic                    Investment
Interest payments/GDP                         2 1      6 7       3 5       3 5      savings
Total debt/GOP                               51 5    227 7       94 4      890      svn
Total debt service/exports                   10 1     24 2       12 3      12 1
Present value of debtVGDP                                       90 2      85 0
Present value of debt/exports                                  129 9      118 1
Indebtedness
1981 -91  1991-01    2000      2001    2001-05
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  15       45       40        42        57          -     Jordan
GDP per capita                      -2 5      1 0      0 9        1 2       3 0               Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        4 5      2 5      21         7 9       5 7                                             =
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991       2000      2001      Growth of Investment and GDP (%/)
(% of GOP)                                                                          30
Agriculture                                   61       8 5        2 2       21
Industry                                     29 8     26 2       24 8      247 7      ,
Manufacturing                              145       137       156       153
Services                                     641      65 3      73 0      73 2
Private consumption                          77 7     714       745       76 0     .15
General government consumption               31 1     26 0      25 1      23 0                -  GDI       - 0   GtP
Imports of goods and services                97 2     82 8      68 6      69 0                     G
1981-91  1991-01      2000      2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   8 5     -3 2       7 1               20 T
Industry                                     -0 5      4 3       3 8                                              A
Manufacturing                               0 7      5 4        5 6
Services                                      16       50        49
Pnvate consumptlon                           -0 1      4 8       10 9      6 1                        ss         00    si
General government consumption                0 6      5 0       6 8       -4 6    -10
Gross domestic investment                    -2 4      1 7       10 6      -0 9             -Exports         Olmports
Imports of goods and services                -0 3      2 5      14 5       3 4
Note 2001 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (In bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond wlt be incomplete
- 81 -



Jordan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981     1991      2000     2001     Intttalon (%)
Domestic pricess
(% ch1ange)8
Consumer pnces                               7 7     8 2       0 7       1 8    o-
ImplicitGDPdeflator                         189      51        -01      03      4 -
Government finance                                                              2
(% of GDP, indudes curent grants)                                               o            I
Current revenue                             49 1    44 8      29 8      304     -2     90 S5       00   90 07 59
Currentbudgetbalatnce                       225     131        10        20            -GDPdeflator         -CPl
Overall surplustdeflcit                      7 2     8 3       -4 7     -3 7
TRADE
1981     1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mFil.)
(USS Millons)
Total exports (fob)                         734    1,132     1,899     2.293   rxooo
Food                                       100     126       164       191
Phosphates                                 166     181       128       130     4
Manufactures                               215     403       933     1,269           n         __0I
Total imports (crf)                        3,170   2,512     4,577     4,812
Food                                       508     613       747       733     2,rJ
Fuel and energy                            533     355       718       702
Capital goods                            1,256     369      1,313    1,311       0
9    09  7  se  90  O    01
Export price index (1995-100)                88       87        91       92
Import prtice ndex (1995=100)               124       97       106      108                OExports      alirrports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    71       89        86       85
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1981     1991      2000     2001     Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ mllilons)
Exports of goods and servrces              1,909   2,484     3,536     3,899    s
Imports of goods and services             4,215    3,429     5,796     6,094    s
Resource balance                          -2,306    -945     -2,260   -2,195     3
Net income                                   87     -362       -27        9      2
Netcurrenttransfers                        2,178     884     2,345     2,218     o                           1-7  -
CurTent account balance                     -41     -423        58       32      -             9
Financing tems (net)                         -5      397       623     -270     - 3
Changes in net reserves                      47       26      -681      237     -
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     1,300   1,112     3,430     3,192
Conversion rate (DEC, loca'lUSS)             03      0 7        07       07
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981     1991      2000     2001
(US$ milhons)                                                                    Compostion of 2001 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       2,291   9,550      7,978    7,856
IBRD                                       45      511       856      938                  G 70     A936
IDA                                        78       76        57       55                   70B ss
Total debt service                          316      739       723       770                                 C 439
IBRD                                        3       97       105      104         F 1,020
IDA                                         1        2         3        3
0 762
Compositon of net resource flows
Ofcflial grants                           891      383       286      313
Official aeditors                         305      417       -18       61
Pnvatecrediors                             29      -96      -115     -115
Foreign direct investmenl                          -26       751      140
Portfolio equity                            0        0       104      -25                  E 3,934
World Bank program
Commitments                                25       25        35      120      A - BRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              22       40        38      161      B- IDA   0- Other multriateral  F - Private
Pnnapal repayments                          0       56        56       58      C - IMF                    G - Short-terrn
Netiflows                                  22      -16       -17      103
Interest payments                           3       43        52       49
Net transfers                              19      -59       -70       55
uievelopmenT toonomics                                                                                           V/1 t/UE
- 82 -



Additional Annex 11: Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) Review
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
Dr. Mark Plotkin, STAP Roster Member
I have reviewed the project and found it to be impressive. It seems well thought out and well
designed.
If the project is funded, I would suggest bringing in a few outsiders with expertise to complement
those of the Jordanians themselves. In particular, Dr. Jim Duke of Maryland, USA, an expert in both
neotropical medicinal plants and medicinal plants of the Holy Land, and Dr. Gary Martin of
Morocco, an expert in medicinal plants of arid environments.
I would also recommend more attention to the Intellectual Property Rights issues, so as not to share
medicinal secrets across too wide a spectrum.
Finally, I fully recommend funding of this project.
The Medicinal and Herbal Plant Conservation Project (MHPCP) seems to be a well-thought out and
well-designed effort. The development objectives - improving both the livelihood and the health of
rural communities - are praiseworthy goals, and the focus on both human and livestock needs are
particularly important in arid areas like Jordan.
The medicinal and other useful plants of the Middle East have long been overlooked by much of the
conservation community which has often focused more attention on the tropical regions. Yet the
Mediterranean region as a whole has been as important - some would argue more important - as a
source of economic plants for the world. Jordan, especially in light of its size and because of its
location at the juncture of Asia, Africa, and Europe, has a rich and diverse flora.
Though I haven't worked in Jordan, I assume the situation in terms of plant use, knowledge and
marketing is similar to most other industrialized countries: traditional cultures are facing severe
disruption, and not transrmitting ethnobiological data on to the next generation. Meanwhile, the urban
educated elite are becoming more interested in traditional medicine, and information on trade in
medicinal plants (this is cited in the proposal) is, at best, unreliable.
What this means is that there needs to be some form of recording traditional knowledge about
medicinal and forage plants so that this information does not disappear. The need to develop a
framework for the protection of intellectual property rights is explicitly mentioned in the proposal,
but recording the information should be considered a priority and perhaps incorporated in the
database being assembled.
The key performance indicators - enhanced management capacity, diminished threats to plants,
involvement of local communities, and enhanced public awareness - are well chosen.
The one aspect of the project that seems least well developed is the commercialization of useful
plants. Passing mention is made of pharmaceuticals, but this is a complicated, time consuming, and
expensive process. Probably the best way to approach commercialization of local species is to do so
- 83 -



specifically for local, national, or regional markets. This approach negates the need to try to crack the
international marketplace, which is best avoided in a project of this scale. Another recommendation
is to focus on non-medicinal species: spices or aromatic plants that do not require the same degree of
testing as do medicinal species. An obvious approach is to develop products to sell to tounsts
(aromatic candles, etc.) that can generate even greater income.
The other issue that comes to mind reading this proposal is the seeming lack of interaction with other
countnes of the region. Surely, many of the challenges facing Jordan are shared by neighboring
countnes like Syna. Furthermore, the Israelis are quite advanced in medicinal plant technologies: cell
tissue culture, hydroponics, etc. Political realities might complicate any close Jordanian-Israeli
cooperation at this point in time, but any effort to draw on regional expertise or share results with
neighbonng countnes would serve to augment the positive impact of the project.
Let me say that the issues I've raised are meant as helpful suggestions, not senous cnticisms. In fact,
I find this to be one of the best-designed plant conservation strategies I have ever seen. If
implemented, the successes that are likely to result should be applicable in many other countnes. I
recommend full funding.
Response to STAP Review
The project team agrees with the recommendations provided by the STAP reviewer. Dunng
appraisal, special attention will be given to:
(a) Further ensunng that project components wi-l improve information, knowledge, and
recording of M/H plants;
(b) Further inclusion of outside expertise. Since this is the first time that the conservation of
M/H plants is addressed in Jordan, GOJ, local communities, pnvate sector, NGOs and the
project team are well aware that there is a crucial need for external expertise to allow for
knowledge transfer;
(c) Focus on IPP will be increased;
(d) More attention will be afforded to product development; and
(e) Interaction with other countries of the region will be explored.
- 84 -



Additional Annex 12: Project Management Organigramme
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
Steering
Comnttee
~-.
EPP                  Unit                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Technical
C&mmlttee
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                            - -       - - - - - -Im '
hinstitutional         Conservation            Puiblic Awareness          Incon=
Strengthening                                     & Education             Generation
I   N-SrU    I     I        Ex-SIThI
Wadi        Rift Valley     Fam    |      EF/
N1UJlb  |  NCAR1TNCAR1T           NG4.RTF
RSCN                               8
-85 -



Additional Annex 13: PMU Staff Terms of Reference
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Hderbal Plants Project
The Project Implementation Team shall be composed of two categones of personnel: (i) consultants to be
financed by the GEF funds and seconded to positions at relevant GOJ entities; and (ii) personnel to be
financed directly by GOJ. It is expected that a core M/H plant team will be maintained by GOJ, RSCN,
and the private sector following project completion. Since MMH plants are a new theme in Jordan, it will
be essential to draw on international expertise for certain short-term consultancies in order to ensure
transfer of knowledge and techniques to Jordan.
Project Manager
A Project Manager will head the PMU. He/she will be responsible for the overall management, technical
leadership and coordination of project activities in order to successfully achieve its goals. The Project
Manager will ensure the timely and effective implementation of all components of the project in relation
to the conservation and development objectives. He/she will liaise and coordinate with the Project
National Steenng Conumttee, the Project Technical Committee, concerned ministries, private sector
beneficiaries, relevant implementing and donor agencies, NGOs, farmers, etc. The Project Manager will
be accountable to the chair of the Project Steering Commuttee.
The Project Manager shall perform the following functions:
(a) develop and implement a management plan for all project components;
(b) manage the implementation of activities (see Annex 2) to ensure full and timely achievement of
stated tasks in accordance with defined objectives;
(c) lead the preparation of: budgets and annual work plans, Steering Comrruttee meetings, and
progress reports on project implementation activities in accordance with Bank/GEF requirements
(see below);
(d) refine relevant job profiles, participate in the screening and selection of personnel hired under
the project and enforce best practices in all hinng activities;
(e) collaborate with the Project Financial and Procurement / Disbursement Specialist in order to
oversee project financing and procurement activities;
(f) oversee planning and implementation of training efforts with the M&E and Training Specialist to
train the local community (with special focus on women), GOJ officials, technicians and project
staff in the skills and knowledge needed to perform their assigned duties under the project;
(g) facilitate contacts and communication within GOJ, with all implementing entities, the private
sector, the local community, NGOs, academia and the donor community;
(h) collaborate with MOP, MOA, the pnvate sector, RSCN, MOE, MOH, MOIT, the local
community and other relevant parties to ensure effective project coordination with relevant
activities; and
(i) ensure relevant communication and knowledge sharing of significant achievements through
appropnate media.
Reporting. The format of the reports will be agreed with the Bank.
(a) On a Quarterly basis - the Project manager will submit a report covenng implementation
progress, the use of funds, and project impacts. The report will include:
- 86 -



i.  a descnption (status and impacts) of all activities undertaken, under each component, dunng
the previous three-month penod;
ii. a budgeted work plan for activities under each component, covering the next three-month
penod;
iii. a financial SOE of GEF expenditures undertaken during the preceding the three- month
penod;
iv. as warranted, comments and/or recommendations relating to any conditions that may affect
the progress or quality of work.
(b) On an Annual basis - These reports will be consolidated by the PMU into yearly progress
reports to be submrtted through MOP to the Bank within two months of December 31. These
progress reports will also include an implementation plan and a work program for the next year.
(c) Implementation Completion Report - On completion of the project, the Project Manager will
submit a report containing:
i.  a descnption and assessment related to performance indicators and the attainment of
objectives of activities and development outcomes;
ii.  a financial SOE covenng all component activities throughout the life of the project; and
in. detailed recommendations for subsequent follow up to be undertaken by all stakeholders to
sustain the objectives of the project.
Qualifications and Expenence Required:
(a) M.S. or Ph.D. in management, environmental conservation and management, agriculture, natural
resource management or other relevant professional skills;
(b) strong top executive and managenal skills as demonstrated by 10 at least years of pnor work
expenence in top management in the public or pnvate sector;
(c) managenal level work experience with intemational agencies and demonstrated ability to work
effectively with top management and technical staff in the public and private sector and with
local community leaders;
(d) fluency in Arabic and English, including strong demonstrated oral presentation and wnting
skills; and
(e) knowledge of the entities compnsing the relevant sections of the GOJ, pnvate sector and NGOs
would be helpful.
Monitoring & Evaluation and Training Specialist
The Monitonng & Evaluation and Training Specialist will assist the Project Manager in the management
of daily operations. He/she shall perform the following functions:
(a) assist in the management of daily operations;
(b) act as a coordinator for prompt resolution of operational issues;
(c) assist in the preparation of work plans and reports
(d) act as Project Manager in his/her absence;
(e) assist the Project manager with the preparation of all reporting documents; and
(f) assist in establishing perfonmance standards and development for project personnel.
- 87 -



Monitonng and Evaluation:
(a) formulate and implement a Monitoring & Evaluation System using agreed performance
indicators;
(b) assist the different implementing agencies in updating and implementing baseline studies and
scientific surveys designed to obtain results to implement on the ground;
(c) evaluate the progress of project activities and prepare M&E reports as required;
(d) participate in planning and supervision of project M&E activities;
(e) organize and coordinate the design of workshops, training sessions and study visits; and
(f) train project staff and beneficianes in M&E methods.
Training and Awareness Building:
(a) design and implement a training and awareness-building program targeted at the local community
(with special focus on women), GOJ officials, technicians, and project staff with the skills and
knowledge needed to perform their assigned duties under the project in cooperation with
implementing entities and local communities;
(b) design and lead decisive workshops; and
(c) lead the preparation of training modules and TORs for consultancies.
Qualifications and Expenence Required:
(a) B.S. in natural resource management, agriculture, business or other relevant professional skills;
(b) a minimum of five years experience in overall project implementation as well as design and
implementation of: (i) M&E systems, (ii) logframes, and (iii) training and awareness-building
activities;
(c) demonstrated ability to produce financial reports complying with Bank guidelines;
(d) excellent computer skills with relevant Windows applications including Word and Excel; and
(e) fluency in Arabic and English, including strong demonstrated communication, oral presentation,
and wnting skills.
Financial Management/Procurement/Disbursement Specialist
The Project Financial Management/Procurement/Disbursement Specialist will be responsible for
organizing and fulfilling all financial management requirements and all procurement of services and
goods dunng the first three years of the project in close coordination with the implementing entities, and
shall carry out the following duties:
Financial Management:
(a) prepare budgeted annual work plans together with executing and implementing agencies and seek
their approval for their inclusion into GOJ budget by the Project National Steering Committee;
(b) implement a financial management system and supervise its operation;
(c) prepare all financial reports and statements requested by GOJ and the Bank;
(d) assist the Project Manager to supervise all project expenditures and ensure that these
expenditures are eligible to be financed by the project funds;
(e) maintain accounts in accordance with the project's budget lines;
(f) manage the project budget to meet the day-to-day operating expenses of project components;
(g) ensure that project funds flow on a timely basis and all project accounts are replenished on a
- 88 -



timely basis;
(h) arrange for the annual release and availability of GOJ budget funds; and
(i) provide training in management and finance to micro-and small enterpnses and community
members.
Procurement:
(a) act as a focal point for procurement matters, including obtaining the required clearances from the
MOP and the Bank;
(b) participate in the preparation of working plans;
(c) prepare, implement and update as necessary, a detailed procurement plan in agreement with the
Project Manager, implementing entities and the Bank;
(d) establish a simplified procurement tracking system for monitoring procurement activities under
the project;
(e) develop and collect tender documentation for works, goods, services and other procurement in
accordance with Bank procurement guidelines, including: qualification of consultants, suppliers
and contractors, preparation of short lists for bidding and review and evaluation of bidding
documents for adherence to procurement procedures;
(f) ensuring timely disbursement of project funds for consultants, equipment purchases, and other
project-related expenditures in accordance with procurement and disbursement guidelines;
(g) ensure timely preparation of financial accounting reports and replenishment applications to both
the Bank and GEF;
(h) commission the annual audit of project accounts;
(i) inspect goods together with implementing entities to ensure compliance with specification, and
ensure prompt delivery of goods to beneficianes;
(j) contnbute to the procurement section of the relevant project reports and prepare procurement
monitonng reports; and
(k) train relevant personnel in the management of project funds, including procurement procedures,
payment of consultants, and Bank/GEF financial accounting and reporting requirements.
Qualifications and Expenence Required:
(a) Certified Public Accountant or equivalent degree in administration, accounting and procurement
skills;
(b) a minimum of 5 years of work experience in procurement, accounting, and financial management
using Bank guidelines and local procedures;
(c) relevant computer skills including Excel; and
(d) fluency in written and spoken Arabic and proficiency in written and spoken English.
Lead Medicinal and Herbal Plant Specialist
The Lead M/H Plant Specialist will be responsible for the coordination of the technical activities of the
project. This includes organizing the ex-situ cultivation activities of MiH plants and providing technical
assistance to in-situ conservation activities. He/she will be the Executive Secretary of the Technical
Committee. The M/H Plant Specialist will work with the staff of NCARTT stations, the pnvate sector,
community members and farmers with input from agronomists and plant breeders in full coordination
with the ex-situ Cultivation Officer and in-situ Conservation Officer at NCARTT.
- 89 -



The Lead MIH Plant Specialist will perform the following functions:
(a) prepare technical work plans with the implementing entities;
(b) assist in the implementation of technical work plans with a problem solving approach;
(c) prepare TORs and draft contracts for relevant technical consultancies for the in-situ and ex-situ
sub-components;
(d) prepare inputs to relevant reports;
(e) coordinate with relevant national and international technical initiatives;
(f) develop guidelines and transfer to local farmers for the production of the six M/H species
cultivated at the stations;
(g) ensure provision of quality seed vaneties to local farmers and conduct an applied breeding
program;
(h) ensure training on cultivation and harvesting of tested M/H plants to farmers and communties;
(i) promote an appropnate IPM system for ex-situ cultivation of MiH plants;
( ) prepare and implement detailed work plans for growing tested M/H species in different
production areas and systems to develop best agricultural practices.
(k) prepare and implement work plans to demonstrate appropnate technologies for growing and
harvesting M/H plants;
(1) assist the M&E Specialist to develop a Monitoring & Evaluation Plan for ex-situ activities;
(m) promote a state-of- the-art M/H Plant Gene Bank, Database and GIS at NCARTT;
(n) contribute to, and follow up on production and dissemination of relevant documents, mass media,
information leaflets, extension brochures and scientific publications; and
(o) contribute to networking with relevant projects.
Qualifications and Expenence Required:
(a) Ph.D. in natural resource management, agnculture (agronomy/plant genetics and production) or
other relevant professional skllls;
(b) Mnimum of five years of experience in managing the cultivation of M/H plants in Jordan or
simular climatic zones;
(c) managenal level work expenence with development projects and a demonstrated ability to work
effectively with management, technical staff, the pnvate sector and the local community;
(d) excellent computer skills including Word and Excel; and
(e) fluency in Arabic and English, including strong demonstrated oral presentation and writing skills.
Lead International M/lH Specialist
The Lead International MiH Specialist will have two main roles to assist in the attainment of the
project's development and global objectives over a three-year penod. He/she will transfer state-of- the-art
knowledge on the conservation management and sustainable use of M/H plants to GOJ, the local
community, NGOs, and the private sector.  He/she will also assist the Project Manager in the
management of the overall project with the major role of introducing appropnate new skills and
management systems both in-situ and ex-situ.
The Lead International Mil Plant Specialist shall perform the following functions:
(a) ensure the transfer of skills, facilites, and systems to ensure the conservation of M/H plants;
(b) assist implementing entities in the development of essential skills and in the coordination and
implementation of conservation management strategies and action plans;
- 90 -



(c) supervise, coordinate and, as necessary, assist with the imtiation and implementation of all
consultancies for all project components;
(d) supervise and, as necessary, assist with the appraisal of the technical feasibility and social
acceptability of selected small-scale income generation projects and with the initiation of any
such projects which are likely to support the overall objectives of the project;
(e) supervise and, as necessary, assist in the initiation and coordination of transfer of NCARTT
results to the field;
(f) assist in the design and implementation of Monitonng and Evaluation Plans and scientific
surveys;
(g) guide IPR and organic certification developments;
(h) identify and commission relevant consultancies and short international courses or educational
visits for relevant stakeholders, exposing them to the expenences of organizations and
individuals involved in more advanced stages of implementing similar programs;
(i) promote capacity building in the field of MIH plants including an institutional assessment of the
needs of GOJ, RSCN, pnvate sector and other relevant entities, and, based on the results of this
assessment, the design and implementation of an organizational plan to ensure the sustainability
of the project after its conclusion; and
0) organize the substance of the reporting requirements and ensure their timely delivery.
Qualifications and Expenence Required:
(a) Ph.D. or M.S. in natural resources management, agnculture or related areas;
(b) strong managerial expenence as demonstrated by 10 years of pnor work expenence in the field
of M/H plants.
(c) managenal level work expenence with international agencies, NGOs, private sector or relevant
entities and demonstrated ability to work effectively with top management and technical staff in
the public and pnvate sector and with the local community; and
(d) fluency in English with strong wntten and oral communication skills and working knowledge of
Arabic an advantage.
Administrative Assistant
The Administrative Assistant will assist the PMU with administration of project activities and perform
the following functions.
(a) provide support to the Project Manager and PMU staff;
(b) develop and implement a filing system for all project documents;
(c) coordinate the visits of international consultants and provide logistical support as necessary;
(d) prepare project-related documents;
(e) organize logistics for conferences, meetings and workshops;
(f) ensure maintenance of office communication tools and equipment; and
(g) contribute to the maintenance of the project webpage.
Qualifications and Experience Required:
(a) B.S. degree in administration and at least 5 years of expenence in secretanal / adiunistration of
international projects;
(b) a high level of proficiency in computer skills including Word, Excel, and Power Point (mastering
of other applications would be an advantage);
- 91 -



(c) proficiency in the management of databases;
(d) fluency in Arabic and English with strong written and oral communication skalls.
Muiib Nature Reserve Site Team Leader - RSCN
The Mujib Nature Reserve Site Team Leader will coordinate the in-situ conservation activities of MIH
plants in the Mujib Nature Reserve. He/she will be assisted by a team from RSCN and national and
international consultants. He/she will work with RSCN staff, applied researchers, farmers, community
members and consultants to implement in-situ conservation activities with a special focus on gender
issues. He/she will prepare work plans and supervise the day-to-day operations of the team. He/she will
work in close cooperation with the NCARTT Site Team Leader. The Mujib Nature Reserve Site Team
Leader is a member of the Technical Committee.
The RSCN Site Team Leader will perform the following functions:
(a) prepare and implement an overall management plan for the sustainable conservation of M/H
plants in the Mujib Nature Reserve with a focus on micro-catchment and erosion control;
(b) prepare TORs and draft contracts for all required consultancies including: anthropologist, M/H
plants agronomist, ethno pharmacist, rangeland management, plant ecology, community-based
project development, and soil erosion and water harvesting;
(c) implement applied research to improve the conservation of M/H plants including:
I updating of baseline survey on M/H use;
ii. identifying plant communities, structure and properties;
iii. applying propagation research;
iv. identifying hot spots with the local community;
v. identifying threats to MMH plants and designing and implementing mitigation measures;
vi carrying out a range land survey and implementing recommendations; and
vii. designing and implementing a conservation monitonng program for the Mujib Nature
Reserve.
(d) design and implement a protection strategy for the conservation of M/H plants including:
i. developing and implementing a community-based enforcement program;
ii. updating the zoning plan; and
im. developing a participatory grazing strategy for the area.
(e) design and implement community-based programs, including:
i. conducting a preliminary rural assessment (PRA);
ii. implementing demonstration tnals for growing endemic and rare species;
iii. initiating pilot nurseries for use by the local community;
iv. developing community-based income generating activities; and
v. implementing water harvesting techniques to control soil erosion.
(f) design and implement an outreach and education program for the Mujib Nature Reserve area
including:
i. assessing the level of understanding of M/H plant importance and value;
ii. developing and distnbuting interpretation and educational material;
ii. integrating the field of M/H plants into the Nature Conservation Club (NCC) networks;
iv. delivenng seminars to the local community; and
v. developing interpretation tools for reserve visitors.
(g) design and implement a capacity-building program, including:
1. assessing training needs for reserve staff and the local community;
ii. developing and implementing a training program; and
iii. organizing study tours for relevant stakeholders.
- 92 -



(h) contribute to the MIH plant database, gene bank and GIS located at NCARTT; and
(i) prepare monthly financial and technical progress reports to the PMU and RSCN.
Qualifications and Expenence Required:
(a) Ph.D. or M.S. in natural resources management, agriculture or related areas;
(b) relevant tertiary qualifications - in conservation management, biology, ecology or other relevant
discipline;
(c) 5-7 years of extensive expenence in the management of protected areas and/or multi-disciplinary
rural development projects involving the integration of sustainable natural resource management
with rural econormc development and the objectives of conservation of biodiversity;
(d) strong interpersonal skills - ability to effectively communicate and empathize with all social
groups involved in the project (including women, subsistence farmers, nomadic pastoralists, GOJ
and pnvate sector);
(e) proficiency in training and working effectively with counterpart staff at all levels; and
(f) proficiency in the wnting of reports and management plans in English.
Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley Site Team Leader - NCARTT
The NCARTT Site Team Leader will coordinate the in-situ conservation activities of M/H plants in the
Central Upper Slopes of the Jordan Rift Valley. He/she will be assisted by a team from NCARTT and
national and intemational consultants.  The Site Team Leader will work with NCARTT staff,
researchers, farmers, community members and various consultants to implement in-situ conservation
activities with a special focus on gender issues. He/she will prepare work plans and supervise day-to-day
operations. He/she will work in close cooperation with the Mujib Nature Reserve Site Team Leader and
will be member of the Technical Committee.
The NCARTT Site Team Leader shall perform following functions:
(a) prepare and conduct detailed work plans with communities for identifying hotspots hosting wild
M/H resources;
(b) carry out relevant botanical surveys for M/H plants and implement their findings;
(c) prepare and implement monitoring programs for the in-situ conservation activities;
(d) assist the community in the preparation and implementation of site community management
plans;
(e) assess the properties and potential of wild M/H plants;
(f) conduct test trials to propagate wild M/H resources ex-situ;
(g) develop and implement income generating activities;
(h) contribute to the M/H plant database, gene bank and GIS located at NCARTT;
(i) prepare monthly financial and technical progress reports to the PMU and NCARTT;
() prepare and implement a training and awareness program focusing on the cultivation,
management and use of MfH plants, community development, gender, participatory approaches,
etc., targeting communities (especially women), extension workers, NGOs, etc.
Qualifications and Experience Required:
(a) Ph.D. or M.S. in natural resources management, agriculture or related areas;
(b) 5-7 year working experience in agricultural, natural resource management, or community
development projects and sound knowledge of botany and taxonomy;
(c) strong experience in the implementation of survey results on the ground;
- 93 -



(d) demonstrated ability to work effectively with women, farmers and community members at large,
and technical staff in the public and pnvate sector;
(e) excellent computer skills; and
(f) fluency in English and strong technical report writing skills.
Ex-situ Cultivation Coordination Officer - funded by NCARTT
NCARTT will implement activities related to the ex-situ sub-component and will cover the following:
(a) test and venfy feasible MfH crops and crop management for different cropping systems and areas
in Jordan (development of best agncultural crop management package);
(b) provide proper vaneties for approved feasible crops requirng verification of vanety trails and an
applied breeding program;
(c) multiplication of seeds and plant matenal for feasible crops to provide farmers and communities
with good plant material;
(d) train farmers and communities on ex-situ cultivation of M/H plants requinng demonstrations,
field days and seminars; and
(e) test and verify an appropnate IPM system for ex-situ cultivation of M/H.
Such activities will be conducted at five NCARTT research stations and in farmer fields in different
agro-ecosystems of the country, mainly in the Madaba/Mushaqar area.
NCARTT will deploy or hire on a full time basis a Coordination Officer for ex-situ cultivation assisted
by a team from NCARTT and national and intemational consultants when needed. The main
responsibility of the ex-situ Cultivation Officer is to work with the agronomists, plant breeders, staff of
the stations, the extension officers of the agncultural directorates and community members and farmers
to successfully implement activities in full coordination with the Project Management Unit. He/she will
prepare relevant work plans for the stations and, in cooperation and agreement with the PMU, supervise
daily operations. He/she will be stationed at NCARTT and will report both to the Director General of
NCARTT and the Project Manager. The ex-situ Cultivation Officer will be member of the Technical
Commuttee of the project.
Ex-situ Cultivation Coordination Officer will perform the following functions:
(a) prepare and conduct detailed work plans for growing different crops in different production
areas and systems to develop best agricultural practices;
(b) prepare and conduct work plans to demonstrate appropriate technologies to grow and harvest
feasible crops;
(c) conduct field days and seminars to train farmers, women and other growers;
(d) prepare and conduct breeding programs to venfy proper vaneties for each crop and area;
(e) organize and conduct applied breeding programs and nursenes to produce and multiply seed
matenals;
(f) prepare and conduct applied research to test and venfy appropnate IPM systems for ex-situ
cultivation of MiH plants;
(g) work closely with national and international consultants of the ex-situ sub-component; and
(h) prepare monthly financial and technical progress reports to PMU and NCARTT.
- 94 -



Qualifications and Expenence Required:
(a) M.S. or B.S. with specific emphasis on agronomy/plant breeding/production;
(b) Work experience of 5-7 years with farming projects including the provision of advice, and
cultivation of various crops, and good expenence in cultivation of medicinal and herbal plants is
preferable;
(c) Working expenence with international development or/and applied research projects;
(d) Demonstrated ability to work with researchers, farmers, extension agents and community
members;
(e) Proficiency in wnting technical reports;
(f) Good command of English; and
(g) Proficiency in computer skills.
In-situ Conservation Coordination Officer - funded by NCARTT
NCARTT will implement conservation activities related to the pilot-site of the Central Upper Slopes of
the Rift Valley for the in-situ sub-component and will cover the following:
(a) identification of hotspots hosting wild resources of M/H plants (including surveys and botanical
studies);
(b) develop and implement community based in-situ management plans;
(c) develop and implement in-situ management plans for areas hosting wild resources of M/H plants
(including monitoring programs);
(d) conduct and coordinate applied research for better understanding of wild medicinal and herbal
plants potentials (including analysis of active ingredients and properties and use of
biotechnology);
(e) conduct and coordinate applied research to promote wild M/H plant resources in cooperation
with ex-situ cultivation component; and
(f) maintain a database on M/H plants located at NCARTT.
Such activities will be conducted through NCARTT staff at the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley,
mainly in the Madaba region. NCARTT will deploy or hire a full-time Coordination Officer for in-situ
conservation of M/H plants assisted by a team from NCARTT and national and international consultants
as necessary. The main responsibility of the in-situ Conservation Officer is to work with the researchers,
NCARTT staff, farmers, community members and vanous consultants to successfully implement
activities in full coordination with the Project Management Unit. He/she will prepare relevant work plans
in cooperation and agreement with the PMU and supervise daily operations. He/she will be stationed at
NCARTT and report to both the Director General of NCARTT and the Project Manager. The In-situ
Conservation Officer will be a member of the Technical Committee of the project.
In-situ Conservation Coordination Officer will perform the following functions:
(a) prepare and conduct detailed work plans for identifying hotspots hosting wild M/H resources;
(b) prepare and conduct surveys and botanical studies for M/H plants;
(c) prepare and conduct monitonng programs for in-situ conservation measures;
(d) prepare and conduct detailed community-based in-situ management work plans,
(e) prepare and conduct detailed work plans and measures to manage identified hotspot areas;
(f) organize and conduct applied breeding programs and nursenes to produce and multiply seed
- 95 -



materials;
(g) organize and conduct applied research to study potentials and properties of wild M/H including
the use of biotechnology methods;
(h) conduct and coordinate applied research to utlize wild M/H resources in cooperation with the
ex-situ cultivation component;
(i) supervise the database on Mil located at NCARTT; and
(j) prepare monthly financial and technical progress reports to PMU and NCARTT.
Qualifications and Experience Required:
(a) M.S. or B.S. degree in agriculture with specific emphasis on plant breeding/plant genetic
resources or natural resource management, botany and taxonomy;
(b) work expenence of 5-7 years with the management of natural environment projects including
plant genetic resources, together with experience in conducting surveys and studies of natural
resources, especially with medicinal and herbal plants;
(c) experience in farming projects, including provision of advice and the cultivation of vanous crops
together with experience in cultivation of medicinal and herbal plants;
(d) working expenence with international development or/and applied research projects;
(e) demonstrated ability to work with researchers, farmers, extension agents and community
members;
(f) proficiency in writing technical reports;
(g) good command of English; and
(h) proficiency in computer skills.
- 96 -



Additional Annex 14: Implementation Agencies Organigramme
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
IMPLEMENTATION ORGANIGRAMME
Steering Committee
/              ~~~~~(SC)
---------  Technical
EPP         ~~~Project Management Unit (PMU)          Committee
Procurement/            E anLead Local M/H                   International M/H
Finance/Adm.        M&E and Training         s ecialist         Specialist
Public Awareness
In-Situ              Ex-Situ          & Education      Income Geneiation
Mujib Rift Valley  NCARTT NCARTT          Consult.             MOP
RSCN NCARTT          Farmers  EFJ          NGOs                MOA
Staff  Staff         Staff  Staff          Univ
Consult Consult.    Consult Consult        etc
- 97 -



Additional Annex 15: Composition of Steering, Technical and EPP Special Tendering
Committees
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
Steering (Core)                Steering (Ad Hoc)           Technical
Secretary General, MOP (Chair)  Minister of Health          Project Manager (Chair)
Director, NCARTT                Minister of Education       PMU Specialist (local)
Director, RSCN                  MOP Director, Envtronment   PMU Specialist (intemational.)
Chairman, EFJ                   MOP Director, EPP           PMU Financial/Procurement
Specialist
PMU Project Manager             MOP EPP Project Coordinator  PMU Tng, M&E Officer
Director, GCEP              Site TL Mujib Nature Reserve
Director, Standards &       Site TL Central Upper Slopes
Measurement, MOIT           of the Rift Valley
Fruits & Vegetables         Representative, University of
Association                 Jordan
Representative, Local       Representative, University of
Community                    Science & Technology
Representative, Farrmng     Director, Jordan River
Community                    Foundation
Director, Noor Al Hussein
Foundation
Director, Hashemite Fund
Director, RSCN
Representatives, Private Sector
An Architect
Representative, USAID
Representative, EU
Representative, GTZ
EPP SPECIAL TENDERING COMMITTEE:
MOP Secretary General (Chair)
MOP Director of Finance
MOP Director, SPP
MOP Director, Regional Planning
MOP Director, Infrastructure
Representative, Ministry of Finance
Representative, Central Tendering Department.
SPECIAL TENDERING COMMITTEE:
PMU Project Manager
PMU Financial Specialist
EPP Contracting Officer
EPP Project Coordinator
- 98 -



Additional Annex 16: Implementation Chart
JORDAN: Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
SEE ATTACHED.
- 99 -



Jordan -Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
Implementation Chart
_  _  _  12003  012D4          00c)(5         000r            V007           008
ID     Task Nmre                                                Ourahon     Start    Finish  t3 I.4 Ip 5.2 p 3 ptr 4 ptr1 5Pr 2 pr 3 pt 4 ph fi  2  3r 4 ptr ptr 2 ptr 3 ptr 4 ptr I ptr 2 ptr 3 ptr 4 Dir 1 Ptr 2 5lr 3
T  -   Appointment of Steering Committee                       1460 days  11/13102   6/17/08
T   _     Project Processing                                   1460 days  11113/02   6117/08           i 
3         Draft Project Appraisal Document                     4 days   1113/03   1/16/03
4  _         Draft Grant Agreement                               27 days   1/17/03   2124/03
_         Project Implementabon Plan (PIP)                     27 days   1/17/03  2124/03
T   -        Appraisal and Negotatons                             4 days    2127/03   3/4/03
7   -        Minutes of Negotiabons                                 1 day    315/03   3/5/03T
T   _     Appointment of PMU Staff                            40 days    3/6/03   4/30/03
10 days    3/6/03   3/19/03
_ Appointment of Technical CommiKtee                            10 days    3/6/03   3/19/03
IT      _       Negobabon Package to GEF Colncil                 30 days   &3783-    4116/03
Negotation Package to Bank Board                    58 days  -376T3     5/26/70
17 -         World Bank Board Decision                                     5 d 1a27/03  27/07  
14           Effectveness                                         2 days   57/28/3   3729103
Implementation Schedule                           1460 days i1/1T3/ 2   6MT7/__
Component 1. Institutional Strengthening       1420 days   11U13/02  4/22/08
17  -              11 Establishment of a PMU                     40 days    316703  4730103
-r       _       1 2 ueveloping Inter-sector liks           1200 days   5/14103  12T8T_I!
1 3 intellectual Property Right (IPR) and guideline  300 days  T1t13/02  1/6/04 - -        _    pJ
1 4 Establisnement of standards tor saTety and e -t 140 aays  7/23/03  2/3704,
1 ! ueveloping M/H Plants uata Base          100 T aays --77231   1UIU79707
2_                 1 i I raining Progamme                      12W aays    U/1       --4722W10
7    _       component . Plilot-ltes Conservation           1ZW   i days  WI2WD03  W1778                           .
_24~ -          Z.1 in-snu conservation and sustainbale useeoT 12W 4  days  12DU3  51-010U- i                                                                       a
_2fr- -            Z.Y.1 wadn iWujib 0Mature Keserve rn-snu cor I--I0uu aays  011513 7ZD1208
_26- -                I Appliea Kesearcn Program for understan  45U oays -71247J03  9VT30{
Prolact implementation ChartRewsed  Task  T                                                                                           Deadime
Date 3n28/03              sphli             ......,   Milestone                 Project Summary            Exteral Milestone 



Jordan -Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants Project
implementation Chartt
ID     iTaskName                                                Dumtou     Start     Finish  ir23  4 i pr2    3 pt4            ptr 4  i t,r 2 etr 3  4  ptr 2 ptr 3 ptr 4  1t Ptr 2 Ptr 3 Ptr4 i ptr2 pir3
2i Implementation of enlorcemeni arid prot  700 days  10I115103  6120106          ------
iI Implementabon of socio-economic progi  800 days  10/15/03  1117106
iii Implementation of outreach and educabi  1200 days  10/15/03  5/20/08                     :    1;' i.*.   *i,J,;          -    .      M ,-
30  _                     v Implementabonofcapacatybuildingpro(  1200days   10/15/03  5/20/08                                                    7 -,                 - 4  "   t .'.i    i
311 _2.1.2 Central Upper Slope Rfft Valley In-sftu              1025 days   8/20/03   7/24/07
s  Idenbficahon of Hotspots             125 days   8/20/03   2110/04
ii Site Community Management Plans      900 days   2/11/04   7/24/07           1                         .E?. l                   >i* e
-                      III Assessment of wild M/H plants property  600 days  8/20/03  12/6/05
2.2 Ex-sltu Cultivation Trials               1210 days  10/29/03   6/17/08           1
n3r         _           2 2 1 Ex-situ farming demonstratons     1 200 days   1/12/03  6/17/08                                                  .        ....        ...
2 2 2 Pilot Protyoe Farm Demonstraion at ECI  1200 days 10/29/03  67/308i
-r      _      Component 3. Public Awareness                1200 days   10/15/03    U   20/08 _      I-8
-               3 1 Envorinmental Educabon                   1200 days  10/11S03   5/20/08                            _-                                         -
_ 3 2 Public Awareness                                          1100 days  T1/26/03   2/12/08                            *                        ,.        .. M;t,  "
-        F      Lt _ component 4. IncomeGenr on. aves            d  s2010i                                                               .  W                             -



Additional Annex 17: Preliminary Financial Analysis of Medicinal and Herbal Plants
JORDAN: Conservation of iedicinal and Herbal Plants Project
The experience of NCARTT in M/H plant cultivation began in 1999 with the implementation of a
regional project on desertification control under the umbrella of the Multi-Lateral Working Group on
Environment of the NMiddle East peace process.
Research tnals and demonstrations were conducted to test and verify the suitable agricultural and
management practices for some promising M/H crops. These demonstrations were also used for training
and technology transfer purposes.
Twelve promnsing crops were evaluated; six for dryland farrmng system, three for dryland with
supplemental imgation and three for irrigated system. The main activities conducted are summarized in
Table I below:
Table 1: Agricultural and Management Practices that have been Tested and Verified for Selected
Promising M/H Plant Crops
Crops                       Famung system  Agricultural and management practices tested
Pimpmnella anisum (Anise)          Dry land       1. Planting date
Cuminum cyminum (Cumin)                           2. Seeding rate
Trigonella Foenum-graecum (Fenugreek)             3. Harvest method
Nigella sativa (Black cumin)                      4. Seed processing and cleaning
Carum carvi   (Caraway)                           5. Weed and pest control
Foeniculum vulgare (Fennel)                       6. Economic assessment
Origanum syriacum (oregano)        Dry land       1. Plant spacing
Salvia triloba (Sage)               with          2. Cutting time, height and frequency
Matricana Chamomilla (Chamomule)    Supplemental  3. Requirement for water and fertilizers
Irrigation     4. Effect of environment and agricultural
practices on yield and volatile oil / active
ingredient content
5. Weed and pest control
Hibiscus sabdariffa (Roselle)      Irrigated      1. Plant spacing
Salvadorta persica (Arak)                         2. Harvest and yield processing
Lipia verbena (Millisa)                           3. Requirement for water and fertilizers
4. Tolerance to salinity and heat stresses
5. Effect of environmnent and agncultural
practices on yield and volatile oil/active
ingredient content
- 102 -



Preliminary Results:
Results obtained to date are preliminary and still incomplete but will be refined dunng the
implementation of the proposed project.
Rainfed crops
A best-practice package has been developed for six MIH field crops. These crops are cumin, fenugreek,
black cumn, anise, caraway and fennel. All field operations were successfully mechanized. Planting was
conducted by seed drill, and harvesting by direct combining using wheat combine. Weeds were
controlled using proper herbicides. This shows that these crops could be fully mechanized by using the
equipment used for cereal production. Therefore, large scale cultivation is deemed possible. An intensive
demonstration program was implemented in the different govemorates to disseminate the best practice to
farmers.
Results in Table 2 show the development in the areas planted with M/H crops under rainfed conditions
dunng the last five growing seasons. It shows a steady increase in the cultivated area dunng the five
seasons. The area was increased from 4 ha in the 1997/98 season to 243 ha in the 2001/2002 season. The
number of demonstrations conducted increased ten times within four years. This is due to the public
awareness activities that were conducted by NCARTT. The number of adoptive farmers increased from
five to 19 and the average area per crop/farmer increased from 2 to 4 ha compared to the 2001/2002
season. This indicates the willingness of farmers to expand M/H plant cultivation.
Table 2: Development of Cultivated Areas with M/H Plant Crops in Rainfed Areas (1997 - 2002)
Activity   Total Area   For Research & Seed-  Demonstrations     Production
Planted        multiplication    on farmer fields   by farmers
Season        (ha)       Area in Res. Stations  Area   No.    Area     No.
(ha)   farmers   (ha)   farmers
1997 / 1998        4 0              4.0
1998 / 1999*      20.0             6.0             14.0     12
1999 / 2000*      37 0              8.0            29.0     27
2000/ 2001*       170.0            12.0            158 0   114      12 0     5
2001 /2002        243 0            18.5           144.0    118      80.5     19
^ Dry season
Feasibility studies of some M/H crops grown under rainfed conditions were conducted using the results
obtained during the previous seasons. Production costs and import substitutability potential were
estimated for these crops as compared to those of wheat and lentils, which are the common traditional
crops grown in the area. Results are presented in Table 3.
- 103 -



Table 3: Calculated Production Costs for Promising M/H             Plant Crops Compared to Traditional
Field Crops Grown Under Rainfed Conditions
Cost Items        Common crops         Prom sing medicinal and herbal plant crops
In JD          Wheat     Lentil   Cumin    Anise  Fennel   Black   Fenugreek
______                    ~~~~~~ ~~~Cumidn  I _ _ _ _
Summer plownng              0 65     0 65    0 65     0 65    0 65    0 65         0 65
Seed bed preparation        0 65     0 65    0 65     0 65    0 65    0 65         0 65
Seeds                       2 30     4 00    5 00     3 50    3 00    3 00         4 00
Seed dnll                   100      100     100      100     100     100          100
Fertilizers                 2 00     2 00    2 00     2 00    2 00    2 00         2 00
Weed control Chemucally     I 00     5.00    2 60     2 60    2 60    2 50         4 60
Manually                    0 00     0 00    0 00     0 00    0 00    5 00         0 00
Harvest By Combine          1 50     0 00    0 00     1 50    1.50    1 50         1 50
Manually                    0 00    10 00   10 00     0 00    000     0 00         0 00
Bags                        0.50     0.85    0 65     0 60    100     I 00         125
Seed cleaning               0 00     2 00    2 00     2 00    2 00    2 00         3 00
Land leasing cost          10 00    1000    10 00    10 00   10 00    10 00       10 00
A)Production cost /ha      196 0   371 5   345 0    245 0   244.0   293 0        286 5
B)Avg yield (Kgtha)        1000    800     500      500    1000     500         1000
C)Production cost/Kg [A/B]  0 196   0.464    0 690   0 490   0 244    0.586       0 286
D)Straw income JD/Kg        0 07    0 050    0 100   0 050   0 030    0 010       0 030
E)Net production cost [C-D]  0126   0 414    0 590   0440    0215     0 215       0 256
F)Import pnce per Kg        0 15    0 350    1500    1 070   0 560    0 850       0 350
Net producuon cost versus  0 024    -0.064   0 91    0.630   0 345    0.635       0 094
import pnce JD/Kg [F-E]  I
Cheaper to impo           Yes      Yes       No      No      No      No         No
Sourcefor unportprice. [F] Departmnent ofStatztics, Annual report of Foreign Trade, Data averaged over 1991-1996
The results indicated that M/H plant crops showed a substantial advantage over wheat and lentil.
However, import pnces need to be evaluated penodically because they will be seriously affected by the
market demand and quantity produced.
Rainfed with Supplementary Irrigation
Farmers in Jordan are growing oregano, sage and chamomile. Research conducted aimed at improving
crop management. Oregano and sage were cultivated in plastic houses to find out the optimum row
spacing and cutting frequency and cutting height. Major findings showed that growing oregano under
plastic house resulted in 70% yield increase over yield under open fields. Sage was not adaptable to
plastic house condition because of powdery mildew infection. The results showed that cutting frequency
for the three crops will be around five to six cuttings per year.
Irrigated Crops
Three crops were grown under irrigation, namely, Arak (Salvadoria perisca), Roselle (Hibiscus
subdariffa) and Melissa (Lipia verbena ). They were planted at two research stations: Khaldeah and Ghor
safi. The crops were grown in saline soils and imgated exclusively with saline water. Preliminary
observations show their ability to tolerate heat and salinity, but Roselle suffered when temperature was
below 15C. A demonstration program was initiated to promote cultivation of both Roselle and Melissa.
Attempts were made to train farmers on how to market the fresh product and to train women on how to
make Roselle-Jam. As for Arak, an orchard of around 100 trees has been established at Ghor safi station
in Wadi Araba to test appropnate agricultural practices, especially harvesting techniques.
- 104 -



IBRD 32241
3.70                 3                    3190
A/ ~-  "                  JORDAN
0<<,0 - CONSERVATION OF MEDICINAL
AND HERBAL PLANTS PROJECT
0 6  i  ]9       -330                                               -;                          330
L.ke     MARU STATION                          - .
t   y   #'  T:ber,os   - -              ' D.-..,
KHALDE H STATIO
41  ,,   >   ?             -                  ----- -             <SX         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32-
NCARTT HEADQUAR     mman
MUSHAQER STATION                     ra a sh
~~ f jj ( Dead Mdob .-' \-               /     ^~~.-
IBRSCN  ~AMMAN
Al M ozr  ~STATION -/\                      OJW
K aI AIotr-na.h
GGHOR SAFI STATION'  K RAK
310                                                                                                     310
/  t                                    7to,|'t .  /,->,  \
how6aY   / 
/ /  2  2 '    iS1A ' A N--- 
------  Iv g-                            ,_-tra
30.  ~ ~ ~~saNq~A300-
t  ^,D"sl  2   /      *     NCARTT RESEARCH STATIONS COOPERATING
V ./ .  '.>~  )          .                             WITH PROJECT FOR IN-SITU CONSERVATION
'-AqdbaO  '   ,'!                 /                              AND EX-SITU CULTIVATION
0,                          r                             \  -- \ / {iNATIONAL CAPITAL
a.;S2  -  _   AlMudodwwora,                                0     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
EXPRESSWAYS
0                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T. Al a',,
ROADS
RAILROADS                          29
0    25   50    75   100 Kilometen
I    I1    I    I     1                 1                  1 1 . PERENNIAL RIVERS AND STREAMS
0        25       so      75 Miles              ----..--- INTERMITTENT STREAMS AND WADIS
Th.po-poodne,-yoo MpDenUme,  ThA.flon------ GOVERNORATE BOUNDARIES
dh,-wn o, nop doono *, -oo*e p-fof  Th 8onE      ------- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
350                   360                    37                   380                   390
FEBRUARY 2003



