Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF052299-JO 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants
 
Project) 
 
between 
 
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated May 23, 2003 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF052299 - JO 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 2003, between HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF 
JORDAN (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank (Resolution No. 98-2); and 
 
(D) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested assistance 
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said request having 
been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of 
the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be 
funded from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may 
include funds carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under 
Resolution No. 94-2;  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions 
set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY AGREE AS 
FOLLOWS:
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
Section 1.01. 
(a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute 
an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) 
and (20), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, (c), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; and  
 
(x) Article 
XI. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
 
(vi) 
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except 
as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to 
the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations.”; and 
 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
(j) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”  
 
Section 1.02. 
Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“EPP” means the MOP’s (as this term is hereinafter define) Enhanced 
Productivity Program; 
 
(b) 
“EMP” means the Recipient’s environmental management plan for the 
Project dated February 6, 2003, as the same may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Bank, which plan: (i) sets out appropriate mitigation, monitoring, 
institutional and management measures required for the implementation of the Project to 
eliminate adverse environmental impacts, offset such impacts, or reduce them to 
acceptable levels; (ii) summarizes the procedures for the environmental screening, basic 
design, implementation and monitoring of the mitigating measures under the Project; and 
(iii) constitutes an integral part of the PIP ( as this term is hereinafter defined); 
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(d) 
“Hotspots” means selected Project’s Areas (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) of various sizes where biodiversity is under increasing threat due to human 
activity, land degradation and environmental anomalies; 
 
(e) 
“M/H plant(s)” means Medicinal and Herbal plant species that have 
cultivation and/or biodiversity potential whether trees, shrubs or annual/perennial 
herbaceous; 
 
(f) 
“MOA” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Agriculture; 
 
(g) 
“MOE” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education; 
 
(h) 
“MOENV” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Environment; 
 
(i) 
“MOIT” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Industry and Trade; 
 
(j) 
“MOH” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Health; 
 
(k) 
“MOP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Planning; 
 
(l) 
“NCARTT” means the Recipient’s National Center for Agricultural 
Research and Technology Transfer; 
 
(m) 
“NGO” means any non-governmental organization operating under the 
laws of the Recipient; 
 
(n) 
“Project Area” means the Mujib Nature Reserve adjacent to the Dead 
Sea, and the Central Upper Slopes of the Rift Valley Sea in the Recipient’s territory; 
 
(o) 
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the Recipient’s Project 
Implementation Plan dated March 5, 2003 as the same may be amended from time to 
time in agreement with the Bank, setting out the principles and procedures governing the 
implementation of the Project, such plan to, 
inter alia
:
(i) define the respective roles and 
responsibilities of the agencies involved in the implementation of the Project; (ii) set 
forth the timetable of actions required to be carried out under the Project; (iii) identify the 
procedures to be used for monitoring and evaluating progress towards the achievement of 
the objectives of the Project; (iv) specify what is allowable to be funded from the 
Recipient as reserved procurement following the Recipient’s rules; and (v) set out the 
details of the EMP;  
 
(p) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit, to be established and 
maintained within the MOP’s EPP, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(q) 
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee referred to in paragraph 1 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(r) 
“PTC” means the Project Technical Committee referred to in paragraph 2 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“Research Grant” means a grant under Part A.5 of the Project, made by 
the Recipient under a Research Grant Agreement (as this term is hereinafter defined) to a 
Research Student (as this term is hereinafter defined), pursuant to the provision of 
paragraphs 7  and 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Research Grant Agreement” means an agreement entered into between 
the Recipient and a Research Student (as this term is hereinafter defined) pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“Research Student” means M.S. and/or PhD students eligible for a 
Research Grant prepared under Part A.5 of the Project, pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
 “RSCN” means the Recipient’s Royal Society for the Conservation of 
Nature; and 
 
(w) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to five million United States Dollars 
(US$5,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the 
Project, and amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) under Research 
Grants, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Page  7
-
6
-
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 16, 2008 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later 
date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MOP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices and with due regard to ecological and 
environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement and with the EMP, and the PIP. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the objective of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Conditions
 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
Page  9
-
8
-
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both  
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund Grant and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses of such 
funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both  
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the  
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, namely, that: 
 
(a) 
the Project Implementation Plan has been amended so as to affect 
materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
a situation might arise which shall make it improbable that the Project or 
any significant part thereof will be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  10
-
9
-
Effectiveness, Termination
 
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties. 
 
Section 6.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Planning of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Planning 
 
 
P.O. Box 555 
 
Amman 11118 
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 
Ministry of Planning 
21319 JO 
Amman 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile 
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(MCI) 
 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN 
 
By  /s/                    Dr. Baseem I. Awadallah 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By  /s/                      Hasan Tuluy 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
United States dollars
)
to be Financed
(1) Civil Works 
150,000 
 
75% 
 
(2)  Goods 
700,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
(ex- 
 
factory cost) 
 
and 85% of  
 expenditures 
for 
 other 
items 
 procured 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
3,635,000   
 
90% of expenditures 
 
services and training 
for foreign firms or 
individuals, and 
local
 firms, 
 95% 
of expenditures for 
 local 
individuals, 
and 100% of 
expenditures 
for training 
 
(4)  Research Grants 
200,000 
 
100%  
 
under Part A.5 
 
 
 
of the Project 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
United States dollars
)
to be Financed
(5)  Incremental Operating 
150,000  100% 
 Costs 
 
  
 
(6) Unallocated 
165,000 
 
_____________ 
 
TOTAL
 5,000,000 
 
============ 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
 
(b)
 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means expenditures incurred by 
the PMU, RSCN and NCARTT, in connection with the carrying out of the Project, on 
account of office furniture and supplies, audit costs and local transportation, excluding 
salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
US$500,000 may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (3) on account of payments 
made for pre-approved expenditures before that date but after March 15, 2003. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (ii) services of consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; and (iv) 
Research Grants, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient. 
 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent 
with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Page  14
-
13
-
Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as 
specified by the Bank.  
 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project
 
The objectives of the Project are to improve the livelihood and health of rural 
communities through the conservation, management, and sustainable use of M/H plants 
for human and livestock needs in the Project Area while ensuring effective 
in-situ
 
protection of threatened habitats and ecosystems.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Institutional Strengthening
1. 
Support, through the provision of goods, technical advisory services and  
training, to MOP to assist in the efficient and effective management of the Project. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services to: (a) design an intellectual 
property rights framework; (b) establish a licensing process of M/H plants; and 
(c) establish a workable patent system.  
 
3. 
Provision of goods, training and technical advisory services to: 
(a) expand national M/H plants geographic information system, database and gene pool 
within NCARTT; and (b) establish health and safety standards guidelines for the M/H 
plants sector. 
 
4. 
Provision of: (a) short-term on-site instruction courses; (b) short-term 
workshops, courses, education visits; and (c) training, for all Project staff and local 
community stakeholders. 
 
5. 
Financing of graduate research grants to carry out, with farmers and/or 
private sector, applied research related to the growing and production of M/H plants. 
 
Part B:
Pilot-Sites Conservation
1. 
Provision of goods, training and technical advisory services for
 in-situ 
conservation and sustainable use of M/H plants in the Project Area. 
 
2. 
Provision of goods, training and technical advisory services to develop 
and carry out studies in the dynamics of M/H plants communities, their management and 
propagation both 
in-situ
 and 
ex-situ
.
Page  16
-
15
-
3. 
Preparation and implementation by RSCN of: (i) site conservation 
management plans for sustainable use of M/H plants and their products; and (ii) piloting 
of farmer-based cultivation trials for a selected number of threatened and indigenous 
medicinal species.  
 
4. 
Provision of goods, training and technical advisory services to support: 
(i) inventory of flora and fauna and definition of the boundaries of the Hotspots in 
collaboration with knowledgeable parties; (ii) assessment of the supply and demand of 
M/H plants currently used by women for day-to-day health care needs; (iii) assessment of 
the sustainability of the wild supply in the Project Area; (iv) classification of M/H Plants 
status as to rare, endangered, or decreasing and significance to Jordan’s bio-diversity; (v) 
design and implementation of guidelines for the sustainable harvesting of wild plants 
where cultivation is not possible; and (vi) establishment of methods for propagation and 
cultivation of selected M/H  plant species in home gardens and in degraded habitats. 
 
5. 
Provision of goods, training and technical advisory services to:
 
(i)
 ex-situ
 
farming demonstrations for pilot cultivation trials, at selected NCARTT stations, of 
threatened, rare and high demand M/H plants used for human and livestock health care, 
culinary purposes and species used by the cosmetic industry; and (ii)
 
pilot-prototype farm 
demonstrations at selected farms.  
 
6. 
Carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities for the Project. 
 
Part C:
Education and Public Awareness 
Carrying out, through the provision of goods, training and technical advisory 
services: (i) an environmental education program to introduce state-of-the-art knowledge 
about M/H plants in both formal and informal education; and (ii) public awareness 
campaigns that focus on providing knowledge on the role and importance of M/H plants 
in the conservation and community development agenda of the Recipient. 
 
Part D:
M/H Quality Enhancement and Product Development 
Carrying out, through the provision of goods and technical advisory services, of 
studies on organic farming certification and standardization of M/H plants raw materials, 
processing, quality control, product development and promotion, and facilitating access 
to micro-credit through cooperative arrangements. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 16, 2008. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
2. 
Procurement of Small Works 
Small works under Part B of the Project, including incidental materials and tools 
required therefor, shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on 
the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response 
to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles may be procured from the Inter Agency Procurement Services Office 
(IAPSO) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) the first three contracts for goods and works, 
irrespective of their value; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in paragraph 2 or 3 under Part C of this Section, and estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct contracting 
or shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
Page  19
-
18
-
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 
and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for institutional strengthening, pilot site conservation, education and 
public awareness under Parts A, B and C of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  20
-
19
-
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals. Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval. Selection of al
l
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, terms of reference, short lists and the 
first three contracts shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants: (i) to be selected on a sole source basis; or (ii) or estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and 
experience of candidates, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
(d) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, terms of reference, short lists 
Page  21
-
20
-
and the first three contracts shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval according to Section V of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  22
-
21
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
 
1. 
The Recipient shall, not later than April 15, 2003, establish and thereafter 
maintain PSC with qualified staff in adequate numbers. PSC
 
shall meet at least six (6) 
times per year for the duration of the Project and shall consist of an estimated fourteen 
(14) members with a core of five (5) voting members.  The PSC shall, 
inter alia
,
be 
responsible for: (a) strengthening national policy and advise the Recipient, the industry, 
and the community on issues relating to M/H plants; (b) promoting sustainable and 
expanded use of M/H plants; (c) developing links and avoiding duplication of efforts 
among the Recipient’s agencies such as MOA, MOE, MOH, MOIT, MOP, MOENV, the 
growers of M/H plants, the pharmaceutical industry, other producers of M/H plant 
products, NGOs and the consumers; and (d) supervising and directing the implementation 
of the Project and approve annual work programs and budgets.  
 
2. 
(a) The Recipient shall, not later than June 15, 2003, establish and thereafter 
maintain PTC with qualified staff in adequate numbers. PTC shall, 
inter alia,
 be 
responsible for providing technical guidance in implementing, monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project.  
 
(b)  
PTC’s membership shall include: (i) the Project Manager (chairman); (ii) 
the PMU staff; (iii) representative/s from academia; (iv) a representative from the private 
sector; (v) representative/s from the NGOs; (vi) an architect; and (vii) representatives 
from the interested donor agencies active in the Recipient country. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall, not later than March 30, 2003 establish and thereafter 
maintain, the PMU within MOP’s EPP, with professional staff in adequate numbers and 
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.  The PMU 
shall, 
inter alia
,
be
responsible for: (a) implementation of the Project in accordance with 
the provisions of this Agreement, PIP, and EMP; (b) the planning, procurement, 
disbursement processes under the Project; and (c) monitoring progress in the 
implementation of the Project, and reporting in accordance with indicators agreed upon 
with the Bank. 
 
4. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, commencing September 30, 2003 until completion of the Project: (i) quarterly 
progress reports, acceptable to the Bank, covering the implementation of the Project 
during the preceding period, each such report to include, 
inter alia
,
a
detailed break-down 
Page  23
-
22
-
of expenditures incurred under the Project during the preceding period; and 
(ii) consolidate these report into yearly progress reports, each such yearly report shall 
include, 
inter alia
,
the Project impact, implementation plan and work program for the 
succeeding year. 
 
(c) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about December 31, 2005 a mid-term report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(d) 
review with the Bank, by February 28, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (c) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and agreed 
recommendations of the Recipient and the Bank, and their views on the matter. 
 
5. 
The PMU shall coordinate the Project activities through two (2) implementation 
units to be established, not later than May 31, 2003 and thereafter maintained, at both 
Project Pilot-sites referred to under Part B.1 of the Project. 
 
6. 
The Recipient shall, not later than March 31, 2004 cause the local communities 
to design and implement in consultation with the local implementation unit, site 
community management plans. These plans shall include, 
inter alia
,
updated grazing 
arrangements, water-catchment and harvesting measures, enrichment planting, erosion 
control of wind and water, natural measures to increase and maintain fertility and 
integrated pest management initiatives, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
and in conformity with the PIP and EMP. 
 
7. 
Unless otherwise agreed by the Recipient and the Bank, no expenditures for a 
Research Grant shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated 
from time to time to Part A.5 of the Project unless the Recipient shall have furnished 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that: (a) a Research Grant Agreement has been entered 
into between MOP and a Research Student and has been approved by the PMU; and 
(b) Research Grant has been prepared pursuant to the principles, policies and guidelines 
set out in PIP. 
 
8. 
A Research Grant shall be expended pursuant to a Research Grant Agreements to 
be entered into between the Recipient and a Research Student under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank which shall, 
inter alia
,
include: 
 
(a) 
the obligation o the Research Student to carry out on-the-ground applied 
Page  24
-
23
-
research in accordance with the Research Grant Agreement and the PIP, 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
environmental, agricultural, technical, and financial practices; and 
 
(b) 
the right of the Recipient to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Research Student to use the proceeds of the Research Grant upon failure 
to perform any of his or her obligations under his or her Research Grant 
Agreement. 
 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part G of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to 
the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
US$500,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to US$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of US$1,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the GEF Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  26
-
25
-
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
Page  27
-
26
-
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
Page  28
-
27
-
Seble Berhanu 
M:\legmn\JORDAN\GEF\M-H Plants GEF TF Grant Agreement(Board).doc 
April 16, 2003 2:31 PM
 
