                                                                                   49235

Jordan Conservation of Medicinal and Herbal Plants (P069847)

Request for Legal Amendment of Schedule 1 of the Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement (TF052299-JO) - February 21,2008


1.    The Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC) of the
      Government of Jordan requested an amendment of the Global Environment
      Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (GEF-TFGA) (TF 052299).

      The request was formally submitted by the client on June 26, 2007. However,
      given the significance of the requested reallocation among categories of the
      TFGA, the Task Team deferred its recommendation to further discussion with the
      implementing partners at the approaching Mid Term Review (MTR). This
      decision was concluded at an internal discussion with the GEF coordinators
      recommending further and detailed review of the client request. The Client was
      informed accordingly, with the recommendation to request the Bank to make a
      simplified reallocation from the unallocated category (US$165,000), for any
      urgent needs. The first part of the MTR was held in November 2007 with an
      interim MTR report prepared, and the second part of the MTR will be concluded
      by the end of February 2008.

3.    During the first part of the MTR, the Task Team conducted a thorough review of
      the client's request and revisited the client's justification, along with the Project
      management Unit at the MOPIC (PMU) and the implementing partners during
      which the possibility to further revise the reallocation figures became likely.
      Accordingly, The Task Team agreed to support a reallocation request once a
      revised estimation of figures is submitted by the Client by January 15, 2008. On
      January 23, 2008, the PMU confirmed by e-mail no need to submit a revised
      estimation and reiterated the importance to expedite the processing of the Legal
      Amendment, to allow the implementing partners to meet the needs which have
      emerged during implementation. Hence the amendment request dated June 26,
      2007 and presented to you in this memorandum remains valid. The GEF Grant's
      objectives will not change as a result of reallocation, and accordingly there will be
      no impact on the Project outcome indicators. The task team is aware of the
      significance of the reallocation. Therefore relevant discussions with Disbursement
      and Loans colleagues have confirmed the reallocation's consistency with the
      Project Global Environmental Objective and Development Objective.

   4. The Task Team confirms progress on several tracks towards achievement of the
      Project Development Objective. At Mid Term, overall Project progress was rated
      as "Moderately Satisfactory", and albeit the initial implementation hurdles, the
      Grant is likely to reach its objectives. In addition, the project has shown recently a
      positive increase in commitments and disbursements, along with the signing of
      two major contracts. The project financial audit for the year ending December 31,
      2006 was submitted on time with an unqualified opinion.

Amendment of the GEF-TFGA

 5. An amendment of the GEF -TFGA is needed to increase the costs of activities that
    have emerged as essential for the satisfaction of the various project components
    and the achievement of the Project objectives:

        a. An amount of US$ 100,000 under Category l(a) -Civil Works, is needed to
            cover insitu site management in the Eastern Upper Slopes (fencing,
            management, and water harvesting techniques). This was neglected in the
            initial operating budget; this amount will also contribute to the long term
            sustainability to promote conservation practice as per the GEF objectives.

        b. An amount of US$ 300,000 for Goods under Category 2(a) managed by
            the National Center for Agricultural Research Extension (NCARE) is
            needed to promote certain conservation practices or to cultivate herbs on
            site in order to reduce the pressure on wild cultivation on protected herbal
            species. This amount will also finance the supply of equipment for
            champion farmers within the context of the new private sector cooperation
            framework (pre-cooling units, heaters, seed cleaning plant, nurseries and
            seedlings);

        c. An amount of US$ 121,000 under Category 2(b) -Goods managed by the
            Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature (RSCN), is required to
            support emerging activities in Al-Mujib Nature Reserve and the socio-
            economic program (establishment of seed nurseries, initiation of
            cultivation trials in selected households, designing Herbal and Medicinal
            Plant Production Center, etc.);

        d. The sharp increase in fuel prices and maintenance costs for eligible spare
            parts require an additional amount of US$ 50,000 under Incremental
            Operating Costs (category 5);

 6. The amounts detailed above will be reallocated from categories l(b), 3(a) and
    3(b). As confirmed by the implementing partners, the proposed reduction in the
    above categories will not have a negative impact on the implementation of
    activities. This is due to the original over-estimation of the budgets for the sub-
    activities under those categories. This was detected later during implementation
    when the revised implementation plan clarified and detailed the activities to be
    carried out by each implementing partner to fully achieve the Project Objectives.
    As explained above, other consultancy categories will absorb the reallocated
    funds to finance the implementation of critical activities, such as the socio-
    economic program for RSCN. The Annex to this memorandum highlights the
    proposed changes as they should appear on Schedule 1 of the TFGA.

 7. The reallocation memorandum has been cleared with all parties concerned. The
    legal amendment of the disbursement categories of the GEF-TFGA will be signed
    by the Country Director upon your confirmation.

                                       ANNEX
               ProposedRevised Schedule 1 of the TFGA (TF052299-JO)

                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds ofthe GEF TrustFund Grant

                         Amount of the
                               Grant
                            Allocated         Proposed     O/O of Eligible Expenditures
         Category         (Expressed &      Reallocation          to be Financed
                            US Dollar
                           Equivalent)
(1) (a) CivilWorks             30,000

    (b) CivilWorks
    undertaken by RSCN


                                                           100%of foreign expenditures,
                                                            100%of local expenditures
    (a) Goods                                  890,000     (ex-fictory cost) and 85% of
                                                           expenditures for other items
                                                                  procured locally

    (b) Goods for RSCN


                                                              90% of expenditures for
                                                           foreign firms or individuals,
    (a) Consultant
                                                               and local firms,95% of
    Services and                              2,410,000
                                                               expenditures for local
    Training
                                                              individuals,and 100% of
                                                              expenditures for training

    (b) Consultant
    Services and
    Training for RSCN


(4) Research Grants

(5) Incremental
    Operating Cost

(6) Unallocated
    TOTAL

