Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11424-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 26, 1993
i>,~~ r -                      )l 'i-1:.      '        ',.;
J~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;                 ';r,s.s.>S  -t ;.1.a).4 i   Y 
X  \  4    .; .  1>,   ::    t-             
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restdited distfibution and may be used by reipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EOUlVALENTS
(As of November 1992)
Currency Unit    =     Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$  1.00        =     Rp 2050
Rp    1000       =     US$ 0.488
Rp    1 million   =    US$ 48.8
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 meter (m)                     =         39.4 inches
1 kilometer (kIn)               =         0.62 miles
1 square kdlometer (sq km)      =         100 ha or 0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                  =         2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                 =         2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)              =         2,205 pounds
INDONESIAN FIVE-YEAR PLAN
Repelita V              -        Fifth Five - Year Plan, 1989-94
Repelita VI             -        Sixth Five - Year Plan, 1994-1999



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
ADB                -  Asian Development Bank
APBN               -  Central Govemment Budget
BAPPEDA            -  Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS           -  National Development Planning Agency
BPKP               -  Financial andI Development Supervisory Board
Canat              -  VillageLeader
Desa               -  VillageAdministive An:a
DGFCA              -  Dire        General of Food Crops Agriculue (in MOA)
DGWRD              -  Diretoate General of Water Resources Development (in MPW)
DIP                -  Daftar lan Proyek (development budget allocation)
DIPERT.            -  Provwincial Agricutural Service
DLRD                  D ito    of Land Reclaimaton and Development (in MOA)
DOI- II            -  Dirtorates of liTigation I (in DGWRD)
DPP                -  Direcwates of Planning and Progrmming (in DGWRD)
DPU                   Provincial Public Works
DIlW               -  Deep Tubewell Facility
DWS                -  Domestic Water Supply
OI                 -  Govemment of Indonesia
IIC                -  Interagency Tigation Committee
im                 -   ternational Inigton Management Institute
INPRES                Revenue sharing grant programs frn GOI to provincial, district and
viae  authorities
-SF                -  Inigaton Service Fee
ISSP               -  Irigation SubsectorProject (Loan 2880-IND)
YITW               -  Ine tecbnology Tubewell Facility
Kabupaten          -  Adinistive District eaded by Bupati)
Kecamatan          -  Administive Subdistrict
M&E                   Monitoring and Evaluation
MOHA               -  Ministry of Home Affairs
hMOA-  Ministry of Agriculture
V                  -  Mnstry of Public Works
O&M                -  Opeadm and Mainenance
COA                -  Ovseas Development Administration (UK)
OECF               -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
Palawija           -  Second  foodcrps (grown mainly in dry season)
PAT                -  Pengembangan Air Tanah (Groundwater Sub-directorate in DOI - I,
WGWRD)
P2AT               -  Subproject Office of PAT (n all project prvnces)
PBB                -  Property and Building Tax
PIADP              -  Provincial IrTigated Agriculture Development Project
PPL                -  Vilage level agricultural extension worker
PRAS               -  Prvincal Agriculture Service
PRIS               -  Provincial Water Resources Development Service
Repelita           -  Nadonal Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita V, 1989-94)
Sawah              -  Lowland rice fields
SID                -  Survey, Invesdgation and Design
STW                -  Shallow Tubewell System-
Wiliah             -  Administative Subdistrict unit
WSSPLIC            -  Water Supply and Sanitation Project for Low Income Communities
WUA                -  Water Users Association (P3A)
This document has a restictd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offcia duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



$r1AEEl A 1PRFf SML R13FC)I
TAb bzf<conltents
PaBgp, N o.
lLOA4N1 A ND E'lt   Jn!CrSUn1MUSY ................................ #................. .......   i
I.    PROJEr         S    = 1 13ACKrAN r)....lDB.A.... .    K ....              I
Background  .................  I
Agrkiudltue Sector 1.......                                               I
Irrigation  Subsector ................2... ...*......... ..........   2
Inssdtudional Frantwork .             .............., ........            3
Challenges Facing the rozundwatlkr ligadion Subsector  ........4
Bank Involvecnnt in Irigation Development S.....         ........
Issues andLessons Leantin lrigation Developent in lndonesa ...................  7
- Technical Contraints...                         .                  8
-   Insitutional and Human Resource Constraints ...............S
-  Financial Constraints..                                           9
-     nvilDnnulernlta.l Constraints...                               9
-   Issues and Lessons Learnt specific to Groundwatr Development.    9
P?ropoeed Sta y   and Rtional for Bank Irv ovenent ..............................  11
-I.   ]r.e.....                             ...nSt........................... 12
IR.~ THEnl MOETrts ......................................................... 121
A.    P-rojectConcept auSndser    .   ...................................      12
-  Project c     ..ce.pt                  ... ............. 12
-  Project Objectives .      .     .       ................................ 12
- lnoject StaftbsMy ............................ 12
- Project Scope.          .                                         13
B.    P)rJoect Cwapoftpts .............. .....   ......................... 13
This r    s based on the findings of an appraisal mission omnVrising of MessrsdMmes.
L. P. Cnnngham (Task Manager); R. Dkayal, and J. Vilona (Bank) and W. Barber, and
G.             lh   ted Indonesia in Septe             tober 1992. Ms. 1 KoilpitLK i  and
Mr. R van Vomofthizen (Bank) also asted in the   Ml ePer PaReviewez Ofthe kprojecCt
were MessrsMLs Jen An en (enviromnental spr              e); S. Lieberman
(public hel and community participation); B. Paalu (mulipurp    uss of grundwaer)
A. Memon (domestc water supply and rural infLastructur). Ms. Mt H3um Director (3D R) uand
Wr. A. P. Cble, Division Chif (EEA3AG) have endorsed the pr-jecL



ge *No.
C.  DetailedFeatures                                  ........  13
-  Survey, Investigation and Design                                  13
-  Intmdiate Technology Tubewell TF W) Facilities  .    .13
-  lDbeep Tubeweiell (DTWrl) Facilides                               14
-  Initdal Support for O&M  of Facilities    .      .......................... 14
-  Domestdc Water Supply (DWS) Facilities  ........................ 14
-  Houseyard Irrigation Facilities .      .      .     .14
- Agricultural Development ...            .15
-  Community Participation Activities      ..                        15
- Institutional' :.pport      ..15
- Groundwater Resource Management   .               .15
- Consultant Services         ..                                    16
D.  StatusofPreparaSho.andon.andImplaneonSchedule...                            16
-  Status ofIPreparation..16
-  Inmplemlentation Schedule                .17
E. EnvironmentAspects                     .....                                 17
F.  Role ofWomen                       .       .       .       ....................... 17
IV'.   PROJECr COSTS AN  FINANCING ..............................18-------..... 18
Project (Costs .18
Pnroject Fanancing .19
Procurement .19
Disbursements ...............................                            20
Accounts and Audits .21
V.   ORGA2IZATIONAND               2                                            2
A. Background .                                                                 22
1B. ,mjecO4pnizadon .23
C. IProject               ..pe.entation..........24
-  Scheme Preparation, Analysis and Documentadon .     .            24
-  Anangementsfor Multipupose Use of Groundwater  .     .24
-                                                                   2)5jectDevelopment1'rscess.25
-                         oWstablisnent andSupportofWUAs.    25
-                          .ra.ning... 25
- MUanagement of Groundwater Resources   .        .26
- Monitoring and Evaluation       ..                                26
- Progress Review and Reporeng        .         .                   26
- Annual Implementation Review    .               .27
- Budigetary "lrocedlures..                                         27
VI.    PRODUCION. MARIING. FARM INCOM    AND COST RECOVERY .... 27
Agricultural Production and Marketing .27
- Cropping Intensities    ..27
- Water Requirenments    ..28
- Crop Yields   . .28
- Marking  . .29
POroject Financial Viability         ..29
-  Financial Prices          ..................... 29
- Farm Budgets   . .29
)h4&M Funding and Cost Rovery..              ..                           3)



EWNM
VIIL   PROJECT  JUSTIFICATION  AND  R ISKK .................................             31
Project Benefits and Beneficiaries                     .                          31
Econotnic Justification .................. 32
-  Sensitivity Analysis ...................  32
Risks and Uncertainties..                                                         33
21C[.  AKGRllELEAiMM7 lR}E&UM  AMil EtE WLAO   M IdE M&) 1N ................................  .   3 4
TABLES IN TH M34TM
Table  2.1  Irrigation Subsector - Prqect Completion and Performance Audit Reports        7
Table 4.1 Summary of CDsts...18
Table 4.2 Project Financing Plan .19
Table 4.3 PmucuenmnentPlan .20
ANNEXES
1.  Main bl,
Table 1.   Sunumary of Subproject Areas by Facility Type and Progrm Status  ..... 36
Table 2.   Pro)ect Cost Summary   .......................... ...................   37
Table 3.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule  ............................................   38
Table 4.   Proposed Allocation of Loan   .............................................    39
Table 5.   Financing  Plan    .............................................  40
Table 6.   Implementation  Schedule   ................................. ............  41
2.   Assumptions for Project Analysis  .....................................................    43
3.   Detailed  Cost Estimates   ......................      ...............................   55
4.   Community Participation in Groundwater Development ................... ..............  71
5.  Planning and Design Criteria and Methodology for Groundwater Development  ......  77
6.   Groundwater Conditions in Subproject Areas  .............................................  91
7.   Groundwater Monitoring and Regulation   ..................................................   97
8.   Irrigation Water Requirements  ....................................... ..............  99
9.   Irrigated Agricultural Development  .....................................................  103
10. Institutional Aspects of Groundwater Development .105
11. Water User Associations .109
12. The Role of Women in Groundwater Development .113
13. Consultant Services .117
14. Procurement Arrangements .123
15. Environmental Considerations .127
16. Project Supervision Requirements .129
17. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .130
CHARTS
1    Overall Project Organization   ........................     ..........................  132
2    Pect O         nal Arrangements for Agricultural Development   ........ .......  133
3    Organion of Provincial Water Resource Development Services (PRIS) ............ 134
4    Oraniation of Typical Provincial Agricultura Services (PRAS) .............. ......... 135
S    Schemadc Tubewell Development Process  ................................................. 136
IBRD  24058 - Project Impact Areas



OROUNMWAM l)EELOMM EROlEC
Iasn and Pmject SuMMax
: Republic f Indonesia
lnAn           : USS 54.0 milion equivalent
Tums           : Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
inteest rate.
Pl?e sioda0 GOI recognizes the need to expand groundwater development, in ooth Java and
the Outer Islands, in ameas with no surface water potential using facilities that are
sustainable under beneficiary management. The project would be targeted at
selected areas in: Aceh, Nordt and West Sumatra, and Lampung, East and West
Java, North, Central and South Sulawesi, Lombok and Sumbawa in Nusa
Tena Barat (NTB), West Timor in Nusa Tenggara Timor (NTI). About
25,000 ha would be developed including al activities to bring tubewell irrigation
systems into full opetion. In additon, the project would support agricultural
development activities. Components would include: survey, investigation and
design; construcdon of about 240 deep tubewell systems serving some 6,000 ha;
about 1,900 intermediat technology tubewell systems serving about 18,650 ha;
construction of domesic water supply and houseyard irniption faciities; technical
assistance; and institutional support for detailed design and implementation
supervision. The project would also strengthen the groundwater monitoring
networks and provide tining in groundwater resources evaluation. In addition, a
pilot program would develop some 500 ha using shallow tubewells through the
agnculturl development component for poor farmers unable to afford the
investments themselves.
B fits and Risks:  The proect would gene  substantial incremental benefits from low cost works
to develop areas with known reliable groundwater resources. Direct benefits
would include: increased crop production on at least 25,000 ha presently under
rainfed agriculture; improved performance and sustainability of existing
groundwater irrigation schemes; improved management and administrative
capability by institutions involved; and turnover of groundwater infrastructure to
farmer groups. The project would benefit directly about 50,000 families; promote
furtr development in less developed regions impacting on poverty alleviation;
and contribute to GOrs policy objectives of rice-sufficiency and agricultural
divesification Insdtutional stengthening would contribute to decentralizadon of
technical authorities by increasing the role of provincial agencies in long term
O&M support and groundwater monitoring activities. There would also be
indirect benefits by tacling subsector issues related to: project preparation,
standardizaion of  planning and design; quality control; and environmental, agro-
socil, institutonal issues relatd to small scale irrigation including sustainability,
beneficiay participn, effective O&M and cost recovery. The main project risks
rlate to improing quality control in planning, design and implementation and
lether farmers will utilize fully and sustain groundwater facilities. Other
uncerainties rlate to condnuing management constraints, particularly through the
inital O&M period. To address these risks, the project would cover a six year
pesiodto include mpport of the initial O&M phase of completed tubewell systems.
and design criteria and implementaton processes and procedures would
be standardized for better quality control and easier supervision. The work
program would be subject to annual reviews of performance with regad to: local
funding; institutional coordination; quality control; implementation criteria and
procedures; training; provision for project supervision; and regular monitoring and
evaluation of project perormanc.



(ii)
ElimatjdCosa: at
IlAm      Da9ton                  1l          oreiga    Tno         % of
US$ Million ----Base cost
A. Works
- Tubewell rigation works    18.9        0.7       19.6       27.8
- Domestic water supply works  0.7       1.0        1.7         2.4
- Observadon wells            0.2        0.1        0.3         0.4
B.  Equipment and Matrials
- Tubewellequipient&nimatetials   2.3   20.8       23.1        32.7
- Office and survey equipment  0.4       0.5        0.9         1.3
- Vehicles b/                 0.1        0.6        0.7         1.0
C.  Services
- Survey, investigation and design   0.8  0.0       0.8         1.1
- Agricultual support         0.8        0.0        0.8         1.1
- Insdtutional support        5.0        0.0        5.0        7.1
- InitialO&Msupport           2.6        0.0        2.6        3.7
D.  Training                         1.6       0.0        1.6         2.3
E.  Consultancy services            4.4        5.7       10.1        14.3
- Special Studies             0.6        0.0        0.6         1.3
F.  Project admnistraion                                  2 a 
Base Cos t    41.2       29.4       70.6       100.0
Physical cotingencies           1.5       1.7        3.2         4.5
Price contingencies            2lL Li
Toma rie Costg      50.5       34.4       84.9      120.2
a/ Including taxes and duties, estimated at US$ 6.8 million equivalent; rounded to one decimal point
b/  Resevedp ent.
FinancingPlan:
LO            Foreign         Total
Govemment of Indonesia     29.5            1.4           30.9
IBRD                                      354°
Total                      50.5           34.4           84.9
Dilblune
Bank FY                                     21997   12QQ
…------------------ (US$ million) -----------
Annual        3.0      6.3        8.7       9.8     11.0      10.4       4.8
cumulative    3.0      9.3       18.0      27.8     38.8      49.2      54.0
Esd Ratoof Enb                14 percent (weighted average for all project schemes).
Mbn&W    IBRD 24058



RWDONFIA
C}ROUNID-WAIR V95alDREM(
I. SECT0- AND PERJECT BACKGROUND
Gener BackoUnd
1.01 The large expansion of irigation infrastructure in Indonesia over the last two decades has
made a major contribution to agricultural production in the country, particularly to the achievement of
self-suffliciency of rice. The total irigated area is now about 5.5 million ha, primarily under surface
water inigation, with groundwater irrigation representing less than 1.0 percent of the command area
served. Most development is concentrated on Java which has a long tradition of irnigated agriculture.
The annual growth rate in irrigated area nationwide was about 1.6 percent per annum during the
period 1969-85. However, coordinated efforts to develop full potential benefits fron government
irrigation schemes have not, until recently, been afforded the importance given to the construction
program.
1.02 The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has been involved in groundwater development for
irrigation since the late 1960s. This catalyzed private sector development of groundwater irrigation
facilities, particularly in Java. Despite considerable proven potential, actual groundwater development
has been slow and this water resource has contributed little to the total irrigated surface (para 1.01).
Existing groundwater irrigation is concentrated mainly on Java, thougn efforts have been made to
expand development to the Outer Islands, under the Irrigation Subsector Project (Loan 2880-IND),
through USAID and ODA activities and, more recently, with Japanese and EEC aid. GOI has
recognized that in many areas, groundwater facilities are too technically complicated and expensive
for construction by individual small scale farmers, or farmer groups. However, such facilities are,
nevertheless, suitable for handover for farner maintenance and management. In addition, GOI has
recognized that groundwater development can be specifilcally targeted at poor farmers in some areas
w3here surface water irrigation development is not feasible.
A2iultural S&=
1.03 Agriculture remains a key sector of the Indonesian economy, contributing about 21 percent of
GDP (iri constant terms) and providing employment to some 55 percent of the labor force. Foreign
exchange earnings from agriculture account for about 26 percent of non-oil exports. Of some 24
million ha under cultivation, about 16 million ha are under annual crops, of which some 5.5 million
ha are irrigated. Except for estate crops, nearly all agricultural production is undertaken by the 18
million smallholders, most of whom farm less than 1.0 ha. Farm incomes are increasingly being
supplemented by off-farm employment, which contributes up to 30 percent of net farm family
incomes. In areas near the larger cities, where there are expanding opportunities, women are playing
an increasingly important role in farming.
1.04 The agricultural sector grew at 3.8 percent per annum between 1969-89, compared with a
population growth of 2.1 percent. Food crops, 1/which account for about 60 percent of agricultural
GDP, grew at 4.2 percent per annum during the same period. Rice, the single largest component of
the food crops subsector, grew at an even faster rate, 4.8 percent per annum, particularly during the
1979-89 period. These growth rates are substantial considering that, in the 1970's, not only was rice
the principal import, but Indonesia was also the world's largest importer of rice. The policy of
achieving self-sufficiency in rice was not only efficient, given Indonesia's comparative advantage in
labor-intensive production, but was equally a policy for alleviating poverty, because rice production
was the main economic activity and income of the rural poor. In areas where soils are a constraint to
rice and other food crop production, tree crops contributed to employment and income generation for
I/ Comprising rice and palawija (secondary) crops such as corn, soybean, casava, groundnuts and sweet potte



-2-
smallholder families. Rural poverty, however, condnues to exist in pockets in Java, and more
rampandy in some of the Eastern Islands.
1.05 The overall impressive performance of the sector is attributed to Indonesia's appropriate
response to the oil boom through a combination of me-coeconomic management and sectoral policies.
These policies included public investments in irrigation, research and extension, widespread
promotion of high-yielding vareties, and subsidized input packages, compensating for adverse terms
of trade for tradeable goods, mainly agricultural. Administered price programs in conjunction with
the trade policy regime, helped achieve food price stability.
1.06 Some shortfalls associated with these policy instruments, which the Government is beginning
to address, are: (a) high budgetary costs (Rp 700 billion for fertilizer subsidy in 1990/91) posing a
fiscal problem; (b) inefficiencies in resource allocadion, e.g., high subsidies esultng in excessive use
of fertilizer and underpricing of resources leading to speculative demand for land and an inefficient
use of water; and (c) a regulatory environmernt leading to some rent seeking and cost inefficiency in
maketing.
kigatio Subseo
1.07  SuJraxjQn. O£the total surface water irigated area of about 5.5 million ha, about 1.1
milion ha are privately managed and some 4.4 - "lion ha are under public sector management.
Public sector irrigation comprises some 2.3 millio.a ala of technical irrigated area, 1.3 million ha of
semi-technical area, and 0.8 million ha of simple irrigated area 1. Most iigation schemes are based
on run-of-the-river supplies, and thus the actual area cultivated in any year may vary considerably,
particulaly in the dry seasons.
1.08  Groundwate Irgao. Proven potential for groundwater irrigadon is presendy estimated at
about 175,000 ha. Most of this potential is located on Java, reflecting the fact that exploration and
development activities have been concentrated on that island. Additional groundwater potential will
doubtlessly be discovered as exploration of groundwater resources proceeds on the Outer Islands.
1.09  Public sector irrigation development using g. )undwater was inidated in East Java in the late
1960s, but proceeded slowly through prolonged periods of exploration and csting in pilot schemes.
The total area irrigated by groundwater under government schemes in Java is now estimated at about
27,000 ha. Public sector groundwater development for irrigation in the Outer Islands has occurred
only in the last seven years. The total groundwater irrigated area in the Outer Islands is now about
3,000 ha, with the largest concentration of some 1,700 ha on Lombok.
1.10 Up to a decade ago, there was little groundwater irrigation development in the private sector in
Indonesia, except through manually operated hand-dug wells and some very minor development
using tubewells on sugar estates. In the early 1980s, the private sector on Java developed a low-cost
technology for constructing shallow tubewells (STW) suitable for installation of centrifugal pumps.
Subsequently, private sector development of groundwater has expanded relatively rapidly on that
island.
1.11  1MgFWn l1=Dditus and nr Support Over the last two decades, Gors expenditures
on irrigation have totalled about Rp 13,000 billion, or more than US$ 7.0 bilion (1988 prices).
About half the funding has been provided through external assistance from multilateral and bilateral
sources. The Bank has provided loans totalling about US$ 2.0 billion (para 2.06). Other important
donor agencies have included ADB, USAID, CIDA, EEC, Japan, Australia, Netherlands, the United
Kingdom and Ily. The coordinaton between the donor agencies has generally been good.
1/    ka areas have full Govnment cool to rtiay canal level; smi-ec   areas have pemanent canals
with Govmem control to main canal lee; and   k irriated schemes have few pmanent struc   and ae
usuayfaemanae



-3-
1.12  Primary Government funcdons for irrigation development, including goundwater irrigation,
are with sever government agencies (Annex 10). Development planmng and budgeting ae done by
the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) with provincial planning inputs by the
BAPPEDA in each province. The Ministiy of Public Works (MPW), through its DiMrectorate General
of Water Resources Development (DGWRD), has general responsibility for planning and
development of publicly funded physical infrastructure for irrigation and drainage. Ile Dirctate of
rrigation II (D)OI-Il) within DGWRD is directly responsible for construction of new works for large
ace water schemes and groundwater inigadon development. Within D)OI--, a subdirectorate for
groundwater development, Pengembangan Air Tanah (PAT), manages and provides coordination and
technical backstopping to subproject offices in the provinces, known as P2AT. The long tenn
objective is to integrate these centrally funded subproject offices into the Provincial Water Resources
Development Services (PRIS) of the Provincial Public Works agencies. At present, the P2AT offices
operate primarily under direct technical guidance of DOI-I through PAT, and are responsible for
implementing groundwater irrigation projects through the construction stage. The P2ATs are also
responsible for supporting and supervisi"% groundwater scheme operadons after construction, a role
similar to that exercised by PRIS m publiv surface water irrigation systems.
1.13  The primary responsibility for basic groundwater data collection and evaluation (Annex 7) is
assigned to the Directorate of Environmental Geology (DEG) with i the Ministry of Mines and
Energy (ME). DEG also has responsibility in law to provide technical advice to provincial
Governors on issuing licenses for groundwater development and use, and for technical monitoring of
the enironmental impact of groundwater abstactons. In practice, DEG has insufficient staff and
funds to carry out this task and has, de facto, delegated much of its oversight powers to the
provinces. Authority to issue licenses for groundwater development rests with each provincial
G}overnor. Licensing of groundwvater abstraction and metered monitoing of abstractons has focused
imarily in urban areas, partularly for commercial and industrial uses, as these attact a user fee.
Frquenty, temporadr licenses are issued when resource evaluations are inadequate prior to issuance
Of irm permits. Groundwater abstracton for irrigation and other agricultural uses, and for domestic
use, is free of user fees. Consequendy, groundwater is not closely monitored or regulated by the
licensing a.gency. The P2ATs are usually given freedom to explore for and develop groundwater for
rrigation afterconsultaton with the relevant provincial authorities. Development licenses me issued
tO P2ATs on a blankcet basis. In some provinces, the P2AT office functions as the technical advice
agency to the Governor's office regarding issuance of groundwater use licenses. However, a new
initiative in East Java has vested responsibility for groundwater monitoring and evaluation to PRIS
(para 5.08).
1.14 Agricultural extension is provided through a tiered hierarchy of the Ministry of Agriculture's
(MOA) Extension Service which extends from the center to provincial, subprovincial (Wiliyah),
district (Kabupaen) and subdistrict (Kecamatan) levels. The extension agents (PPLs) work out of the
last office level to serve areas of about 300-1,000 ha. Extension services are coordinated in a
province by the Provincial Agricultal Senrice (PRAS). The agricultural extension service's role in
groundwater irrigation schemes has, in the past, been limited for a variety of reasons including, lack
of interagency coordination, competing extension schedules, and budget and personnel constraints
(para 3.12).
1.15 Water User Associations (WUAs) of beneficiaries are established on government financed
goundwater facilities to take responsibility for post construction management. The legal provisions
regarding the status of WUAs reflect both wntml government and provincial government legislatve
actions. The 1984 Presidential Instru ton No. 2 on Establishing Water User Farner Associations
prescribes responsibilities for establishing the associations to the Ministries of Public Works, Home
Affairs and Agriculture and serves as a model for the establishment of WUAs under individual
provincial decrees. In general, provincial decrees grant WUAs the rights to: privately develop and
munage water sources for irrigation; manage govemment-owned surface water irrigaton systems at
te teray level; and manage govemment-constructed groundwater irrigation facilites. The WUAs
lso have the rights to: elect their own officials; establish locally adapted bylaws as adjuncts to model



-4-
WUA constitutions; owr. prowerty; and raise their own revenues, including collection of inrigadon
fees from the beneficiaries of facilities that they nianage.
1.16 The Ministiy of Home Affairs (MOHA) under its Regulation No. 12, 1992, has enhanced the
status of WUAs as 'legal entities' with contractual rights under national law. This change in the law
will enable WUAs to: open bank accounts; receive Government assets; make contracts; enforce
agreements in court; have access to commercial bank crrdit; and have legitimate control over their
members. This recent action has been encouraged by the Bank through the Irigation Subsector
(O&M) II Project (ISSP II, Ln. 3392-IND). Although the new MOHA Regulation strengthening the
legal status of WUAs is now effective, reflecting this in provincial decrees will take longer.
1.17 Local goverments at provincial, district and subdistrict levels are responsible, in their areas
of jurisdiction, for coordinating support agencies involved in irrigation development through
Interagency Irrigation Committees (I1Cs). Tne most strategic level is that of the district committee
under the aegis of the District Officer (Bupati). In practice, lICs vary widely in their degree of
activity and performance. The agencies which are supposed to be coordinated, in fact, exercise
considerable independence. Moreover, the RC structure is essentially oriented to planning seasonal
operations of government surface water irrigation systems. This is not important in the case of
groundwater irrigation facilities which are completely managed by their beneficiaries.
Ch]alenges Facing Groupdwater Inigamo Development
1.18  Government has rec.gnized that although laws and regulations exist in Indonesia for
integrated water resources management and planning, their application and adequacy to meet current
requirements and future challenges need to be substantially strengthened. Moreover, the strategy for
multi-sectoral water use and management is not fully defined, and the institutional arrangements for
supporting such a strategy have not been developed. The operating functions of different
m-anagement units (e.g., provincial services, river basin authorities, municipalities, and pollution
control and other regulatory agencies) need to be clearly defined and mandated. In some areas of
Indonesia, in particular on Java, competition for scarce water resources (including groundwater) and
degradation of their quality are developing such that an action plan for water management and
regulation needs to be urgently fonmuiated and implemented. An immediate requirement would be
collection of sufficient data to enable effective monitoring and evaluation of quantity and quality of
water resources on a river basin basis. Aspects of this challenge would be specifically addressed
under the proposed project with respect to groundwater resources in the project provinces.
1.19 Despite Indonesia's success in developing its food production (para 1.04), the situation
regarding nce self-sufficiency remains questionable when measured against the rapidly growing
population. The easy opportunities for expanding surface water irrigated agriculture have been
exploited. Potential for further new development is essentially exhausted on Java, Bali and Lombok,
and remains mainly in the Outer Islands. By contrast, there are significant proven groundwater
resources remaining for development, mainly on Java, and investigations will certainly expand the
proven potential on the Outer Islands. However, in developing groundwater resources for irigation,
t will be necessary to take account of growing demands for other uses of water, some of which must
be afforded higher priority than irrigation.
1.20 Notwithstanding Indonesia's satisfactory economic performance overall, there is extremely
wide diversity of incomes. A significant proportion of the population is at the lower end of the
income range and remains below the poverty level. Part of the poverty in rural areas may be related to
small farm size and, to some degree, with lack of irrigation. However, the small commands of
groundwater irigation facilites make it possible to target poverty groups as beneficiaries with far
greater accuracy than is possible with larger surface water irrigation systems. Such targeting
demands a 'hands-on' approach by Government for selecting development areas, particularly at the
planning and site selection stages. Reliance on market forces to provide a purely 'demand driven'
development, entirely financed from private funds, would tend to exclude the poorer population.
Thus, the project would promote the fullest possible measure of beneficiary participation in
development decision making (para 5.10). In this respect, a specific objective is for beneficiaries to



-5-
develop the concept that it is their 'common property', despite the fact that capital costs have been
borne by Government.
1.21  With respect to groundwater development, the above challenges would require changes and
improvetn .-s to project implementation procedures, particularly with regard to subproject planning
and desig- ;nteragency coordination and monitoring performance. It would also be necessary to
maintain . -,ad construction quality so that commissioned facilities can funcdon and be sustained as
intended. Full conmnunity participation is essential at all stages of the development process, since all
project works would be handed ever for farmers' management. Thus, a project objective would be to
minimize the public sector role once facilities have been constructed and commissioned for handover
to WUAs. In this respect, special care will be necessary to ensure that selected subprojects are
technically appropriate and financially viable so that facilities can be sustained under beneficiary
management.
H. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
Bank Involvement in ETigation Development
2.Oi General. Bank experience with irrigation development in Indonesia and in many other
countries, demonstrates that the subsector is facing a number of important technical, financial,
institutional and human resource challenges. The OED's Annual Review of Evaluation Results for
1989 1/ suggests that successful irrigation projects have produced important long-term benefits,
particularly in increasing national food supplies and raising incomes in the rural communities. The
review also found that overall operational performance of irigation systems has been poorer than was
anticipated at project appraisal and completion. It notes that physical infrastructure has often
deteriorated, leading in some cases to long-term decline in production and low efficiency of water
u=se. Inadquate O&M funding and institutional inadequacies have contributed to this shortfall in
performance. The review suggests that Borrowers for irrigation development have often disengaged
oo early from projects, leaving irrigation and drainage systems incomplete and land development
unfinished. Moreover, it notes that complementary services--extension, research and marketing--
which are essential to obtaining full productivity from irrigation development, have been inadequate
or seriously delayed. The report also states that beneficiary participation has been much less than
required. Such shortfalls can be attributed to much of Indonesia's irrigation development.
2.02 Dmundwater Irrigation. The Bank has supported substantial programs for groundwater
irrigation development in India, Bangladesh and Pakistan 2/ and smaller scale programs in Philippines
and Myanmar, in addition to its support for developments in Indonesia. In all cases, initial
developments were based primarily on relatively high discharge tubewells which were constructed
and managed by the public sector (Myanmar has yet to develop beyond this stage). While this type of
development may be necessary to catalyze private sector interest in tubewell facilities for irnigation,
expenences have shown that: (a) public sector operations have had only modest success in assunng
equity of access to groundwater (one of the key objectives); (b) public sector management of the
facilities has generally been inefficient and has resulted in lower than expected agricultural benefits;
(c) operating costs have been substantial; and (d) cost recovery has been poor. Thus, the overall
social, financial and economic viabilides of the schemes have been substantially less than predicted.
2.03 In all the above countries, except for Myanmar, introduction of public tubewells for irrigation
was followed by private sector development of shallow tubewells (STW) constructed at relatively low
cost to serve small command areas. However, the private sector wells, fitted with centrifugal
pumping equipment, can be used where pumping water levels are appropriate and other
1/ Annual Review of Evaluation Results for 1989: Agriculture and Rural Development Sector Working Paper, OED,
August 29, 1990.
2/ Bank supported public groundwater development in Padistan was mainly for the Salinity Control and Reclamation
Projects (SCARP) which ostensibly had groundwater drainage as their prime purpose, in most cases involving
vercal dranage wells, but such projects were conceptualized to also provide irrigation benefits.



-6-
hydrogeological conditions are suitable for the well construction technique. Governments have
recognized the advantages of this type of development which is driven by private sector initiative with
facilities purchased, managed and maintained by the owners. They have supported the private
development initiative by provision of: (a) easy access to medium-term credit on attractive terms; (b)
subsidies to costs of tubewell facility equipment; and (c) subsidized electrical power connections and
energy.
2.04 It is generally considered that private sector groundwater irrigation facilities have
demonstrated better performance on most scores than publicly financed and managed facilities. While
this is basically true, private sector development has not been without some important drawbacks.
When governments have supported private development by provision of easy access to medium-term
credit, loan recovery has been typically poor and has often become politicized. Construction of rurl
power networks in India and Pakistan to give highly subsidized connections to pump sets has led to
deteriorating engineering standards, because the programs were underfunded. This in tum has led to
poor quality rral energy supplies. The burden of providing subsidized rural power networks and
electrical energy, without appropriate recompense from the state budgets, has often undermined the
financial viabiliies of the power supply utilities. Moreover, in most cases, the policy decision to
provide electrical energy for agricultural pumping has deprived more cost-effective users from access
to public energy supply sources.
2.05 Large scale private sector development of groundwater for irrigation becomes uncontrollable
by government without imposition of an effective licensing system. Such systems tend to become
bureaucratized and abitrary, and are often corrupted. Furthermore, private sector development tends
to benefit the rich. Moreover, typical private sector facilities can only be installed where
hydrogeological conditions are appropriate. In some countries, including Indonesia, these social and
physical restrictions become an mportant development constaint. More technically complex and
expensive facilities, not appropriate for construction by the private sector, must then be used if the
objective is to make maximum use of groundwater resources for inigation and reach the poor.
2.06 Bank Lendinj for Ifrigaion. Irrigation has absorbed a major part of Bank lending for
Indonesian agricultural development over the past two decades with loans/credits totalling some US$
2.0 billion for 26 opertons (Table 2.1 below). Most irrigation development has been on Java, and
has almost entirely been based on surface water resources. During the 1970's, the Bank supported:
(a) rehabilitadon and modernization of irrigation and drainage systems, construction of new systems
and a multipurpose dam; and (b) institutional strengthening and manpower development, (although
with a limited impact). More recently, the focus of Bank lending has been on improved O&M of
existing systems, support for policies entailing turnover of small public schemes to farmer groups,
and introduction of an irrigation service fee. These policies are aimed at increasing efficiency and
sustainability of investments, reducing dependence on central government budgets for O&M funding,
improving resource allocation, and increasing beneficiary participation. The ongoing Provincial
Irrigated Agricultural Development Project (PIADP, Loan 3302-IND) aims to complete and fully
develop ongoing small and medium schemes in the Outer Islands and to develop institutional capacity
to improve coordinadon of inigetion with agriculttual and other related services.



-7 -
Table 2.1: IIaton  Subser - Projct Completion and Performance Audit Repors
Credit/Loan _    I.                                  Odhinal -PPARMR               KR
Ref      No.    Effective  Closing       Pioject             Loan  Report No. Date  Report No. Date
(USSM)
I Credit 0127   1969    1976  lt. Rehabilitation 1         6.0    2047   May 78
2 Credit 0195    1970    1978  lri. Rehabilitation U      19.0    3269   Dec 80
3 Credit 0220   1971    1978  bri. Rehabilitation ImI     15.0    3269   De 80
4 Credit 0289   1972    1979  ITi Rehabilitation IV       12.6    3269   Doc80
S Crdit OS14   1974    1982  Jatiblhur Li. Extmnsion      30.0    5183   Jun 87
6 Credit 0995   1980    1987  IrLXV                       45.0    7956   Jun 89
7 Loan 1100   1975    1985  lIr VYl                       65.0    6864   Jun 87
8 Loan 1268   1976    1983  Irrigation VII                33.0    5881   Oct 85
9  Loan 1434   1977    1985  Itr VMIU                     63.0    6864   Jun 87
10 Loan 1435   1977    1984  Irri DC                      35.0    6864   Jun 87
11 Loan 1578   1978    1986  ld. X                        140.0   7956   Jun 89
12 Loan 1579   1978    1984  IrrXI)                       31.0    6864   Jun87
13 Loan 1645   1981    1986  irL Xll                       77.0    7313   Jun 87
14 Loan 1691   1981    1985  Cimanuk Flood Control (XL)  50.0    6864   Jun 87
15 Loan 1811   1980    1987  hiXIV                        116.0   7956   Jun 89
16 Loan 1958   1981    1987  Swamp Reclamation I          22.0                      7930   Jun 89
17 Loan 2118   1982    1988  hir.XVI                      37.0                      8199   Nov 89
18 Loan 2119   1982    1989  lirLXVI                      70.0
19 Loan 2375   1984    1988  Second Ptov. ltd.             89.0                     8336   Jan 90
20 Loan 2431   1984   *1992  Swamp Rclmation II            65.0
21  Loan 2543   1985   $1991  Multurpose Daom & Ii.    156.0
22  Loan 2560   1985   01991  W. TarunCanal Cmpovemenz  43.4         *
23  Loan 2649   1986   *1992  Cenual  West lava Prov.   166.0        *
24 Loan 2880   1988    1991  lIrL Subsecwor               234.0
25 Loan 3302   1991    1997  Prov. rLAgrii. Dov.          125.0      *
26  Loan 3392   1991   *1995  Ini Subsecorf 1             225.0      *
-olaw                  ;.970.0
* Indicates ongoing projects.
2.07 Of the 20 Bank loans for inrigation and related agricultural development closed to date, some
15 have been evaluated by the Bank s Operation Evaluation Department (OED), of which, the most
recent and relevant audit reports are Nos. 6864 and 7956 1/. In addition, two Project Completion
Reports (PCRs) 2/for projects that have not yet been audited by OED, have relevance for recent
irfgation development. The Intemational Irrigation Management Institute (IIMI) has also produced a
report on Indonesian irrigation development M/ and USAID and ODA have produced evaluation
reports on pump irrigation in Indonesia and the Madura groundwater development project respectively
4,.
Lssues and Lessns Ied in ki"£onm Devlodamet in Indontesia
2.08 There can be no doubt that provision of irrigation facilities has had a major positive pact on
food grain production in Indonesia (para 1.05). Moreover, it is evident that, in general, farmers
resond well when provided with reliable and timely irigation service. Nevertheless, there is room
for considerable improvement in all aspects of planning, design, construction and O&M of irrigauon
systems. Lessons learned, which could lead to improvements, fall into four broad categories -
P/ PAR, Idgao Projec  VI, VLII, IX and XII, (Ln. NoS. 1100, 1434, 1435, 1579 and 1691-IND), June 30, 1987,
Report No. 6864, and PPAR, Ipigaton Projects X, XrV and XV (Ln. NoS. 1578,1811 and Cr. No. 995-IND);
June 30, 1989, Report No. 7956.
2Y PCRs, Irriatn XVI POect e(LI No. 2118- ND), November 27, 1989, Report No. 8199, and SeCond Provincial
kIgaton Delovpment Projec (Ln. No. 2375-IND), January 26,1990, Report No. 8336.
3/Efficin igion Management and System Turnover, wMI, Sri Lanka, Deember 1989, Repot  No. TA 937-IND.
4/Policy Altmatives for Pumping Irigton in Idnesia, USAID Mission of Indonesi, June 1992, and (Daft)
Evaluation of Madma I uan Project, ODA (UK), August 1992.



-8-
technical, institutional, financial and environmental. The main shortcomings include: (a) inadequate
quality control for all development phases; (b) Government's lack of priority for nonconstruction and
O&M activities; (c) insdtutional and human resource constraints; (d) lack of coordination of irrigation
and agricultural programs; (e) poor monitoring and evaluation of irrigation facility performance and
the impact of irrigation on agricultural production; (f) local funding constraints; (g) inappropriate
priority in use of available funds; (h) inadequate cost recovery mechanisms; (i) inadequate beneficiary
participation through formalized water user organizations; and (j) insufficient consideration of
environmental impact.
2.09 Technical Constraints. Inadequate physical resource data (hydrology and soils) and agro-
economic data at the preparation stage of many irrigation projects has resulted in flaws in planning
and design. These, with deficiencies in construction, have caused large reconstruction expenditures
that are often ureated as maintenance. Priorities are not geared to improving operations, but are
predicated on the degree of physical disrepair. Maintenance activities are generally uncoordinated and
often do not relate to efficiency, or operational objectives, but rather to the availability of funds,
which are generally unpredictable. There is litle reliable information on the technical Derformance of
irrigation systems, and thus no confinnation of the O&M principles and operational citeria built into
designs. An underlying problem is that many schemes, particularly in the Outer Islands, were never
fuflly completed and thus, the irrigation systems are generally inadequate to deliver the full benefits of
irrigation. Government and the Bank (under the PIADP, Ln. 3302-IND) are addressing these issues
to ensure that schemes can operate as designed before handing over to provincial O&M authorities.
In addition, action is being taken to institutionalize processes whereby plans and operational
procedures are in place, and -sufficient funding and other resources are available for efficient O&M.
2.10 Institutional and Human Resource Constraints. The developmental impact of the irrigation
subsector depends on effectve coordination and cooperation between the Ministries of Public Works,
Agriculture, Home Affairs and Provincial Authorities. In particular, such coordination is not effective,
on the Outer Islands. Each agency follows its own budget provision (which, for developmuent
activities, is directed by the central agency in Jakarta), program, and priorities, none of which are
effectively coordinated with other agencies. The agencies function as if each project activity is self-
contained. In addition, no agency involved in irrigated agricultural development undertakes a regular
evaluation of either its own perfonmance, or its contribution to the overall benefits from irrigated
agriculture.
2.11 The centrally controlled approach followed by most agencies involved in irrigation
development tends to impose a 'top-down' approach to project planning. Inability of Government to
provide adequate staff incentives, limited career prospects and inefficient use of human resources
contribute to the staffing problems. These are compounded by unclear accountability. In addition,
Govemment heavily depends on consultant services which substitute for shortages of technical skills
within the public services. In many cases, the quality of consultant's work is less than satisfactory,
primarily because there is no accountability for performance. The impact of training, supported by
various donors, is also unclear. In these respects, the Bank is now encouraging improved monitoring
and coordination of consultancies employed by GOI, and the assignment of suitably qualified
Govemment staff to work with consultants to facilitate transfer of knowledge.
2.12 It is not generally possible to statistically evaluate the effectiveness of operational projects
because of lack of reliable data. Reporting records are concerned maiiily with implementation
progress of ongoing projects, and individual contracts and their related budget allocations and
expenditures. Little useful data is collected on the quality of performance of completed schemes. As
a consequence, there is a general lack of diagnostic analysis on performance of both the irrigation
service and the related agricultural support service.
2.13 There has been inadequate participation of beneficiaries and local communities in the design
and management concepts of irrigation schemes. While water user groups are found in many
irrigated areas in all their provinces, their impact often has been less than satisfactory. More
formalized organizations are required. Thus, the proposed project would give special attention to the
processes and procedures for community participation and to monitoring the effectiveness of these



-9-
arrangements (para 5.10). In addition, the Bank is supporting under ISSP II (Ln. 3302-IND) and
PIADP (Ln. 3302-IND) the establishment and strengthiemng of Water Users Associations (WUJAs) so
thlat they can take over and manage small schemes previously under public sector management. In
support of this concept, the Government is putting in place the legal and administrative procedures
needed to facilitate the turnover of small public schemes to farmer groups (para 1. 16).
2.14 Financial Constraints Insufficient local funding has been an important development
constraint, particularly for activities that require predictable and regular budgetary provisions, such as
hydrological data collection and monitoring and evaluation. Priority is given to funding works, to the
detriment of other key development activities such as land acquisition for infrastructure and settlement
and agricultural development, which often are not supported by donors under projects. Generic
funding problems have two features, namely unavailability of funds and the budg= procss. In
general, schemes do not have secure financing commitments when they are started and projects are
often delayed by lack of funding for advanced action prior to Loan effectiveness.
2.15  Envionmentl Constraints. There has been only limited consideration of the environmental
impact of irrigated agricultural development. This reflects the fact that irrigation projects generally
have been planned, designed and implemented as civil works rather than as development operations.
Nominal attention has been given to the adverse effects of irrigation development on the surrounding
area and the long-term environmental impacts. Thus, the needs are becoming acute (particularly in
Java) to protect and conserve water and other natural resources, and to provide better management for
catchment areas. The growing competition for water between various users has also revealed the
need for proper management of all water resources at the river basin level. This must include
appropriate measures for alocation of surface water and groundwater and to ensure that their
chemical/biological quality is maintained at sustainable levels. Fnally, particularly on the Outer
Islands, involuntary resetdement is not always planned and implemented with a thorough analysis and
understanding of its sustainability, and with sensitivity to the needs of the population affected.
2.16                                                         001 activities and Bank-
supported operations for groundwater irrigation development in Indonesia have been relatively limited
and mainly concentrated on Java. From 1968, systematic groundwater explorations were initiated in
Kederi-Nganjuk, Madiun and Madura with bilateral support from the United Kingdom (UK) and
others. During 1976-79, groundwater exploration was extended to cover other areas in East Java
province, again with UK assistance. Some exploratory activities progressed to include small pilot
groundwater irrigation developments in East Java. In 1982, the East Java Groundwater Development
Project was launched as a component of the Bank-supported Irigation XVII Project (Loan 2119-
IND) aiming to develop some 6,300 ha of groundwater irrigation. In 1983, the Madiun-Solo
Groundwater Pilot Schemes were initiated to provide irgation to about 6,703 ha. By 1985, all
groundwater development projects in East Java, except for Madura, were merged into the Java Timur
Groundwater Development Project which continued into FY 1988/89. Meanwhile, the Madura
initiatives progressed slowly with continuing UK and (lattely) with EEC assistance.
2.17 The East Java developments were conceived initillly to provide supplementary irrigation to
parts of surface water systems which had marked deficit supplies in the dry season. The belief was
that wells should be designed to maximize discharges to obtain lowest costs per unit volume of water.
It then became apparent that such conjunctive use systems were very difficult to manage, particularly
with the very large command areas implicit with high discharge wells. Subsequently, in the mid
1980's, wells were located where they would provide the sole source of irrigation supply. This
period also saw recognition that lined conveyance systems were required to deliver the expensive
pumped water supplies efficiently to the fields. Aftrexpe imentation with various forms of channel
lining, most of the systems were completed with factory-wade, steam-cured, precast concrete units,
which have proved to be physically efficient. However, experments with buried PVC pipe systems
revealed that these had cost, construction and opaional advantages over any type of open channel
lining. An important institutional development of this period was the establishment of WUAs in
accordance with the Presidential Instruction No. 2 of 1984 (para 1.15). Subsequently, tubewell
irrigation facilities in East Java were handed over to WUAs for management, albeit with initial
Government support (two years) for costs of fuel supply, pump operators' salary and maintenance.



- 10-
Responsibility for major facility replacements still remains with Government, though large scale
replacement of pump units and wells have yet to be required (para 6.15).
2.18  The ISSP (Ln. 2880-IND, 1988) included a component for groundwater development, which
included some development on the Outer Islands, in addition to East Java. A review revealed that,
apart from an investigation then approaching compledon on Lombok (which was receiving Italian
assistance), the status of knowledge of groundwater conditions in the Outer Islands was nominal 11/
A groundwater reconnaisace in Central and South Sulawesi indicated that, although there was some
groundwater potential for irrigadon, this was likely to occur in small pockets that could not justify
detailed exploration inputs before development was initiated. Moreover, the previous practice of
having a prolonged exploration phase (as in East Java) had not been particularly cost-effective. A
process was therefore proposed to implement small progmams of exploratory wells in selected areas
with likely groundwaterpotential. These well points then would be converted to production wells if
they prove successful, and the development program progressively expanded. This 'expansion'
approach has been implemented with fair success in Central and South Sulawesi.
2.19 Other successful features of the ISSP groundwater component were: introduction of the
intermediate technology tubewell (ITTW); use of buried PVC pipe for conveyance systems; and
introduction of PVC pipes and screens for well construction. The ITIW concept (para 3.07) was the
most important design advance, since this recogzed that groundwater conditions in many areas were
suitable for relatively shallow tubewells equipped with centifugl pumps to serve command areas of
about 10 ha through buried PVC pipe distribution systems. the lTTW facilities have important
advantages over the deep tubewell (DTW) facilities previously installed by Goverrunent, including:
(a) lower capital COStS per unit area; (b) relatively easy maintenance and replacement of equipment;
and (c) smaller numbers of beneficiaries per well and thus more manageable WUAs.
2.20 Lessons learned from the ISSP groundwatercomponent (to be addressed under the project),
include: (a) combining exploration and pilot development, leading rapidly to full development, must
be applied with care; (b) supervision of construction must be properly organized and quaity control
improved; (c) procurement should be timely with equipment properly specified; (d) more emphasis
should be given to the post construction phase through closely coordinated government support
agencies; (e) community participation and W UA traimning should be strengthened; and (f) monitoring
and evaluation of development impact needs substantial strengthening.
2.21 In Java, there has been a considerable expansion of private sector fmanced development of
groundwater for iigation using shallow tubewell (STW) technology since the early 1980's (para
1.10). This development has taken place with very limited support from Govenmuent An attempt to
improve the construction technology of STWs under ISSP (through DGWRD) was abandoned
because well performance was generally very poor. It is now considered that the farmer-developed
well construction technology is cost-effective and can not easily be improved. A Japanese aid-
assisted project, initiated in 1991, has a component intended to extend the STW technology to a
selectd area of West Timor. This project provides 100 percnt subsidy for capital cost, all inputs for
the first year of operation and very heavy extension support through consultancy services. The
overall effectiveness and economic viability of this approach is yet to be demonstated.
2.22 The Central Java Groundwater Irrigadon Project, financed by ADB in 1991, was originally
conceived to have a significant farmer contribution to capital costs through credit. However,
Indonesia's recent deregulation of the financial sector, and particularly phasing out of liquidity credit
to rural institutions, has increased the cost of borrowing (annual interest of 25-30 percent) beyond
most farmers' capacity to pay. The ADB project will therefore now construct ITrW and DTW
groundwater irrigation facilities (very similar to those installed under ISSP and as intended under the
proposed project) with all initial capital costs met by Govenment. Beneficiaries will be responsible
1/ Sumbawa and Went Tmor Sand, sect of gromdwae elration with CIDA adsi in 197841, were not
induded under tie ISSP program, since tr deveopment was akeady beig suppoed by USAID.



- 11- 
for O&M costs and the replacement costs of pumps and power units. The proposed project intends to
require similar support from beneficiaries (para 6.15).
Pxposed Strategy and Rationale fcw Bank Inolvement
2.23  Govemment St=         . Government's objectives for rice-based farming systms in surface
water irrigated lowlands are to: maintain food security; facilitate crop diversification during the
second crop season; alleviate poverty; and support regional development. Goverment's 1987 Polic
Statementfor the Ei&an Subsector defined these inigation policy objectives and laid a bss for the
subsector priorities. These are: (a) introduce sound O&M practices so that irrigation systems can be
sustained, (b) increase local revenue generadon and cost recovery from beneficiaries; (c) turn over
(privatize) smaller government irrigation schemes to farmer groups; and (d) complete viable high-
priority projects, particularly those with large sunk investments. In carrying out the last objective,
Government has recendy expressed its intention of focusing increasingly on the integradon of
agricultjral development activities along with development of physical infrastucu  to fuly and more
quickly realize potential agicultural benefits. Groundwater development has imwpotance in the overall
strategy because it can support irrigated agriculture in some areas where surface irrigation is not
feasible. Moreover, it can be directed to support poverty alleviadon, regional development and crop
diversification. Thus, the overall strategy is to concentrate groundwater development in the rainfed
areas where poverty is prevalent, particularly in the Outer Islands.
2.24 Bank Sttegy. The Bank fully supports the Government's objectives of sustained growth in
the agricultural sector, focus on reductuon of rural poverty, increased producdve employment
opportunities in rural areas, and a more balanced regional distribution of growth. The Bank strategy
is to reflect the lessons learned from PCRs and OED audits in respect to both the portfolio
management and lending strategy, and incorporate these into a continuing sector dialogue with
Government. The Bank strongly supports Governments focuses on ensuring the efficiency and
sustainability of past irrigation investments, on improved irrigation water resource management, and
on water allocation given competing demands. This strategy is needed to sustain the growth in
production of food grains required to meet the growing consumption demand. The Bank support
would focus most in areas of institutional structure, organizational strengthening and human resource
development, particularly in the context of multipurpose management of water.
2.25 The Bank strategy would be pursued through a coordinated lending program with each
operaion focused on inportant and complementary objectives. In this respect
(a) The Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Development Project (PIADP, Ln. 3302-IND) supports
integrated development and completion of schemes, and develops institutional mechanisms
and procedures for irngated agriculture in the Outer Islands, with emphasis on planning and
design o irrgation works, land development and related agricultural aspect
(b) The Second Irigation Subsector Project (ISSP 11, Ln. 3392-IND) focuses on strengthening
of O&M-related insdtutions, cost recovery for inigation services, tumover of small schemes
to farmer groups, and on improved management and allocation of water resources both at
the scheme level and in a river basin context, primarily in Java.
(c)  The proposed Groundwater Development Project and the Itgrted Swamps Development
Project (under preparation) would exploit water resources in less developed regions and
specificaly promote regional equity and support poverty alleviation.
(d) Looking to the future, the Bank would support the overall strategy through the proposed
Java Water Resource Management Project and the proposed Dam Safety PzojecL



- 12-
2.26 A recent Bank agricultural sector review for Indonesia 1/ analyses the potential and rationale
for expansion of the irrigated area to meet the needs for food production, particularly to maintain self-
sufficiency in rice production to year 2010. The report indicates that there are 2.7 million ha
identified as 'fully suitable' for new irrigation development, and, in addition, there are 0.5 million ha
of land located within irrigation command areas which are not served with water. Since only some 26
percent of this land is in Java and Bali, most of the potential for irrigation expansion is in the Outer
Islands. The report envisages that new irrigated area will be developed at a rate of about 35,000 ha
per year to replace area lost to urban expansion and rural settlement, and for regional development
policy reasons, primarily to combat poverty. Groundwater development would have a significant role
in achieving this increase in new irrigated land.
2.27 Rationale for Bank Involvement. The main rationale for Bank involvement is that the
proposed project would: (a) consolidate the groundwater development in Indonesia; (b) address the
main lessons leared to date; (c) give increased attention to community participation and achieving full
potential benefits; (d) support GOs efforts to develop groundwater as a multipurpose resource; and
(e) give focused support to strengthening institutional arrangements for groundwater resource
management and regulation. Continued Bank support of groundwater development would be
justified because it accords with GOrs objectives for regional development, equity and poverty
alleviadon, in areas without surface irrigation potential. Moreover, the project would provide
important opportunities for community participation in irrigation system development, O&M, cost
recovery, and water use management
m. TEPOCI
A. Jre Cm= ad QWj£XSs
3.01 EProect Concept. The proposed project would standardize the approach to groundwater
development covering most areas of Indonesia 2/ with known groundwater potential. This would
provide an opportunity to systematically address many generic subsector lessons leamed for previous
groundwater projects including: (a) strengthening institudonal arrangements, interagency
coordination, and community participation activities; and (b) standardization of criteria, procedures
and processes related to the planning, design, implementation and O&M of groundwater facilities.
Justification for the geographical spread of the project and the number of components is detailed in
Annex 5. The project supervision requirements by the Bank are estimated in Annex 16.
3.02  ProjecQOjecve. A major project objecdve would be to develop groundwater irrigation in
less developed regions to help alleviate hard core poverty. Technical objectives would be to promote
multipurpose use of groundwater resources and to develop least cost, appropriate technology that can
be sustained by user groups with minimal public sector support. Thus the project would enable full
beneficiary participation in development and O&M of the irrigation systems, and would assist GOI in
strengthening its planning and implementation capacity for groundwater development In addition,
the project would give specific support to: (a) agricultural development activities; (b) interagency
coordination at national and provincial levels; (c) quality control procedures; (d) encouraging the role
of women as part of the communuity participation activities; (e) monitoring and evaluation of irrigation
and agricultural production performance; and (f) strengthening the monitoring, evaluation and
regulaton of groundwater resources.
3.03 EPrject Stratgy. The project would be structured as a six-year operation. The first year
would cover mainly detailed preparation of work programs and procurement. In the following years,
the project would implement annual work programs, with activities to be defined and agreed through
an annual review process scheduled to fit in with the Government's budgetary process (para 5.26).
This approach would provide the flexibility needed to respond to inevitable unknowns in groundwater
I Agriculal Tansfmaon: Challenges ad Oppounte Septmber 1992; Report No. 10504-IND.
2/ Aceh, Noth and West Sumata, Lampung, West and East Java, North, Central and South Sulawesi, NTB (Lmbek,
Sumbawa) and NT rI(runor). Centml Java is covered under an ongoing ADB supported projecL



- 13 -
development, particularly the limited hydrogeological data in some proposed locations in the Outer
Islands.
3.04 .roect Scoge. Development areas have been identified in eleven provinces for the
construction of: (a) some 1,900 intermediate technology tubewells (1T`Ws) to serve about 18,650
ha, (b) some 240 deep tubeweUs (DTWs) to serve about 6,000 ha. In addition, a pilot program using
shallow tubewells (STWs) would develop about 500 ha (para 3.12). The proposed schemes would
be screened to confirm that they provide the least cost facility for any paricular development area.
The schemes have been categorized under two programs - a 'go-ahead' program with limited
associated risks, and an 'expansion' program which would be implemented only after nsks have been
reduced to acceptable levels throught monitoring performance of existing tubewell developments and
confirmation of available groundwater resources (para 3.20). About 15,300 ha of groundwater
development have been included under the 'go-ahead' program with some 9,350 ha under the
'expansion' cateaory. A detailed breakdown of the proposed development by scheme area, facility
type and under go-ahead' and 'expansion' programs is shown in Annex 1, Table 1, and proposed
annuai implementation programs are shown in Annex 1, Table 6.
B. Projiect Components
3.05 The project would finance all activities until tubewells schemes can be demonstrated to be in
full operation after two years of O&M support. Major components would include: (a) survey,
investigation and design; (b) construction of tubewell systems serving about 25,000 ha; (c) initial
O&M support for two years after commissioning of tubewell systems; (d) provision of domestic
water supply and house garden irrigation facilities; (e) agricultural development activities, including
strengthening of extension services; (f) community support, including training and strengthening of
WUAs and activities related to the role of women; and (g) institutional support for design,
implementation, supervision and monitoring and evaluation of project performance. Technical
assistance through consultancy services would be provided to support the above activities, as
necessary. The project would also strengthen groundwater monitoring networks by construction and
equippig of observation wells, provide water quality monitoring equipment, and provide training for
PRIS staff in the project provinces on groundwater resources evaluation.
C.   ailEn=  of the Pro
3.06  .Suny. Investigon. I2eig} (SD). The SID activities would relate to the site and facility
selection screening process, planning and design of the irrigation facilities and, where applicable, the
domestic water supply works (Annex 5). A major objective of the SI) activities would be to evaluate
the technical, social and economic viability of each proposed development area. The process would
decide the appropriate technology and assess the need for domestic water supply, and with full
participation of potential beneficiaries, sequentially undertake the steps in the screening, planning and
design process. The SID process would be applied to all tubewell schemes to assess: (a) adequacy
of physical resources (groundwater availability and quality, soils, topography, rainfall); (b) land
ownership and related issues; (c) beneficiary commitment to managing and sustaining the works; and
(d) foreseen agricultural impact. The SID work would be undertaken by P2AT staff with the
assistance of consultant sevics. Esdmated costs are given in Annex 3, Tables 1 to 11.
3.07  Innwdiame Technology Tubewell aITI=V1 Facilides. The 1TIW facilities are planned in all
provinces. The standard facility is based on tubewells designed for discharges of about 10 liters per
second (V/sec) to serve command areas of about 10 ha, with proportionately larger command areas
served when higher well discharges can be obtained in practice. The wells would be equipped with
centrifugal pumps powered by diesel motors restricting the technology to areas where groundwater
conditions are suitable for sucdon mode pumping. The wells would be dri!led to depths of about 40-
70 m, depending on local hydrogeological conditions and, in most cases, fully lined with casing and
screen and gravel packing as required. Where aquifer formations would stand in open hole
(limestone or sandstone), screens would be omitted and only an upper well PVC casing would be
insalled. Block or brick lined sumps up to 3.0 m deep would be provided on the well head, when
necessaiy, to extend the range of suction mode pumping. A simple block or brick-built pump house



- 14-
would be provided. Water distribution would be through buried PVC pipe to tumout boxes with
alfalfa valves commanding about 1.0 ha, and then through earth channels to the fields. Typical
designs and selection of sites are discussed in Annex 5. Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 5,
Tables 2, 4 and 5 for the wells, distribution systems, and pump sets respectively.
3.08       vnibewell MTM) Facil. The DTW facilities are planned only in East and West Java,
Lampung and Lombok in areas where the groundwater conditions are not suitable for rITWs. They
would be based on tubeweLls designed for discharges of about 20 to 30 I/sec to serve command areas
of about 20-30 ha. The wells would be equipped with vertcal shaft turbine pump units The wells
would be drilled to depths of 70110 m. Most wells would be fully lined and screened with PVC
tubular materials and would be gravel packed. Where aquifer formatons would stand in open hole
(as for ITTWs), only an upper well PVC casing would be installed A block or brick-built pump
house would be provided. The vertical shaft turbine pumps would be powered through belt drive by
diesel motors eqWpped with inerta startng mechanisms. Distribution would be through buried PVC
pipe to turnout boxes wih alfalfa valves coanding about 1.0 ha, and then rough ear channels
to the fields. Typical designs are discussed in Annex 5. Detailed costimates are given in Annex 5,
Tables 3,4 and 5 for the wells, distribution systems, and pump sets respectively.
3.09  Initial Suot for O&M of Facilides. A basic project objective is to develop tubewell
irigation facilities that can be transfered to user groups (WUAs) for management with minima public
sector suporT Tubewell facilities will be sited in areas where farmers are poor and generally have no
previous experence of irrigation or management of a group facility (Annex 4). Thus, once tubewell
iigation facilities are certified by P2AT as complete for commissioning, an essential project activity
would be initial support of WUAs for the O&M of facilities. The project would therefore support full
O&M costs for two years after the date of comissioning, including, inter alia: supply of fuel and
lubricants; routine maintenance; the tubewell operator's salary; and the incremental staffing costs to
provide the WUAs with technical advice on all aspects of O&M and the management of the facilites.
HIowever, during the O&M support period, beneficiaries would be expected to pay an irgation
service fee to the WUA so that the associate could accumulate funds for subsequent O&M of
facilities, including routine maintenance and repairs (para 6.14). The scope and estimated costs of
this component for each province are given in Annex 3, Tables I to I l.
3.10  Domesi Wt Suolv (DWS) Facilities. Project tubewells would be located primarily for
agricultural objectives but, once sited, multipurpose use of the water source would be evaluated. In
this process, the potential impact of a project tubewell on existing water supply wells would be
assessed and the use of the irrigation tubewell water source for new DWS facilities would be
examined. The assessments would be undertaken with full participation of the potential beneficiaries
(Annex 4). Wher demand is recognizd, the project would provide DWS facilities appropriate to the
site conditions and the number of beneficiaries to be served. The simplest facility would be a low
level strage tank with tap outlets connected to an itrigation tubewell facility when this is located close
to a settlements. It would be managed by a typical WUA (primarily established to manage the
irrigation facility). More complex viage water supply facilities, as adjuncts to tubewell irrigation
systems, could reticulate wel water supply to the public water points, or into individual house
compounds 11. Planning and design criteria for DWS 2/, and the process and procedures for
community participation are discussed in Annexes 4 and 5.
3.11  Hueard rigiO Facilities, A challenge with most irrigation schemes in Indonesia is to
effectively reach rral families which are either landless, or have holdings that are too small to
produce an income from agricultural production. For these poor households, it is generally assumed
that the increased laborrequirement for irrigated agriculture would provide employment opportunities
to be supplemented with oter non-farm work. However, the project would also test and demonstrate
1/ Such acities have been insaled on irigadon ubewels under de Madura Groundwater Project and required separate
WUAs for te domestic wat suWly Sfties, since these woiks invoved secondary pwunpin&
2/ The prposed desips are to cnitena acceptable to Cipta Karya of MPW.



- 15 -
that additional income source could be provided for rural households by developing irrigation for
house gardens (para 3.12).
3.12  Ag   e veIn aL   lo~mcnL Though Government agencies exist to provide the entire range of
agricultural support senrices, past history of agricultural support to groundwater irrigation
development has been less than satisfactoiy (Annex 9). This reflects the fact that tubewell command
areas are small and scattered and their extension requirements do not fit well within the existing
organizadonal arrangements of tne PRAS. The project would therefore support agricultural
development activities to ensure achievement of predicted irrigated agricultural benefits through
coordinated actions with MOA at the center and the PRAS in the roject provinces. Such activities
would be location specific and include: support of additional sta mg, facilities and equipment for
agricultural extension services; seeds for high value crop trials and demonstation; training for farmers
groups for both tubewell command areas and house garden enterprises (para 3.10); and development
of marketing arrangements. In addition, the project would support a pilot program of shallow
tubewells (STWs) to develop about 500 ha using some 250 'taxi' pump sets. The scope and
esdmated costs of agricultural development activities are given in Annex 3, Table 13. The project
would also provide for technical assistce under the consultant sevices to assist MOA and the PRAS
to assist in the preparation of agricultural action plans focused on groundwater development. More
general support for agricultural research and extension would be forthcoming from projects and
programs available in Indonesia under other finmcing sources (ADB, IBRD and other donors).
3.13  _mmuniI Emipadn&tivides. Govemnment's stategy is to minimize the public sector
role in groundwater development by introducing appropriate technology that can be managed and
sustained by the beneficiaries. Ful community participaton is essential to support this strategy
because the beneficiaries must fully accept their responsibilites and condidtons under which facilities
will be provided. Thus the project would support additional staffing, services, transportation,
facilities and equipment required for support of commurity involvement in the development process,
and for establishment and training of WUAs. The project would also support community
participation activities specifically focused to encourage and enhance the role of women in the project
impact areas (para 3.23). The community partcipation activities are descrbed in Annex 4.
3.14  Insitutional S u  Most project activities are simple and straight forward (i.e., routine
planning, design, and implementation of facilities, and initial O&M tasks). In this respect, the project
continues ongoing programs which are being implemented by the existing technical agencies.
However, the insttutional performance to date needs to be strengthened, primarily for non-
construction tasks such as inter-agency coordination, agricultural development, and monitoring and
evaluation of the performance of completed works. The project would therefore finance institutional
support activities for additional project staff and for new institutional initiatives intended specifically
to implement the project and continue future groundwater development, including: office facilities;
services; transportation and office equipment; selected project-specific staff training; and support for
non-irrigation activities, particulatiy with regard to the role of women.
3.15 Office equipment would be provided for centers in each province irn which project activities
are planned and in the projects central offices in Jakarta. The equipment would include computers
and associated hardware, mainly for data processing and for reporting purposes. Transportation
would be for survey and investigation, construction supervision and to provide mobility for WUA
formation units and agricultura support staff. Iaining would be project specific and directed
priwarily to improve the quality of lower level staff such as trainers of tubewell operators, staff
responsible for establishment of WUAs and the agricultural support staff.
3.16  Groundwater ResouMangent. The project would finance activities to support the
PRIS in project provinces to take responsibility for monitoring and evaluation of groundwater
resource data (para 5.19). In this respect, the project would provide for: installation of water level
monitoring networks equipped with water level recorders; water quality monitoring equipment;
computers for data storage, retrieval and processing, incremental staff for data collection and
processing; raining for PRIS staff in groundwater resource evaluation; and special studies of the
organizatonal requirements in East Java for water resource monitoring and evaluation. The support



- 16-
would be initiated as a pilot operation in East Java, to be expanded to other provinces as soon as
possible. The items to be financed and estimated costs are given in Annex 3, Table 12.
3.17 Consultancy Services. The consultancy services would be set up to reflect that the the
proposed project covers eleven provinces of Indonesia. For rndwater dOMelmt activities, the
consultant services would be some 164 foreign and 528 local person months. The main tasks would
be to assist in: (a) the review of subproject preparation; (b) standardization of technical criteria and
procedures; (c) supervision and overall coordination of project works implementation; (d) the
monitoring, evaluation and general reporting of project inigation performance; and (e) strengthening
the PRIS in East Java and other provinces with respect to groundwater resources monitoring and
evaluation. The foreign consultants would be based in Jakarta under the PAT subdirectorate of DOI-
II in DGWRD, with individual consultants visiting subprojects in all project provinces as required.
The consultancy input would include some 22 person months for item (e) above. In addidon, there
would be two regional teams of local consultants to provide direct support to P2AT offices in the
provinces. One would be located in Surabaya to support activities in East Java, North, Central and
South Sulawesi, and NTB and NTT, and the second in Jakarta for West Java and the project
provinces in Sumatra. For agicultuml developet and npae community pation activities,
the consultant services under MOA would be some 130 foreign and 396 local person months. The
main task of the consultants would be to assist in: (a) agricultural aspects of the preparation and
analysis of the subprojects; (b) supervision and overall coordinaton of provision of agricultural
support services; and (c) monitoring and evaluation and general reportng of the project's agricultural
perfonmance. The local consultant teams would include a WID specialist. Draft terms of reference
for both consultancy services are given in Annex 13. The estimated costs of the consultant services
are given in Annex 3, Table 14. An assurance was obtained that Government, by September 30,
1993, would employ consultant services to assist with project implementation and supervision under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
D. Status gf enaraton gnd  lmenato Schedule
3.18  Status of eprtio. The project has been prepared by the line agencies at national level in
consultation with the provinces with the assistance of consultants employed by DGWRD. The
preparation report was submitted in July 1991, and following discussions between the Bank and
GOI, a major addendum was submitted early in 1992. This addendum reformulated the project to
better reflect the present performance of existing groundwater development and resulted in changes to
the project assumptions including: agricultural objectives; consultancy services inputs; revisions to
the project analysis; and new initiatives and procedures related to community participation and the role
of women. Additional consultancy inputs, financed by the Italian Trust Fund for Special Studies,
were provided from March through August 1992 to pursue further aspects of the preparation study
and to assist Government in finalizing the first year's work progrdm.
3.19  The project concept envisages that all groundwater development would be ba&  ~n planning
and design criteria, implementation processes and procedures, and institutional arrangt-.aents which
are standardized and coordinated. The first year of project implementation would include start-up
work progreums and procurement of equipment and materials for all project locations that are presendy
well defined on technical, social and economic grounds, and can be undertaken with minimum risk.
In the remaining five years, the project would support similar programs (or continuation of the initial
work programs) to be defined and agreed during an annual review process with the Bank (para 5.25).
3.20  The work programs would be divided into 'go-ahead' and 'expansion' programs. The 'go
ahed part of a program can be implemented immediately and the 'expansion' part would proceed
when: (a) tubewell perfomwance has been sufficiendy monitored to confirm the availability of reliable
goundwater resources for the additional development proposed; and (b) existing tubewells have
satisfied agreed performance ctiteria. This approach of 'go-ahead' and 'expansion' work programs
would provide the flexibility needed to reflect the inevitable uncertainties in groundwater
development. At the present stage, 15,300 ha of development are categorized as 'go-ahead', while
9,350 ha are in the 'expansion' category (para 3.04). Assurances were obtained that Government
would cause the project executing agencies to: (a) locate, screen, select and commission project



- 17-
schemes in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank; and (b) itmplement the
project in accordance to technical, financial, administradve, agricultural and environmental practices,
standards and criteria satisfactory to the Bank. An assurance was also obtained from Government
that, prior to implementation of schemes under 'expansion' areas, it would cause DGWRD to
undertake studies in the 'expansion' areas, satisfactory to the Bank, to confir that: (a) existing
tubewells in the area perform to agred performance criteria; (b) groundwater resources are sufficient
in quantity and quality for the proposed development; and (c) proposed schemes are technically and
socially viable.
3.21  Implemntation Schedule. The implementation schedule is shown by province, subproject
and type of irrigation facility in Annex 1, Table 6 and by province and component, expressed as
annual expenditures, in Annex 3, Tables 1 to 14. Subprojects in 'expansion' areas have been
provisionally scheduled to reflect insdtutional implementation capabUlity 1/. The implementation
schedule would be updated annually to reflect progress in the previous year and confirmed by about
May/June each year during an annual review process so that budget provisions and other resources
can be planned for the following fiscal year. The review process would decide what 'expansion'
schemes can be taken into the 'go-ahead' program (para 3.20). In this respect, assurances were
obtained that Government would submit to the Bank for its review and comments, for each province
under the project: (a) not later than September 30 each year, a coordinated work program and cost
estimates for the next fiscal year, and (b), by December 31 each year, coordinated budget proposals
for the agreed provincial work programs.
E. Ennm    An
3.22 Groundwater development in the designated project areas would not involve clearance of
natural vegetation, and any negative impact on the groundwater resources would be signalled through
the monitoring system (para 3.16) and forestalled by appropriate adjustments to the development
program in any affected area. The social impact would be positive through poverty alleviation and
improved incomes in agricultural areas which have limited alternative sources of income. The social
objectives would be achieved through full community participation in the planning process.
Environmental aspects to be given special attention in the planning process, detailed in Annex 15,
would include: (a) groundwater availability, particularly in coastal areas with risks of saline intrusion;
(b) competing uses of groundwater, and in particular, possible impact of project wells on domestic
water wells; and (c) biological and chemical water quality when facilities would povide village water
supply in addition to inigation. Social equity considerations would be given attention, in particular,
the position of tenant farmers, those with very smal farm holdings, and the landless. The intention to
develop irrigated house gardens would enable such disadvantaged families to be reached (para 3.10).
To ensure environmental considerations are fully taken into account, studies would be undertaken in
project areas, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that both water quantity and quality and social equity
considerations are taken into account in the project development process. This test would be a
specific criteria in the project planning and design process for each subproject area (para 3.20).
F. ole of Women
3.23 The project includes support to specifically enhance and encourage the role of women in
project activities as described in Annex 12. Studies in Indonesia have shown that there is an
important potential for a greater involvement of women in initiating and managing income generating
activities relating to irrigation, such as small scale cultivation and marketing of produce. Women also
have the main responsibility for management of domestic water use, family hygiene and maintenance
of clean households and compounds. When a group activity is managed by a mixed gender group,
such as a domestic water supply (DWS) system, it is often the women who are responsible for user
fee collection, bookkeeping, and day-to-day supervision of the systems. Many women have been
1/If the planned target to be developed in one province cannot be achieved, the pogm can be transferred to another
province, sice the overall groundwater development potential in the prqject area substantialy exceeds the project
objecfive of developing about 25,000 ha over six years.



18-
trained in the maintenance of DWS systems and are often mome responsive to the opeational problems
of such schemes as they are the first to suffer from disruptions in supplies. The project would give
special attendon to this potendal by involving women in the development process and encouraging
their participation in facilty management.
3.24  The projects success depends on full community pardcipation in all stages of the development
process. In many project locations, the facilities provided would be the first significant public
investment affecting the community and would thus provide an opportunity to reach the women.
Seveal strategies would be used to fully involve women in the context of the community participation
including: (a) an institutional arrangement to enable project funding to reach the women's activities;
(b) specific criteria and procedures to ensure their full participatdon in the planning, design and
implementation stages of the project; (c) support of acdvitif s with a special interest to women,
including the I)WS and house garden iIngation components; and (d) use of community based
women's organizations to encourage women's participation. In addidon, the project would ensure
that the projecfs objectives and development opportnites are known to other government agencies
and to NGOs with programas focustd on women m the project locations.
IV. P&Q=COSTS AND TNANCING
frject Costs
4.01 Total project cost, including physical contingencies and expected price increases, is estimated
at Rv 174.1 billion (US$ 84.9 mmllion) with a foreign exchange component of some US$ 34.4
million, or about 41 percent. Cost estimates are based on October 1992 prices and include taxes and
duties computed at about Rp 15.1 billion (US$ 6.8 nmllion). Csvil works estimates are derived from
costs of similar groundwater development recendy completed under the Bank-supported ISSP I (Ln.
2880-1ND), updated to reflect price increases. Cost estimates for equipment, materials and vehicles
are based on recent price quotadons from suppliers, or prices of similar goods recently purchased by
various government agencies. Consultant staff costs are based on experience with recent contracts for
foreign and local consultant services in Indonesia. Physical contingencies to allow for possible
quantity and design variations have been assessed at up to a maximum of 10 percent of individual
item costs. Price contingencies assume increases in local currency costs of 5.5 percent per annum
(based on expected domestic inflation), and in foreign exchange costs of 3.1 percent per annum in FY
1993 and thcreafter. Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.1 below and detailed by
provinces and components in Annex 1, Table 2 and Annex 3, Tables I to 14.
Table4.1   9  C        al
Iam   De slc  Ruimn  Mad   Ladm  Foruin   Imal   EE    % Of
Rp Billion- -        -        USS Miion   -   %    Ra
A. Wodss
- Tubewef inigaion works   38.7    1.6   40.2   18.9    0.7    19.6    3.9   27.8
- Domedicwatersupplyworks  1.4    2.1    3.5    0.7    1.0    1.7   60.0    2.4
- Obsavadonwells        0.4    0.2    0.6    0.2    0.1        0.3    30.0    0.4
B.  Squi andMals
- Tubeweil equipme & maerials 4.7   42.6   47A  2.3   20.8   23.1    90.0   32.7
- Of iceand swvey equipment  1.0    1.0    2.0    OA   0.5    0.9    49.3    1.3
- Vehicles b/           0.2    1.3    1.5    0.1    0.6        0.7   90.0    1.0
C. Services
. Survey. invesagarion and design 1.7    0.0    1.7    0.8    0.0    0.8    0.O    1.1
- Agdionkural support   1.7    0.0    1.7    0.8    0.0    0.8         0.0    1.1
- Insdhuional support c(  10.3    0.0   10.3    5.0    0.0    5.0      0.0    7.1
* InidalO&Msupport      5.4    0.0    5.4    2.6    0.0    2.6         n.G    3.7
D.  Tning                       3.3    0.0    3.3    1.6    0.0        1.6    0.0    2.3
E.  C_yservices                 9.0   11.7   20.7    4.4    5.7    10.1    56A    14.3
_ Special Stedias        1.1    0.0    1.1    0.6    0.0    0.6    0.0    1.3
F.  Pro,ject    _ n                    Qini2                   QQ ;io°-°ZJ
t          84.S   60.   144.9   41.2   29A    70.6   41.7  100.0
Physiealoontigeies         3.0    3.5    6.5    1.5    1.7    3.2    53.4    4.5
price 6.ti0e              I6           22.2    LA                 i 
Total oie ctost  103.6   70.5   174.1   50.5   34.4    84.9    40.5  120.2
a, Includingtaxes and duties, esdmaed at USS 6.8 million equialu. bf reserved pcureamu
S, Icludincomnwzlty pariipto sctvie and es_blsbmtof water use ussocagdns (WUAs).



- 19-
PtioietPnancing
4.02 The proposed Bank loan of US$ 54.0 million equivalent would finance about 64 percent of
the total project cost (US$ 84.9 million) inclusive of taxes, dudes and reserved procurement for
vehicles. GOI would finance the remaining project costs of US$ 30.9 million from its development
bud et. The project financing plan is summarized in Table 4.2 below, and detailed in Annex 1,
Table 5.
Table 42 Projet Financing P1an
EnLo                                       Lal Cos  ForeigCncost   TotalC
US$ Miion
Ban               21.0         33.0           54.0         64percent at
001                             -1A           39           36
Toal              50.5          34A           84.9        lOOpecet
af About 70 percent of the project cost (US$ 77.4) exclusive of taxes, duties and reserved procuement for vehicles.
4.03 Waos. The procurement under the project would be undertaken by the implementing
agencies at national and Provincial levels, as appropriate, as described in Annex 14. The civil works
(US$ 27.6 million), including construction of irrigation and domestic water supply facilities and
observation wells, would be widely dispersed at many subproject locations in eleven provinces. The
estimated 86 small contracts will be packaged as much as possible, however, none are likely to
exceed US$ 1.0 million. They would therefore be implemented under LCB contracts let by the
concerned provincial offices (Annex 14, Table 1) and following procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
4.04  Goods. Procurement of the large packages of materials and  ui=n (US$ 26.7 million)
required for construcdon of the groundwater facilides (well casings and screens, drilling equipment
spare parts, drilling bits, drilling mud, PVC pipes and fittings for distribution system, diesel motor
powered pump sets) would attract foreign competition. Therefore, procurement of these goods
would be on the basis of ICB procedures. For bid comparisons, local manufacturers would be
allowed a 15 percent (of the c.i.f. price) margin of preference or the applicable customs duties,
whichever is lower. Small amounts of materials (US$ 0.9 million) which can be fabricated locally
(outlet valves, PVC storage tanks for DWS works, etc.) would be procured by LCB tenders let by
provincial project offices. Most ohrm  iAmnt (US$ 0.7 million), including office and survey
equipment and computers, would be required by project offices in each of the project provinces.
However, procurement of these goods would be centralized using quantities and specifications drawn
up by the project coordination unit after consultation with provincial prtect offices. The procurement
would be by LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank (US$ 0.4 miUlion) or by local shopping tUS$
0.3 million). Foreign firms would not be precluded from bidding, but would not generally be
interested in the goods to be procured under LCB procedures. Government regulations prohibit
importation of vehicles. Thus, vehicles (US$ 0.7 million) would be classified as reserved
procurement and not be financed under the Loan. An assurance was obtained from Government that
vehicles required for the project would be acquired under a schedule agreed with the Bank.
4.05  Services. Services related to srev. investigation and design    ) services (US$ 0.9
million), ag&ulniral s urc (US$ 1.0 million), instilutional suppr (US$ 5.9 million), initial Q&M
(US$ 3.2 million), and training acti3ities (US$ 1.9 million) would not be suitable for international
competition because these activities are widely scattered, small in size, and schemne specific, both in
location and scheduling. They would be undertaken either departmentally following selected
procedures acceptable to the Bank (US$ 7.6 million), or by local consultant services (US$ 5.3
million) employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
atltam"Useces to advise and assist the DGWRD and DGCFA (US$ 11.4 million) would be
employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Scial  dies
related to appropriate technology, groundwater resource monitoring and evaluation and agricultural



-20-
support of community and WID activides (US$ 0.6 million) would be undertaken by consultant
services employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
4.06   The procurement arrangements are sununaized in Table 4.3 below:
Table4.3: ErocemtPlan Al
1=1   pmiw                    ~~~~~ICB    LCB   Other bi NBF Lf   Total
1.  Wriau Sy                                    27.6                        27.6
(11.2)                     (11.2)
2.  fGads
2.1  lirigation Equipment and Materials    26.7  0.9                    27.6
(23.2)    (0.7)                    (23.9)
2.2  Office and Survey Equpment              0.4      0.3                0.7
(0.3)    (0.3)             (0.6)
2.3  Vehicles 11                                               0.7      0.7
(0.0)    (0.0)
3.  Services
3.1  Survey. nvestigation and Design                  0.9                0.9
(0.8)             (0.8)
3.2  Agricultural Support                             1.0                1.0
(0.9)             (0.9)
3.3  Institutional Support                            5.9                5.9
(3.0)             (3.0)
3.4  InitialO&M                                       3.2               3.2
(1.6)             (1.6)
3.5  Trahinig                                         1.9                1.9
(1.5)             (1.5)
4.  Cnuo1muigs
4.1  Consultant Services                             11.4               11A
(10.0)            (10.0)
4.2  Special Studies                                  0.6                0.6
(0.5)             (0.5)
5.1  Project Admiistration                                     3.4      3A
(0.0)    (0.0)
Total                               26.7     ;       25.2      4.1      84.9
(23.2)   (12.2)   (18.6)    (0.0)   (54.0)
t Inclusive of contngenies, taxes and duties; figures rounded to one decimal point; pareathesis indicate Bank financing.
k/blnludes shopping, services carried out departmently and consult  services. £/ Not Bank fianced.
I/ Icluding works for ifrigaion, domestc water supply and observation wells. LI Reserved prcument for vehicles.
4.07 Review of Procurement. Ihe Bank would review only the equipment and materials contracts
estimated to cost US$ 200,000 equivalent or over before they are tendered and awarded. Thus prior
review is expected to cover about 16 contracts and about 95 percent of the goods by value. As works
will be procured following LOB procedures and their size would be small (less than US$ 1.0
million), these contacts would be subject to random post-award review. Contracts or works and
goods would be based on model bid documents approved by the Government and Bank. Invitation
documents, proposed awards and contracts for consultant services would be reviewed by the Bank.
Disbursements
4.08   JImlementation Period. Disbursements under the Loan are expected to be completed by
September 30, 1999, about six years after Board approval. The Loan closing date is December 31,
1999. The disbursement profile for past investment projects in the irrigadon subsector in Indonesia
has stretched over about eight years. However, the proposed project constitutes a six-year time slice
of an investment program, and groundwater development is not generally susceptible to the delays
experienced in compledng surface water irrigation schemes. The schedule of disbursements is given
in Annex 1, Table 3, and the detailed implementation schedules of the project components indicate



-21 -
that this disbursement schedule is feasible. The target areas for development in each of the provinces
are feasible in relation to the institutional implementation capacity in the provinces.
4.09  Lo  AlloQa on. The proposed allocation of the Loan and percentage of expenditures to be
financed are given in Annex 1, Table 4. Disbursements would be as follows: (a) 40 percent of
expenditures on civil works, including irrigation, domestic water supply and observation wells; (b)
100 percent of foreign expenditures (CIF) for directly imported equipment, 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipment, and 65 percent of locally procured
items; (c) 91 percent of expenditures for surveys, investigation and design, agricultural support
services and training; (d) 50 percent of expenditures for institutional support services and initial
O&M; and (e) 100 percent of expenditures for consultant services and special studies.
4.10 An assurance was obtained from Government that, as conditions of continuing disbursement,
for the works and irrigation equipment and materials components, it would make annual budgetary
allocations sufficient to implement the agreed annual work programs in each of the project provinces
for the fiscal year 1994/95 and each subsequent fiscal year thereafter until project completion. In this
respect, Government stated at negotiations that budgetary provisions for FY 1993/94 would be
sufficient for the agreed provincial work programs in that fiscal year.
4.11  Retroactive financi;ng up to the amount of US$ 2.0 million equivalent would be available for
expenditures after February 14, 1993 to facilitate advance action under the project, including the
procurement of irrigation materials, survey and design and consultant services (Categories 2.1, 3.1
and 4.1 of Table 4, Annex 1). Expenditures on contracts for works valued at less than US$ 1.0
million and equipment valued at less than US$ 200,000, and works executed on a force account basis
would be disbursed against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Contracts disbursed under SOEs
would be based on standard bid documents approved by the Bank and disbursement for all other
expenditures would be on the basis of full documentation. Documentation for SOE expenditures
would not be submitted to the Bank for review, but would be retained by the project implementation
units and made available for inspection by Bank supervision missions. Disbursements against SOEs
are expected to amount to about US$ 20.7 million, or about 40 percent of the Loan amount.
4.12  Sgcial Accoun. In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be established
in Bank Indonesia to be maintained by the Director General Budget in the Ministry of Finance (4MOF).
It would be used for all eligible payments made against all disbursement categories. The Bank would
make an initial deposit equivalent to US$ 4.0 million into the Special Account (equivalent to an
estimated four months of project expenditures). A monthly statement on the Special Account would
be submitted to the Bank by the Director General Budget.
Accounts and Audits
4.13 For all Government agencies, each accounting section is headed by a qualified accountant who
reports monthly on budget and financial status. Internal audit sections visit project areas quarterly and
examine local accounting records. Accounting procedures now in place are adequate to support SOE
applications. Final accounts, including consolidated receipts and expenditures statements, are
prepared at year end and meet Bank requirements. Project accounts are subject to two levels of
audits: (a) by the Inspector Generals of the Ministries of Public Works (MPW) and Agriculture
(MOA); and (b) by the Fiancial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP). Work of both
auditors has been found to be generally satisfactory on Bank-assisted irrigation and agricultural
projects.
4.14  Asswances were obtained that Govemment would cause each project executing agency at both
national and provincial levels to: (a) establish and maintain adequate and separate accounts from the
beginning of project implementation; and (b) maintain such accounts in accordance with sound and
generally recogniized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank, so as to enable these
agencies to provide annual financial statements that reflect the financial perfonnance and status of
project comonents. In addition, assurances were obtained that Government would:



-22-
(a)   keep all project related contracts, documents related to the SOEs, and orders and
receipts for at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
year m which the last withdrawal from the loan account was made;
(b)   maintain the Special Account, including records and documentation of receipts and
withdrawals, as deemed satisfactory by the Bank;
(c)   complete consolidated annual financial statements of the project for independent audit
within six months of the close of each Government fiscal year, and
(d)   undertake independent audits of each year's project consolidated accounts, including
the audits of SOEs and the Special Account, and submiit such audit reports to the Bank
within nine months of the close of each Government fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZAT(IN AND MANAGEMENT
A. Background
5.01 Groundwater irrigadon development in the public sector has concentrated mainly on
construction of facilities. More attention needs to be paid to community participation in planning,
d esign and implementation of the works and to agricultural support services. Governmentpolicy is to
provide initial O&M support for completed tubewell facilities (para 3.09), but this actvity has
generaly been underfunded. Although efforts have been made to establish WUAs to manage
completed works, long term technical support to achieve potendal benefits needs to be substantially
strengthened. In addition, more formal arrangements are needed to sustain the tubewell systems in
the long-term, in particular for the replacement of pumping equipment. Moreover, activities related to
agricultural development generally have been less than satisfactory and performance could be
increased if the initatives of the beneficiaries were supplemented by stronger agricultural support In
some groundwater irrigation areas, such as Madura and Lombok, attempts have been made to counter
this failing by MOA/PRAS through provision of large consultancy services under the DGWRD. This
proach has been project specific and is likely to have limited impact since it is under DGWRD rather
tan the repctive PRAS.
5.02 To addrss these challenges, the project's institutional objectives are to: (a) concentrate public
sector support for O&M to the first two years after facilides are commissioned; (b) encourage and
enable effective community participation; (c) support agricultural development activities necessary to
achieve potential benefits; and (d) support multipurpose use of groundwater resources. To achieve
these objectives, the project would strengthen the agencies involved and their coordination at national
and provincial levels, and also make provisions for full community participation in all phases of the
development process.
5.03  The basic organizaonal structure to achieve project objectives is already in place (Chart 1).
The main technical agencies involved (described in para 1.12) are: (a) MPW for planning, design and
construction and support for the initial O&M of irrigation works and DWS facilities undertaken by
WUAs; (b) PRIS for continuing technical support to WUAs of irrigation systems; and (c) MOA and
PRAS for agricultr suppo services. Coordination of project activities related to women would be
through the Directote of Extension in MOA at national level and through PRAS at the provincial
leveL The project would use these existing institutional arrangements with appropriate strengthening
and support to implement the various project components, as required.
5.04 The coordination activities, including planning and integration of budget poposals, would be
undertaken at national and provincial levels by BAPPENAS (the national planning agency) and the
BAPPEDA (the provincial planning bodies) respectively. The Interagency Irrigation Committees
(HICs) at provincial, district and subdistrict levels would be oriented more towards groundwater
development than in the past, and used as the local coordination mechanisn. In this respect, tie
district level committee chaired by the district officer (Bupati, or his nominee) would have the most
important role. An assurance was obtained that Government would cause BAPPENAS and the



-23 -
BAPPEDA in each project province to undertake project coordinadon at national and provincial levels
respectively, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
B. PrjetC) r&Wnzation
5.05  Irrigation and DWS Works. The main implementing agency at national level would be the
Pengembangan Air Tanah (PAT), a subdirectorate of the DOI-II directorate of DGWRD within MPW,
(see Chart 1). PAT maintains subproject (P2AT) offices in all of the project provinces. The PAT and
its P2AT offices would be responsible for planning, design and construction of tubewell irrigation
systems, setting up of the WUAs and the initial O&M of the completed works. The P2AT offices
would also be responsible for construction of the domestic water supply (DWS) and house garden
irrigation facilities, as required (para 3.10). The PRIS would be responsible for supervision and
technlical support for the OM of completed tubewell systems after the initial O&M support by P2AT
units has terminated. The consultants would provide on-the-job training for the PAT and P2AT staff
in their specialist fields of activity (para 3.17).
5.06 In a recent reorganization, the P2ATs are now placed under PRIS direcdon. The objective is
to move towards treating groundwater irrigation development as a provincial activity rather then as a
subproject of a national project. In some provinces, the PRIS has seconded from its staff the P2AT
manager and other senior technical staff (irrigation enincm). The arrangement is a first stage in the
process of decentralization of groundwater irrigation development to the provinces by fully involving
P'RIS in any provincial program. However, at present, the administrative, technical and financial
control still remains with PAT at national level. The proposed project is thus timely, since an
essential prerequisite to strengthening the provincial role is to formulate standardized criteria,
processes and procedures to be used as the basis for groundwater development throughout Indonesia.
5.07 In this espect, an important step has been taken in East Java (which includes about 30 percent
of the proposed project area) to strengthen the provincial role in groundwater irrigation development
through the Governors Decree No. 700 (August 1992) and the related PRIS Decree on Technical
Guidance for the Groundwater (Irrigation) Management. These Decrees effectively divide
responsibility for groundwater (inigation) development into project and non-project activities. P2AT
would be responsible for groundwater development from the planning stage through to completion of
the initial support of O&M (two years after commissioning of a tubewell system). PRIS would be
responsible for long term support of WUAs after P2AT completes its initial O&M support
5.08 In addition, the East Java PRIS (Chart 3) has been given responsibility for monitoring and
evaluation of groundwater resources and for providing technical advice to the Governor with respect
to groundwater regulation (pam 5.19). To effectively implement the Decrees, the PRIS would have
to set up new units, or strengthen existing units, and make sufficient budgetary provisions to take on
the mandated tasks. PRIS has recognized that these are new responsibilities which would require
additional qualified staff, facilides, equipment and institutdonal support. PRIS would draw on P2AT
experience and resources during the transition period. However, technical assistance to PRIS would
be required to help develop new capability, particularly with regards to groundwater monitoring and
evaluation. The initiatives taken in East Java could be applied in all project provinces. They would
address the unresolved issues relating to sustaining groundwater development after WUAs take over
completely from P2AT, and provide a practical arrangement for the monitoring and management of
groundwater resources. G0I intends to use the East Java Governores Decree and the related PRIS
technical decree be used as models for similar decrees in the other project provinces. The project
would thus provide support for the East Java PRIS to enable it to undertake its newly mandated tasks
(para 3.16). A related project objective would be to test and demonstrate this new organizational
arrangement and enable any lessons learned to be utilized in the other project provinces.
5.09  Agulu=   Devetopmnt. The MOA, through the Directorate of Land Rehabilitation and
Development (DLRD), would be responsible at national level for the agricultural development
acdvities (Chart 2). The PRAS would be responsible for such activities at the provincial level, and
would be represented on the IIC at the provincial, district and subdistrict levels concemed with
proposed project areas. The main project acdvides would be to assist in: (a) setting up of WUAs;



- 24 -
(b) helping beneficiaries make the transition from rainfed to irrigated agriculture; (c) developing
market opportunities for specialized crops; and (d) setting up micro-enterprises to develop secondary
agricultural benefits such as house-gardens. These extension tasks would be primarily implemented
by the extension services which are organized through a tiered hierarchy extending from the center to
provincial, subprovincial, district and subdistrict levels. Existing extension arrangements would be
strengthened with special village level extension staff, who would serve only groundwater
development areas. The field staff would be supported by the existing specialist services within the
PRAS in each province. The consultants to MOA would provide general assistance, on-the-job
training and special courses, as required, for the MOA and PRAS staff in their specialist fields of
activity (para 3.17). An assurance was obtained that Government would cause MOA to provide
staffng, facilities, services and the other resources required to carry out agricultural extension and
support satisfactory to the Bank throughout aL the proposed project impact areas
5.10  Commnunity lPaticipation. To achieve the project objectives, a basic requirement would be full
and effective community participation in all phases of the development process (Annex 4). An
essential activity is to set up, train and technically support WUAs such that they are able to effectively
manage and sustaln the tubewell systems. The legal provisions (para 1.17), structure, responsibilities
and management arrangements of WUAs are detailed in Annex 11. Government groundwater
facilities are handed over to established WUAs for management immediately after completion of
construction, though legal ownership remains with Government. Although existing tubewell systems
are under WUA management, the performance of these associations has been mixed. Efforts would
be made under the project to strengthen new and existing WUAs including: (a) more attention to their
establishment, (b) provision of clearly defined initial O&M support from government for two years;
and (c) carefully supervision and monitoring of WUA performance.
5.11 The WUAs would be used as the nucleus body for other activities that can be organized to
achieve full socio-economic benefits (i.e., farmer groups for cooperative implementation of
agricultural development and activities related to the role of women). Community level activities
would be coordinated at the subdistrict level, with representation from existing community based
organizations and the agencies involved in the project. Consultant services, resource groups and
universities would be utilized, when appropriate, to assist in the implementation of community
development activities related to the project.
C. Proect Implementation
5.12 General. Improvements in the project management which would be given special attention
under the project include: (a) quality of planning and design of the development process; (b) facility
completion and the handover to WUAs; (c) the management and sustainability of facilities by WUAs;
(d) groundwater resource management and regulation; (e) project monitoring and evaluation; and (f)
annual implementation reviews and project reporting.
5.13  Scheme eparon Analyses and Documentation. Major technical objectives of the project
are to: (a) provide the lowest cost type of groundwater irrigation facility that is technically appropriate
to the hydrogeological conditions in any area; and (b) construct facilities that are suitable for handover
for management by the beneficiaries through properly established WUAs. In this respect, areas
suitable for development by privately financed SIW facilities would be screened out of the program,
thus avoiding untoward Government expenditures. These objectives would be achieved under the
project by initial screening of all proposed development areas to decide the most appropriate type of
facility before detailed design is undertaken, and by following procedures based on standardization of
designs, including materials and equipment used (Annex 5). The technical decision on the type of
groundwater irrigation facility most appropriate for any subproject area would be made by the
specialist staff of the concerned P2AT office with technical advice from the provincial consultancy
support team
5.14  Arrangements for Multipurpose Use of Groundwater. A feature of the project would be to
provide formal anrangements for multipurpose use of the groundwater facilities developed primarily
for irrigation. The main other uses would be domestic water supply (DWS) and irrigation service for



-25 -
house gardens. Such developments would be possible wherever the location of the well makes this
viable and when multipurpose developments are requested by the community to be served. The
development process would be to: (a) evaluate the potential demand for multipurpose use when siting
a well; and (b) if viable, incorporate multipurpose use into the detailed planning and design of an
irrigation facility. If a DWS facility is required, the planning and design criteria (including water
quality standards) and procedures would be compatible with standards set under the proposed Water
Supply and Sanitation Project for Low Income Families (WSSPLIC). The standards and designs for
DWS facilities would also be agreed with Cipta Karya within MPW at the center and with the
provincial authority responsible for provision of rural water supplies.
5.15  ProJect Development Process. The project consists of a large number of discrete tubewell
systems each with similar technical characteristics and management requirements. To date, technical
support and direction from PAT at national level has been less than satisfactory, primarily because
development has been tackled on an individual project basis with no uniform arrangements to
standardize the development process. To address this issue, the development process for tubewell
systems would be formalized and the staffing at field level would be strengthening to ensure that the
process can be effectively implemented (Annex 4). The four stages of the development process
would be: (a) pr -rnaration to decide where each tubewell (subproject) program would be sited
after satisfying technical groundwater and agricultural determinants and taking into account general
provincial and local development priorities; (b) pm  iQn including the detailed planning and design
of tubewell clusters and individual tubewell systems; (c) impementadon when the tubewell systems
are constructed; and (d) O&M (post construction) from commissioning of tubewells to deliver an
irrigation service.
5.16 Important steps in the implementation stage would be: (a) production testing after completion
of the well to confm that the water supply is adequate and to select the suitable pump units; and (b)
pressure testing of buried pipe conveyance systems for leaks before back filling of trenches. An
essential requirement of the concerned P2AT would be to formally test the facilities and to certify that
they are fully operational before they are handed over to their WUAs. Thus, an important part of the
commissioning process, DGWRD/PRIS would verify and certify that all groundwater development
schemes are complete and can function as designed before handing over to the WUAs for initial O&M
(para 3.09). This certification process would substantially reduce the risks during the initial O&M
support period, since it would technically confilrm that tubewell facilities are efficient and effective
before such facilities are handed over to the WUAs.
5.17  Establishment and Suport of WUAs. Under the development process, a critical step would
be to identify the command areas that individual facilities co"'1d serve and thus identify the potential
beneficiary groups. Only after wells have been successfully .ested and actual tubewell command
areas is decided, can the formal establishment of WUAs for the facility be undertaken (Annex 11).
Once beneficiaries are selected, the WUA would be formally set up with the assistance of staff from
the WUA support unit of P2AT. This would include establishment of the constitution, election of
WUA officers and definition of operational bylaws. The establishment of a WUA would include full
beneficiary participation so that potential beneficiaries understand the responsibilities and benefits
from their mutual decision. Thus, the sequence of activities relating to establishment of WUAs would
be, in effect, a training activity to be undertaken by the WUA support unit within each P2AT.
5.18 Training. Elected officers of WUAs would need training in groundwater irrigation facility
management, including routine technical supervision, bookkeeping, and other record keeping relating
to the O&M of the facilities. Specialized training would be required for tubewell operators in general
operation of the pumping equipment, routine maintenance and executing simple repairs, and also in
operational record keeping. All beneficiaries on a facility would have to understand the principles of
rotational water supply if the service is to be shared equitably and delivered in a timely manner.
Training would also be required to initiate newly recruited subprofessional WUA field staff in the
techniques of their craft. Seminars would be conducted at regular intervals (with the IIC) at
provincial, district and subdistrict levels to keep members updated on development strategies and
experiences under the project. This training for WUA officials and on-the-job training of project staff
would be provided with the assistance of the project consultants.



-26-
5.19  Manaymet of Groundwatnr Resources, Idonesia's groundwater resource management and
regulation requirements, aimed at safe exploitation of the resources and avoidance of their polludon,
are described in Annex 7. The Government Regulation No. 22 on Water Management, (1982) gives
provinces the implicit right to allocate groundwater within their Jurisdiction through the requirement
that all groundwater use, except for domestic purposes, shall be licensed by the provincial authorities.
Under the law, technical oversight and approval of groundwater development is vested with the
Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) which has delegated this power to its Directorate of
Environmental Geology (DEG). However, DEG is not staffed or provided with budget to carry out
this mandate. It must rely on information provided by the provinces for its technical evaluadons, but
the provinces also lack technical expertise in groundwater evaluation.
5.20 At present, the most serious problems relating to management of groundwater resources, in
terms of both water quality and quantity, are in the urban areas, notably in Jakarta and some cities in
West Java. However, the rate of development of groundwater for irrigation, particularly in East Java,
gives cause for concern because it is not being regulated on the basis of technical information. These
aspects of groundwater management have not been treated adequately by the PATIP2AT organizations
which were established mainly to construct projects. The necessary data base can be provided only
by establishing groundwater monitoring networks together with data evaluation units so that any
adverse effects of development can be identified (and responded to) in a timely manner.
5.21 Provincial licensing is almost entirely directed at industrial and conmmercial uses which attract
a user fee based on metered abstractions. These activities are located mainly in urban centers and
there is strong evidence that licensing provisions are being circumvented by many of these users.
Block licenses are provided by the provinces for public financed groundwater development for
irrigation and an abstracdon charge is not levied. Essentially all private groundwater development for
irrgation (located almost endrely on Java) is unlicensed. This will be extremely difficult to control
since the only fixed asset is a hand drilled (or dug) hole in the ground which can be installed at very
low cost. Pumps are mobile and are moved between wells, often under rental arrpngements.
5.22 The problems of regulation of abstraction and pollution control are now mainly in the cities,
paricularly in Jakarta where overdraft and/or pollution of aquifers is a major concern. Involvement in
this aspect of regulation is beyond the scope of the proposed project. There is as yet no evidence for
over-development of groundwater due to irrigation use. Neither are adverse effects on water levels in
village water supply wells due to groundwater irrigation pumping commonly reported. Nevertheless,
overdraft could occur in some areas in the future if groundwater development for irrigation is not
properly regulated. Thus, as a first step, the project would make provision to monitor groundwater
resources in subproject areas to ensure that existing hand pumps and open wells are not adversely
affected by project tubewells and overdevelopment is avoided.
5.23  Monitoring and Evaluti-on. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the development impact
generally has been poor on previous groundwater irrigation development projects. Exceptions are the
Bank/Italian cofinanced development on Lombok under ISSP and the ODA/EEC financed projects on
Madura, both of which were afforded very large consultancy inputs. Most monitoring has
concentrated on physical and financial progress of project implementation. However, reliable
information on irrigation and agricultural performances of facilities must also be collected to
effectively evaluate the developmental impact. Procedures for keeping records by WUAs (para 5.18),
if properly implemented, would provide useful facility utilization data, but collection of adequate and
reliable data on cropped areas, inputs and crop yields has always been beyond the capability of
WUAs. This information must therefore be collected by the PRAS through seasonal prog. -  is on a
sample basis. The survey programs would be devised with the assistance of the project consultants
(para 3.17) who would also assist with the collation, evaluation and reporting on the data collected.
An understanding was reached with Govemment that it would cause all project agencies to monitor
and evaluate prject activites and perfonmance according to standards satsfactory to the Banlc
5.24  Piogrogs Review and  oring. Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared for each
project province, collated at national level by DGWRJ and MOA, and subnmtted to the Bank for



- 27 -
review and commrient. Each report would contain a brief description of the main events during the
reporting period including: (a) construction progress; (b) expenditures incurred; (c) project staffing
status; (d) tender and award of contracts; (e) functional irrigation area developed; (f) agricultural
performance, as applicable, and (g) other items of note. Thus, the reports would summarize key
performance indicators for all aspects of the development process. In addition, a Project Coompletion
Report (in standard Bank format) would be submitted by Government to the Bank no later than six
months after project completion.
5.23 Annual Implementation Review. An assurance was obtained that Government would
undertake an annual implementation review of the project not later than June 30 each year,
commencing June 30 1994, so that the findings can be reflected in the provincial work programs for
the following fiscal year. The annual review arrangement would give flexibility to, inter alia: (a)
amend individual provincial programs to reflect performance during the previous year, (b) evaluate
'expansion' schemes which can be promoted to 'go-ahead' schemes, based on performance data from
pilot development areas; (c) consider any new scheme areas not ncluded in the original program; and
(d) incorporate any lessons learned in the course of the previous year. The proposed work program
through FY 93/94 was reviewed and would be agreed at negotiations. The first annual review would
take place in 1993 to define the FY 94/95 work program. The project consultants (para 3.17) would
assist in the preparation and collation of information for the review, and the responsible provincial
agencies would ensure that necessary performance data are made available.
5.26 Budget Procedures. Present procedures for funding groundwater irrigation development,
including agricultural support services, need to be strengthened. Uncertainties in budget allocations
and delays in release of budgets make planning and implementation of work programs difficult,
particularly activites pertaining to tendering and awarding works contracts. Procurement of materials
and equipment, of prime importance in groundwater development programs, can also be delayed by
untimely release of budget allocations. Government budgetary procedures cannot be changed for a
specific Bank-financed project. However, the project would review and agree on annual work
programs and budget proposals well in advance of the fiscal year. This would allow BAPPENAS
and BAPPEDA to plan appropriate project funding to be r,leased in a timely manner.
VI. PRODUCrION. MARKEIG. FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
Agricultural Production and Markleting
6.01 The project consists of groups of individual groundwater irrigation facilities scattered in a
number of scheme areas in each of the eleven provinces targeted for development. They therefore
present a wide range of climatic and soil conditions, cropping patterns and farmer capability. The
common feature is the present lack of irrigation in the areas to be developed with crop production
being entirely rainfed under the 'without' project situation 1/ Other features are the small land
holdings (particularly on Java) and the related financial risks that small farmers must take in the
transition from rainfed to irrigated agriculture. These will include raising funds for crop production
inputs and the O&M costs for the irrigation service. Successfully making this transition is the basic
challenge of the poverty alleviation objective of the project.
6.02 Cropping Intensities. Present cropping intensities are generally in the range of 140-180
percent. Exceptions are some very low rainfall areas on Lombok and in Central Sulawesi with
present cropping intensities of about 70 percent. Dry season cropping occurs mainly during the first
diy season using residual moisture and some rain. Where rainfall and soil conditions are suitable, the
wet season crop of choice is paddy. In some areas with low rainfall and light soils, wet season
cropping consists of palawija crops, typically maize, groundnut, mungbean and soybean, sometimes
with less then 100 percent of the area cultivated. The first dry season crop under present conditions is
1/ Excepuiomn a    mareas wifin proposed schemes which produce vegetables with hand irgation fomn dug weUls, for
example in the Sape and Keli subproject areas on Sumbawa Island. In addition, some schemes may be located in the
tai ends of surface water irrigation systems where water supplies are available. but very insecure.



-28 -
aiainly palawija, except in some parts of Java and Sumatra where rainfall is sufficient to attempt a
second rice crop. Provision of reliable groundwater irrigation would have the following effects: (a)
increase in cropping intensity during the first dry season; (b) a shift to paddy cultivation in the wet
season L some areas where paddy is not now practiced; (c) possible introduction or expansion of
paddy cultivation during the first dry season; (d) extension of cropping into the second dry season;
and (e) higher crop yields due to reliable irrigation supplies, together with increased use of other
production inputs. Reliable irrigation would also encourage farmers to cultivate higher value crops,
including vegetables for home consumption and sale whenever markets are available. Estimates of
the potential project impact on agricultural production have been derived from field observations in
proposed new areas for groundwater development and by surveys of existing groundwater schemes.
6.03 The impact of the project on crop production is estimated by province in Annex 2, Table 2.
Under the future 'without' project scenario, little or no change in cropping is foreseen. In the 'future
with' project situation, cropping intensities are expected to increase up to about 280 percent in most
areas. There would be 100 percent cover of paddy in the wet season with irrigation used to
supplement rainfall. Where feasible, most farmers would prefer to grow a second paddy crop on at
least part of their land during the first dry season. It is anticipated that the paddy cropping would be
almost entirely of improved varieties. Some farmers are expected to introduce or expand the
cultivation of high value crops during both dry seasons, (e.g., shallots, chillies, watermelons,
tobacco, etc.). The crop choice would be decided by marketing opportunities. Other farmers would
use the dry season irrigation supplies to grow more of the traditional palawija crops (maize,
groundnut, mungiean, and soybean). The estimated total crop areas 'with' and 'without' the project
are summarized below:
-dW Aa (h)
cm4O              NIWithout' ProJect              With' bPjec
Paddy - wet sason          19,995                        22,970
Paddy-dryscumon              916                          9,906
Palawijac ps               17,304                        29,074
High Value Crops             200                           .630
Totd               38,415                        68,580
Cropping Intensity          155%                          278%
6.04 Water Requirements. The irrigation requirements of the assumed 'future with' project
cropping patterns for each of the subproject areas have been derived by extrapolation from existing
studies and projects, using appropriate records for estimating effective rainfall and other climatic
determinants and taking account of local soil conditions (Annex 8). For estimating peak irrigation
demands, the 80 percent probable rainfall has been used with appropriate adjustment to effective
rainfall. Average pumping requirements to serve the assumed cropping patterns have been estimated
on the basis of the 50 percent probable rainfall. They indicate that project cropping patterns can be
served under the water duties adopted for the design of the irrigation supplies with the assumed
maximum daily pumping hours and system irrigation efficiencies. However, there are clear
indications from already completed and well established schemes, that actual pumping hours are
considerably lower than the calculated requirements with apparendy no significant loss of crop
production. In addition, project tubewells are only assumed to run for about 18 hours per day at
maximum demand periods, whereas pump units can safely be operated for up to 22 hours per day for
short periods. It may therefore be feasible to decrease the irrigation design duty and/or increase
maximum running hours per day. Both these changes in design assumptions would effectively
increase the command area which could be served by a typical tubewell syste . The implications of
these potential design changes are discussed in the sensitivity analyses (para 7.11 and Annex 2).
Thus, one important objective of project monitoring and evaluation would be to confirm whether the
project planning and design assunptions are too conservative with respect to design water duties.
6.05  C    Yields. Use of improved varieties of rice and of chemical fertilizers are well established
throughout Indonesia. Fann surveys indicate that improved technologies for rice production have



- 29 -
been adopted in mo¢e than 90 percent of the irigated area. This pattern can be expected to be repeated
for rice production when groundwater irrigation is available. Present average yields of wet season
rice under rainfed conditions range from 2.5 to 3.5 tons/ha (dry, unhusked paddy) between
subproject areas and provinces, reflecting variations in wet season rainfall conditions. Full
development paddy yields under the project are expected to increase to 4.5 to 5.0 tons/ha, depending
on the locality. Palawija field crop yields now range from 1.5 to 1.8 tons/ha for maize, about 0.8
tons/ha for soybean and some 0.7 tons/ha for groundnuts, wlhen cultivated in the dry season without
irigation. Ful project development yields are expected to average about 3.0 tons/ha for maize, 1.3
tons/ha for soybean and 1.2 tons/ha for groundnuts. High value crops and their expected 'with'
project yields include: 7 tons/ha for shallots, 4.5 tons/ha for chili and some 0.9 tons/ha for tobacco
(dry leaves).
6.06 Maketing. Annual incremental production under the project at full development is estimated
at about 83,000 tons of paddy, 33,000 tons of palawiya crops (maize, soybeans, groundnuts) and a
substantial volume of high value crops. This is not expected to cause marketing problems. A
significant proportion of the increased rice production would be consumed by the producers or in the
immediate vicinity of production area, thus improving dietary and nutritional standards. In addition,
about 10 percent of all marketed rice in Indonesia is acquired by Government, creating a dependable
marketing opportunity. Any marketable surplus is expected to be sold by the producers as paddy to
private traders or millers. Numerous private traders operate in the viUages, while village cooperative-
owned rice mills provide competition and offer services such as drying and husking.
6.08 Marketing of bulk palawija crops such as maize, soybean and groundnuts is handled almost
entirely by private traders and weil established marketing channels exist. Shallot and chilli (which can
be dried for storage) are not particularly perishable vegetable crops and can be transported over long
distances. Significant amounts of these crops usually can be marketed locally from roadside stalls
and in village markets by the producers, or through middle men into markets in nearby towns.
Experience indicates that, if significant marketable surpluses of shallot and chilli are produced, larger
scale middle men are atuacted and are willing to transport the produce in quantity over long distances
(even inter-island, as evidenced by the shallot and chili markets developed on Sumbawa). Perishable
vegetables, such as tomatoes,would be marketed through outlets in towns and villages in close
vicinity to the production area. The project would support the development of marketing of high
value crops under the community participation and agriculturl development components, with special
attention to the role of women. One advantage of groundwater irrigation development is that the
facilities provide a flexible 'on demand' water source. Thus, if opportunites change because of crop
prices, or other factors, farmers under the project would be able to respond quickly to the varying
market pressures.
6.09  F1ncialr Ed. Rice prices in Indonesia are largely determined by local supply and demand.
Although there are price fluctuations between locations, seasons and years, prices in the open market
are generally higher than Government's floor prices. The major instruments influencing rice
production in the past have been irrigation investments by the public sector, subsidies on production
chemicals, and price policy through trade regulations. However, fertilizer subsidies are now being
phased out and pesticide subsidies have been eliminated. Prices for palawija field crops (maize,
soybean and groundnuts) also are largely determined by local markets and are not subject to
Government intervention. Vegetable crops are subject to large price fluctuations on a seasonal and
annual basis, reflecting conditions ranging trom scarcity to glut in the local markets. Financial prices
for all commodities used in the project analysis have taken these variables into account and are based
on farm surveys conducted in the proposed development areas during project preparation and on
information provided by MOA and the M&E unit within DGWRD. Prices have been adjusted, as
necessary, to reflect farmgate prices observed during appraisal. Financial prices assumed for the
most importnt farm-related commodities are given in Annex 2, Table 1.
6.10 Farrn Budgeta. Assessment of project impact on farm incomes was made in a sample of
twenty situaions to reflect a range of proposed development areas to test 'without' and 'with' project



-30-
conditions. The determinants taken into consideration include: (a) agricultural production costs and
incomes; (b) costs related to the type of irrigation facility; and (c) pumping requirements to support
the assumed 'with' project cropping patterns. Farm budgets for typical holdings of 0.5 ha were
prepared for each of the subproject areas on the basis of assumed average cropping patterns and crop
yields. The incremental farm income tested is that at full development, which on average, can be
reached in about four years after commissioning a facility. Estimates of farm income are calculated
after allowing for the value of the farmers' own labor, thus indicating incremental incomes after the
farmers have been rewarded for their additional efforts. The results of the analyses, detailed in Annex
2, Table 4, indicate that net incomes from 0.5 ha farms are projected to rise from about Rp 40,000 to
Rp 300,000 in the 'without' project situation to about Rp 370,000 to Rp 700,000 at full development.
In all cases tested, farmers should have the cash flow to make the transition from rainfed to irrigated
agriculture.
6.11  The above estimates refer only to the farm activities in areas served by new irrigation facilities.
However, most farm families are involved in other economic activides because of the small average
farm sizes. Such 'off-farm' activities can include: (a) cultivating land outside the command area of
the tubewell; (b) working as laborers on other farmer's land; and (c) by engaging in non-agrcultual
employment. A benchmark survey conducted in 1988-90 in Lombok revealed that about 80 percent
of the farm families earned income from activities outside the command area and that the 'pre-project'
income from land under command of the wells was only about 12 percent of total family income. It
also showed that some 25 percent of the command area was farmed by tenant farmers.
6.12 A village study in Java showed that about 75 percent of the households meet some or all of
their subsistence needs from non-farming activities. Of about 480 households, 6 percent owned more
than half the rice cropped area, 40 percent had holdings too small to produce their basic rice
requirements, and 37 percent had no land under paddy cultivation. This study showed that some 20
percent of household income and some 40 percent of calorific requirements came from house garden
land (pekarangan). Thus, the project makes specific provision to reach the less advantaged
households in or near the tubewell command areas through support of house garden irrigation. The
financial impact of these initiatives cannot be calculated at present, but they are expected to be
substantial for pooar househo'ds and, in particular, the landless.
O&A FuanLand CostRecg
6.13   -&,M Funding. At present, Government is faced with funding of O&M on some 4.4 M ha of
surface water irrigated lands and about 0.6 M ha of reclaimed swamp lands. The policy is to
gradually reduce this burden by turning over of all surface water schemes of less than 500 ha for
management by WUAs, and having WUAs on large schemes take responsibility for O&M of tertiary
canal systems. The policy for the last decade has been to hand over Government financed tubewell
facilides to their WUAs for management as they are completed, albeit with government support for
O&M for the first two years of fuel supply and tubewell operators' salary. These condidtions would
continue with regard to all groundwater irrigation facilities developed under the project. Thus, the
WUAs woud finance the full O&M costs of facilities from the third year after conumissioning
6.14  Cost Reey. Government would finance all initial capital costs of any facility apart from
land acquired, which would be procured by a levy on the beneficiaries and become a common
property of the WUA. The project specifically targets hard core poverty areas and thus in order to
enhance the financial viability of the new facilites, capital costs would not be recovered from the
be->~ -aries. In addition, Government's initial support to O&M would be regarded as a subsidy
(j,a 6.13) which would not be recovered from the beneficiaries 1/. This initial O&M support would
substantially reduce the risks associated with the transition from rainfed to irrigated agriculture by
providing a full and guaranteed irrigation service. However, during this initial two year period,
I/ Govemment policy of phasing out of Bank Indonesia's liquidity credit to rural institutions has raised the cost of
boffowing to 25-30 percent per annum and essentially eliminated the possibility of using medium term credit as a
means for beneficiary contnbution to capital costs of facilities (see para 2.23).



-31-
farmers would be expected to pay their WUA for water, generally after crop harvest, with accrued
income placed in a reserve fund for any long term major repair costs. The WUAs would be
encouraged to use these savings for short term as an agricultural credit source for the group
beneficiaries.
6.15 WUAs would be paying all O&M vosts from the third year after a facility is commissioned.
These costs would be recovered from the WUA members in the form of a water charge relating to the
irrigation service rendered. The WUA generally charge farmers by the hour (equivalent to a
volumetric basis) since the well discharge is constant and each farmer taking the full well supply in
turn. The water charges set by WUAs at a level sufficient to cover routine O&M expenditures,
including any repairs to facilities, plus some savings so that funds are accumulated in WUA accounts
for the eventual replacement of at least the pumping equipment. With respect to replacement
requirements, the life span of wells are expected to average at least 15 years, pumps should not need
replacing for at least 10 years, and pump houses and distbution systems can be maintained in
perpetuity. An assurance was obtained that Government would cause WUAs to bear full cost of
O&M in project financed groundwater schemes from the third year after a facility is comnissioned.
6.16 Other users of tubewell water (domestic water supply and house garden irnigation) would pay
at rates set by WUAs to reflect incremental O&M costs of the service provided. In addition, there
would be indirect cost recovery through increase in land tax (PBB) once the land status changed from
rainfed to irrigated.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFCATION AND RISKS
PDjec ZBenfit and Bnfcae
7.01  This project complements previous Bank support to irrigation development on Java and the
Outer Islands. The development of about 25,000 ha would be almost entirely for new irrigation,
generally located in areas where poverty is prevalent. The screening process into fimn 'go-ahead'
schemes (about 62 percent of planned area) and 'expansion' schemes (38 percent of planned area),
together with the annual implemer. ation review, would initmize risks of failure.
7.02 The project consists of many small irigation facilities which have short construction periods,
generally less than one year from start of construction to commissioning. Thus, the generation of
benefits is relatively rapid as compared to surface irrigation schemes. In addition, groundwater
irrigation facilities can offer an essentially 'on demand' iigation service which gives considerably
flexibility to change cropping patterns as necessary. This will enable farmers to quickly response to
changes in crop prices or market opportunities.
7.03 Primary benefits of the project would be increased production of rice, palawija field crops
(maize, soybean, mungbean, groundnut and tobacco) and vegetables of various kinds. The main
beneficiares would be farmers with land within the command areas of the irrigation facilities.
However, the rural community in the immediate vicinity of any facility would have the potential
benefit of potable domestic water supply and irrigation for house gardens.
7.04 Major benefits at full development would be would be annual incremental production of about
83,000 tons of paddy, about 16,000 tons of maize, about 9,000 tons of soybean, about 8,000 tons of
groundnut, and an important increase in production of various vegetable crops (including onion,
chilli tomato, longbean, eggplant) and tobacco. About 50,000 farm families (some 300,000
persons) would benefit directly from the new areas brought under irrigation. The equivalent of about
20,000 full-time farm jobs are also expected to be created, mainly as a result of cropping
intensificaton. Since the project schemes would be spread through eleven provinces (of which nine
are in the Outer Islands), the development should generate significant indirect benefits, particularly in
the more isolated areas. The project would alleviate poverty by generating additional labor demand,
mainly benefiting the landless, and by increasing agricultural incomes of small farners who are now
dependent on rainfed production.



- 32 -
Economic Justification
7.05 Economic evaluations have been carried out using internal economic rate of return (ERR)
calculations and net present value (NPV) estimations. The assumptions and calculations used in the
economic evaluations are summarized in Annex 2. The ERR calculations have been made for all
subproject areas and types of groundwater irrigation facilities proposed under the project, on the
assumption that all groundwater potential in the 'expansion' areas would eventually be developed, or
an equivalent area developed elsewhere under the project.
7.06 Cost streams include all capital and operating costs. They include physical contingencies, but
exclude price contingencies and transfer payments such as taxes and subsidies. They are based on
detailed cost estimates which are summarized in Annex 3. The costs of consultancy services have
been attributed to the different subproject areas pro rata to the development areas. An allowance has
been made in the physical contingencies to account for unsuccessful wells. Well construction costs
also include an allowance for depreciation and rehabilitation of well drilling and testing equipment and
assumes that wells would generally be constructed using P2AT equipment under contract
arrangements. Administrative overheads are estimated at a flat rate of 5 percent of all investment
costs. The costs of institutional support activities (M&E, formation of WUAs, etc.) and agricultural
support services have been defined and included pro rata to developed area in each subproject.
7.07 Agricultural benefits have been evaluated for all subproject areas, taking account of local
physical determinants (rainfall, soils, etc.) in the subproject areas. Benefits are expressed in terms of
the value of incremental crop production. A buildup to full benefits over four years is assumed in all
schemes. Benefit steams do not take into account benefits from house garden irrigation, or social
benefits from domestic water supply facilities. Additional benefits from improved coordination of
irrigated agricultural development, technical assistance and other institutional support activities cannot
be quantfied directly to individual schemes, but would contribute to the project impact. In particular,
-echnical assistance and institutional strengthening activities are expected to generate incremental
benefits from existing groundwater development in the vicinity of the project facilities.
7.08 The ERR for the overall project is estimated at about 14.5 percent, though this indicator has
relatively limited significance as all schemes have their own particular characteristics of costs and
benefits. The ERRs range from 11.4 percent (DTW facilities in Madura, East Java) to 17.1 percent
(lTTW facilities in Besuki, East Tava). As can be expected, IlTW facilities generally have higher
ERRs (with a range of 12.0 per.... ; to 17.7 percent) than DTW facilities (with a range of 11.4 percent
to 13.8 percent). However, a p...,ning criteria is that DTW would only be proposed in areas where
ITTWs are not technically viable. Annex 2, Table 5 gives the base ERRs for all subproject areas,
together with present net value (NPV). This table also shows that the investment costs vanes from
some Rp 4.0 million per ha to Rp 6.4 million per ha and that net annual benefits range from about Rp
0.9 million per ha to Rp 1.2 million per ha.
7.09 Sensitivitv Ar-ses. Analyses were carried out for all schemes to test the sensitivity of their
ERRs to variations in investment costs and direct benefits as described in Annex 2. The tests reflects
the variations in costs and benefits which can be expected from groundwater irrigation development
with a large number of separate tubewell systems spread over areas with different physical and social
determinants. Cost changes of +10 percent and +20 percent were tested, as were the impacts of
benefit reductions of the same magnitude (Annex 2, Table 6). Reduction in expected benefits (-10
percent and -20 percent) reflects what could occur due to changes in cropping patterns, or cropping
intensities as farmers respond to crop pricing and marketing opportunities. In addition, a delay of one
year in achieving benefits has been tested to reflect: (a) possible delays in the farmers making the
transition from rainfed to irrigated agriculture; and (b) the specific targeting of poor farmers who may
be more risk averse than assumed. The test results emphasize the attention needed during the post-
construction phase of the development. Sensitivity to delays in implementation were not tested
because each facility is an operational entity and there is litdle nisk that delays in the total construction
period would exceed one year.



- 33 -
7.10  'fhe premise that project costs and benefits streams are based on conservative planning and
design assumptions was also tested. For example, an analysis tests that pumping hours may be based
on conservative estimates of the irrigation requirements (para 6.04) and that fanners may tend to more
efficiently irrigate when they must pay for water. This test shows that if pump running hours are
decreased by some 20 percent (and benefits remain the same), the ERR increases by about one
percentage point. Another analysis tests project design assumptions which may be conservative,
namely that: (a) maximum pump running hours are assumed at only 18 hours per day; and (b) that
average well discharges could be higher than assumed if wells were designed more efficiently. Both
these design changes, if adopted, would have the effect of decreasing the capital costs per unit area of
a project facility and/or reducing the running hours per annum for typical wells (thus reducing O&M
costs). For example, with respect to item (a) above, if running hours are increased to a maximum of
22 hours a day for short periods, the command area served (and thus benefits) could be increased by
about 20 percent. This would increase the estimated ERRs for all tubewell systems by up to some
four percentage points. With respect to item (b) above, there is evidence that, on average, discharges
are not fully optimized when the well point is constructed and tubewell command areas are not
designed to reflect actual well point discharge (after the well is developed and tested and before the
buried pipe distribution system is constructed). No data exists to quantify the effect of these
optimizations of tubewell design, but both changes would improve the average ERRs of subproject
schemes.
7.11 The above tests have shown that ERRs are fairly stable against the tested levels of cost
increases, while ERRs are more sensitive to the tested range of benefit reductions. Test results also
indicate that estimated ERRs may fall below 10 percent in a few isolated subproject areas if benefits
are reduced by 20 percent, or cost is increased by 20 percent. These low values relate in most cases
to the unlikely event that the capital costs per unit area of DTW facilities would be higher than
anticipated. However, the risks of these events are small since project is phased into 'go-ahead' and
'expansion' programs which ensure that acceptable performance on existing tubewell systems be
obtained before marginal impact areas are developed. In addition, the analysis indicates that the
project ERRs can be substantially improved if more attention is given to the optimizing the planning
and design of groundwater development. For example, if through improvements in design, the
command area served (and thus benefits) were increased by 30 percent, the ERRs would increase by
some eight percentage points. To test these opportunities, a priority task of the project consultants
would be to advise DGWRD on technical viability of possible changes in design assumptions.
Appropriate improvements in design can be expected as the project proceeds.
Risks and Uncertainties
7.12 The main project risks are generally known from groundwater components under previous
projects. They relate to selection of viable subproject areas, quality control of all stages of the
development process, and delayed or incomplete agriculturl support The project has been conceived
and designed to address and minimize specific risks as described below.
7.13 The institutional risks include inability to keep the organizational arrangements envisaged in
place and inadequate staffing of agencies at provincial level, particularly in the Outer Islands.
Previously there has been over-reliance on technical assistance, unpredictable and inadequate funding,
and ineffective coordination of government support agencies, particularly for the post-construction
activides related to irrigated agricultural development. Specific actions proposed to address these
risks include: (a) an extended project period; (b) a phased and flexible work programs subject to
annual reviews (c) improved institutional coordination; (d) focused technical assistance, institutional
support and training; (e) strengthening of monitoring and evaluation; and (f) improvements to
implementation and procurement procedures. With respect to item (b), the proje_t solution would be
to contain the risks by control of funding through disbursement conditionalities.
7.14 The technical risks are relatively small since technologies used have been tested and proven.
Although proposed technologies are generally accepted, they have not been applied systematically. In
those provinces where groundwater development is still limited, risks would be contained by the
flexiplan approach of categorizing the project area to reflect the extent of the hydrogeological



- 34-
unknowns, as described in para 3.04. This planning approach would reduce the risk of undisbursed
loan amounts since work programs can be transferred between provinces if expansion areas have to
be deleted. The proect would also contain technical risks by: (a) careful screening of the planned
irrigation facilites; (b) standardizadon of desig criteria and implementation procedures, (c) specific
attention to quality control and monitoring and evaluation of the technical performance of completed
works; and (d) fuHl community participation throughout the development process. An allowance for
failed wells in the cost estimates covers the risk of individual well fai: rc at construction.
7.15  Project economic viability mainly depends on containing costs and achieving potental benefits
in a timely manner. Thus, the socio-econmic risks would reflect that, in some areas on the Outer
Islands, the project technology has not yet been tested and demonstrated as acceptable to the fanning
population. In addition, some WUAs may not take up tubewell management as planned, and
individual farmers may not fully utilize the irrigation service provided. To contain these risks, the
project would: (a) support full community participation at all stages of the development process; (b)
monitor performance of newly developed areas to confirm farmers commitment and response before
expanding programs; (c) provide detailed assistance with establishment of WUAs followed by
support and guidance, particularly during the initial O&M period; and (d) provide agricultural services
with specific support for the transitional stage from rainfed to irigated agriculture. The project also
supports activities to generate social and secondary benefits (domestic water supply and house
gardens, etc.) which should encourage strong community commitment and promote self help.
7.16 The enironmental risks associated with the project are small. The schemes would all be
located on land already developed for agriculture and, therefore, no land clearance would be involved.
Unlike much surface water irrigadon development, there is no risk with groundwater irrigation
development of inducing water logging and associated secondary soil salinization. In fact,
groundwater developments should improve overall drainage conditions in their impact areas. The
project would support groundwater resource monitoring and evaluation and strengthen institutions
inVolved in groundwater regulation and licensing. Screening and planning criteria would ensure
sitng of irrigation we}ls would avoid negative effects on existing village water supplies areas, where
the groundwater balances are in jeopardy, or where salt water intrusion could be induced. In this
respect, most project schemes in the Outer Islands are located in areas where groundwater is
undeveloped apart from small abstractions for conumunity water supplies. Positive environmental
impacts would include the provision of potable water supplies to communities in the vicinities of the
groundwater irrigation facilities (by formal or informal anrangements) and general improvements to
the social well-being of populations in areas where poverty is common. The overall environmental
impact of the project would be positive.
VUL  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
8.01 Assurnces were obtained that Government would:
(a) by September 30, 1993, employ consultants services to assist with project implementation and
supervison, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.17);
(b) cause the project executing agencies to: (i) locate, screen, select and commission project
schemes in accordance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank; and (ii) implement
the project in accodance to technical, financial, administrive, agricultural and environmental
practices, standards and criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para 3.20);
(c) prior to implementation of schemes under 'expansion' areas, cause DGWRD to undertake
studies in the 'expansion' areas, satisfactory to the Bank, to confirm that: (i) existing
tubewells in the area perform to agreed performance criteria; (ii) groundwater resources are
sufficient for the proposed development; and (iii) the proposed schemes are technically and
socially viable (pam r3.20);
(d) submit to the Bank for its review and comments, for each province under the project: (i) not
later than September 30 each year, a coordinated work program and cost estimates for the



- 35 -
following fiscal year, and (ii), by December 31 each year, coordinated budget proposals for
the agreed provincial work programs (para 3.21);
(e) acquire vehicles required for the project from Government budgetary sources under a schedule
agreed with the Bank (para 4.04);
(f) cause each project executing agency at both national and provincial levels to: (i) establish and
maintain adequate and separate accounts from the beginning of project implementation; and (ii)
maintain such accounts in accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting
principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank, so as to enable these agencies to provide
annual financial statements to reflect the financial perforrnance and status of project
components (para 4.14);
(g) cause all agencies to: (i) keep all project related contract documents, documents related to the
SOEs, and orders and receipts for at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the loan account was made; (ii) maintain
the Special Account, including recods and documentation of receipts and withdrawals, as
deemed satisfactory by the B:I; (iii) complete annual consolidated financial statmments of the
project for independent audit within six months of the close of each Government fiscal year,
a  (iv) undertake independent audits of each years consolidated project accounts, including
the audits of SOEs and the Special Account, and submit such audit reports to the Bank within
nine months of the close of each Government fiscal year (para 4.14);
(h) cause BAPPENAS and the BAPPEDA in each project province to undertake project
coordination at national and provincial levels respectively, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.04);
(1) cause MOA/DGFCA to provide staffing, facilides, services and the other resources required to
carry out agricultural extension and support satisfactory to the Bank throughout all the
proposed project impact areas (para 5.09);
j) undertake an annual implementation review of the project not later than June 30 of each year,
commencing June 30, 1994, so that the findings can be reflected in the provincial work
programs for the following fiscal year (para 5.25); and
(k) cause the WUAs to bear full cost of O&M in project financed groundwater schemes from the
third year after a facility is commissioned (pam 6.15).
8.02  An understanding was reached that Government would cause all project agencies to monitor
and evaluate project activities and performance according to standards satisfactoy to the Bank
(pars 5.23).
8.03 An assurance was obtained that, as a condition of disbursement for the works and irrigation
equipment and materials components, Government would make annual budgetary allocations
sufficient to implement the agreed annual work programs in each of the project provinces for the fiscal
year 1994/95; and each subsequent fiscal year thereafter until project completion (para 4.10)
8.04 With the above assurances and understanding, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan
of US$ 54.0 million equivalent with a 20 year maturity at the Bank's standard variable rate, including
a grace period of 5 years. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



et                                                                                                                        r                           
.....,               ,     ,     ,,  ... ......                                                     .....                  ..       ..           ..                                    ...                ..       .



-37-                                          A        
INDONESEE
QHL2M= D,=PEN P
Bp          _      _          US$                         %Total
---------        ----------------   % ~Foeq                 Bas
Local  Foreign    Total       Local Foreign   Total    Ex      e    Costs
I. INlEEnMOi MM9r
a. Irriuation  cus
1. SOrvoyan      gn           1653.4       0.0   1653.4        0.8      0.0      0.8         0.0       1.1
3.                            4 3mt8&.aterials  8.4  42646.0  4    9.4  2.3 9 .8    2391 9960         2.7
Sub-TOtal                       45067.1  44201.7  89268.8         22.0    21.6    43.5         49.5      61.6
B. Ds¢nestic Vater SupXply       1388.6   2083.0   3471.6          0.7     1.0      1.7        60.0       2.4
C. ab9 rvation WeLls              415.8    178.2    594.0          0.2     0.1      0.3        30.0       0.4
D. hr  . Sx gxrt Sevioes 1'4.        0.0   1649.0         0.8      0.0     0.8          0.0      1.1
E. Ins,1 xdSdgllSIEPart10257.6'       0.0  10257.6        5.0      0.0     5.0          0.0       7.1
3299.6      0.0   3299.6         1.6     0.0      1.6         0.0       2.3
147.5   1327.3   1474.8         0.1     0.6      0.17       90.0       1.0
H. Other Eculumet                 986.4    957.8   1944.2          0.5     0.5      0.9        49.3       1.3
I ConusplpI1 ts                  9018.2  11642.4  20660.6         4.4      5.7    10.1         56.4      14.3
J. S'De~1 Wlal Stu i1133.0                    0.0   1133.0         0.6     0.0      0.6         0.0       0.8
K. Proje!ct ab n stration        5791.5       0.0   5791.5        2.8      0.0      2.8         0.0       4.0
Total INVESTENT COSTS           79154.4  60390.3  139544.7        38.6    29.5    68.1         43.3      96.3
II. RE W CUUE T ERS
A. Initial O&N Support           5388.1       0.0   5388.1        2.6      0.0      2.6         0.0       3.7
84542.4  60390.3  144932.8       41.2    29.5    70.7         41.7    100.0
PnTsocal 5 ontljM#3nciejs     3028.0   3475.6   6503.5          1.5     1.7      3.2        53.4       4.5
PoWrIce   iWntaDR!ncss       16006.9   6694.6  22701.4          7.8     3.3    11.1        *29.5      15.7
Total P3£WECTS COSTS           103577.3  70560.4  174137.7        50.5    34.4    84.9         40.5    120.2
BP          -1$                                           tTotal
-     -        ~~~~--                               t Foreion     Bas
lca#l  Foreign    Total       Local Foreign    Ttal    Ex_     e    costs
1-m 1 il;tl°JnRb19395.6  16592.1  35987.7             9.5      8.1    17.6         46.1     24.8
5768.9 4305.2 10074.1       2.        .        .          27        7.0
3. Vus TrJt                    80v953    6300.6  1429829 3.9             3.1      7.         43.8      9.9
tfus&  TJJuur    1438.7    900.~182338.8          0.7     0.4      1.1         385       1.
274.6   1753.7   4497.3          1.3     0.       2.2         39.0       .1
6. O                           3904.6   2473.9   6378.5          1.9     1.2      3.1        3.8        4.4
76   «    p                    5651.6   32.0   9263.6           2.8      1.8      4.5        39         6.4
janun                         578      4402 9698.7             2.6     2.2      4.7                    .
2743.6   1753.7   4497.3         1.3     0.9      2.2         39.0      3.1
10. North Sinatra  2319.1   1469.2 3788.3           11       07       1.83.                 2.6
101. WestSi tra                 2319. 0   14468.6   3787.7       1.1      0.7      1.8        38.8       2.6
Sub-Total                        59658.7  45049.3 104708.0        29.1    22.0    51.1          43.0      72.2
B.ecbn. Monitor. & Sl zo2t 460 1                     42.4 73                                   .6       5.3
D *3Se   & Stl W s       10151.2  11642.4  21793.6          5 8     5       10.6        53.4      15.0
Total 1f IlIE OxXs               84542.4  60390.3 144932.8         4142    29.5    70.7         41.7    100.0
Pk Ilcal ContXnwncies          3028.0   3475.6   6503.5                    7      3.2        5.4        4
Or1" CR=    tlag              16006.9   6694.6  22701.4          1.8      3.3    11.1        29.5       45
Total PRO     cOSIC S           103577.3  70560.4 174137.7         50.5       34.4    84.9      40.5    120.2
S__    t___ __ __                                     uaSauzu
Ncoe: al All costs a¢e ghnvn in rmilion of cmwency uuiLS
bC Untoaksofgonm edbes b   develoe t faclliea ate S o giv   in Annex 3.
qf T&  rn  mof gmudwaW development facfes wxe gives in Atex S.



-38 -
3
5aMM0L WYAll3 DEVIELOPMIEW]PRO=E:
Dicliiisbursement Schedule
IBRD fiscal                       During
Year     4S andJ I==  Este b/   Cwnbb umuld
%          (US$ Milion)  (US$Million)      (%)
1993      2nd
1994      1st         0               0.0           0.0           0
2nd        0               3.0            3.0           6
1995      1st         3               1.6           4.6           9
2nd        6               4.7            9.3          17
1996      1st        10               4.3          13.6          25
2nd       18               4.4           18.0          33
1997      1st        26               4.4          22.4          41
2nd       34               5.4          27.8           51
1998      1st        42               5.4          33.2          61
2nd       50               5.6           38.8          72
1999      1st        58               5.6          44.4          82
2nd       66               4.8          49.2           91
000       1st        78               4.8          54.0          100 Cl
2nd       86
2001      1st        94
2nd       98
200Q      1st       100
a/ Standrd Disbursesal pmfe for hAia, Agricultue Projects, by smester afer Board appwvaL
COMDO, Aynl 2S, 1990.
b/  D       Apri al expected 9 D beer ttda the stanrard profile since all project wo  are a contuaton
of on-gaing p eos eet.
c/  Loan effcivaes date assumed as Jue 1. 1993; Loam closing datr December 31,1999.



-39-
Annxex I
Table 4
Perntage
of Expenditues
Anmount
(US$ Milion)
: ~~1. -Works
1.1   Iingation and Donmsdc Water
Supply Works                       10.2                40%
1.2  Observation Wells                    0.3                40%
2. Goods
2.1  liiaon Equipment and                22.7   100%/100%/65%)  of approved
Office and Survey Equipment /                             )  expenditures g/
3. SenJc
3.1  Survey, Investigations and Design    0.7                91%
Services
3.2  Agriucua   Suppt  Services           0.8                91%
3.3  Institutional Support Sevices        2.8                50%
3.4  Ibitial lhigation 0&1                1.5                50%
3.5  Training                             1.4                91%
4. Consultancies
4.1   Consultant Services                 9.1               100%
4.2  Special Studies                      0.5               100%
5. Unacati                                   _
1Qg1                     54.0
al  Of ppovedespediuus
b/  Excudig viddces (rveds. pocureme).
cl  100, forogp exp ures Xfr duectly impoted equipmen 100% of loca expendir (ex-faciy pric).
for localy man  d equipme_t and 65% for localy pocured off-theself itm.



- 40 -                                      Annex 1
1~~~~~A~~~~Q~~&IA 
Table S
GROU-NDWAT-ER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Finaning Plan
(US$ million)
Part A. fly Projcgt CoMmonen
IBRO         Covernment         Total                 Local
_______________________--__----------------_-------    For.    (Excl.  Duties
Amount    %    Amount    I    Amount               Exch.  Taxes)   A Tax.
A. Survey and Design               0.5   60.0       0.6   60.0      0.9    1.1       0.0      0.9      0.0
B. Works Irrigation Systems        9.9   40.0    14.9   e0.0    24.8   29.2          0.9    21.4       2.5
C. Irrig. Equipmnt &              24.8   90.0       2.8   10.0    27.8   32.4    24.8         0.2      2.6
D. Domestic Water Supply           0.9   40.0       1.3   60.0       2.2    2.6      1.3      0.7      0.2
E. Observation Wells               0.2   40.0       0.3   60.0      0.6    0.7       0.3      0.2      0.1
F. Agric. Support                  0.5   60.0       0.6   50.0       1.0    1.2      0.0      1.0      0.0
0. Institutional Support           3.0   60.0       3.0   50.0       6.9    7.0      0.0      5.9      0.0
H. Training                        0.9   60.0       0.9   60.0       1.9    2.2      0.0      1.9      0.0
I. Initial O0M Support             1.8   60.0       1.    SO.0      3.2    3.8       0.0      3.2      0.0
J. Vehicles                        0.0    0.0       0.  100.0      0.7    0.9       0.7      0.0      0.1
K. Other Equipment                 0.7   90.0       0.1   10.0      0.8    1.0       0.3      0.4      0.1
L. Consultants                    10.4   91.0       1.0    9.0    11.4   13.4        8.2      4.0      1.1
V. Special Studies                 0.5   90.0       0.1   10.0       0.8    0.7      0.0      0.6      0.1
N. Project Administration          0.0    0.0       8.4  100.0       3.4    4.0      0.0      3.4      0.0
_- -- - --     - -- - --   - - -          - -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - - - - - -                  
Total Disbursement                64.0   83.5    31.0   36         84.9  100.0    34.4    43.8         8.8
Part B. By Proeet ProvinCe
I3RD         Government         Total                 Local
-       -    -------      -------------    For.   (Exel.  Duties
Amount    X    Amount    X    Amount    X          Exch.  Taxes)       Tax.
A. East Java                      13.0   61.9       8.0   38.1    21.1   24.8         9.5      9.8     1.8
B. West Java                       3.6   60.2       2.4   39.8       6.0    7.0      2.6       2.9     0. ,
C. Nusa Tengara Barat              5.8   60.8       3.4   39.4       8.7   10.2       3.7     4.2      v.7
D. Nusa Tongara Timur              0.8   58.8       0.6   43.2       1.4    1.7      0.5       0.8     0.1
E. North Sulawesi                  1.6   57.6       1.2   42.6       2.7    3.2       1.0      1.5     0.2
F. Central Sulawesi                2.3   67.8       1.7   42.4       8.9    4.8       1.5     2.3      0.2
C. South Sulawesi                  3.2   67.8       2.3   42.2    656    6.6          2.1     3.0      0.c
H. Lampuns                         3.6   61.7       2.3   38.3       6.9    8.9       2.6      2.8     0.5
I. Aceb                            1.8   57.5       1.2   42.5       2.7    3.2       1.0      1.6     0.2
J. North Sumatra                   1.3   67.4       1.0   42.6       2.3    2.7      0.9       1.2     0.2
K. West Sumatra                    1.3   67.4       1.0   42.6       2.3    2.7       0.9      1.2     0.2
L. Techn. Uonitor. S               2.5   68.6       1.9   43.4       4.4    5.1    1.        2.6      0.8
M. Agric. Support Services         3.0   49.6       3.1   50.4       8.1    7.1      OS.       6.5     0.1
N. Cons. Services A Studies       10.9   90.9       1.1    9.1    12.0   14.2         6.2      4.6      1.2
-- - - --- -     - - - - -       - - -- -           - - - - - -  -
Total Disbursemnt                 64.0   63.6    31.0   86.6    84.9  100.0    84.4    43 8            6.8
---  -  -       -  -   -    -  -   -  -             --   -   - -------- -------



INDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMIENT PROJECr
Implarnentaion Schedule a/
No. of TubeweU Systems               Area/Scheme                Conumald Area (ba)
Type of
province         Tubmewelb Year 1 Year2 Year3 Year4 YearS Year6   Totad                   Year  Year2 Year3 Year4 YearS Year6   Total
EautJava            DT7W      0     23    23    23    22    22          113           30    0    690   690   690   670   660         3400
rrTV     0      92    92    92    92    92         460            10   0    920   920   920   920   920          4600
WestJava            1r7W      0      7     7      7      7     7         35           20    0    140   140   140   140   140          700
rrNM     0      34    34    34    34    34         170            10   0    340   340   340   340   340          1700
NusaTeugoraBas    DTW cl  0          0     0      15    1S    1S         45           20   0       0      0    300   300   300        900
nT1Wd/  0       43    43    43    43    43          215           10    0    430   430   430   430   430         2150
NusaTenuaraTmuMrrrWe/   0            0     1S    15    15   s1           60           10   0       0    150   1S0   150   1S0         600
Nodh Suawesi       1r1W       0     15    15    30    30    30          120           10   0    150   150   300   300   300          1200
Centnd Suawesi      rr1W      0     10    10    S0    50    50          170           10   0    100100    500   500   500            1700
soudhSulawesi       117W      0     50    50    S0    50    50          250           10   0    50 05  5 005  00  50                 2500
Ladupng             1r1w      0      4     4      14    14    14         50           20    0     80    80    280   280   280        1000
rrrw     0      7      7     29    29    28        100            10   0      70    70    290   290   280        1000
Acch               r11w       0     10    10    35    35    30          120           10   0    10   103   350   350   300          1200
Not Sumatra         rw        0     20    20    20    20    20          100           10   0    200  200   200   200   200           1000
WestSumra           llW       0     15    15    25    25    20          100           10   0    150  150   250   250   200           1000
Total  0    330   345  482   481   470          2108                 0    3870 4020  5640  5620  5500   24650
Notes:
a/ The mmnber of schemes refer to the compled buried pipe distribution systems; the tubwelUs would be compleed 6 to 9 monts earlier.
b/ MW - Deep Tubewell; 1MW - nmediate Temology TubewdL
c  Lombok1 dl Sumbawa; eo WestTimor



-43-                              Annex2
ROLNDWTERDELOPNESNA
AsupMptns for Proec Analysis
InSWucton
1.   The subproject areas are spread over eleven provinces and have substantial differences in
climatic conditions, soils and farmers' capability. Actual cropping pattems will evolve in any
subproject area and individual facility after taldng account of soil conditions. The patterns will be
decided by farmers themselves and depend on such factors as farmers' preferences and skills, and
possible marketing constraints with regard to vegetable crops. The project analysis has been
restncted to one analysis for each subproject area using simplified cropping patterns appropriate to
each subproject area. Benefits accruing from provision of community water supply (either formal
Or informal supply systems) and houseyard irigation have not been included in the analysis since
they cannot be quantified.
2.   Conversio          A standard conversion factor of 1.0, except for labor, has been used
for all costs and benefits in the economic analysis.
3.   Dim of Produce. Product pnices used in the analyses are shown by Table 1 of this Annex.
The economic prices for traded commodities such as rice, maize, soybean and groundnuts were
derived by using border prices in US dollars a,cording to IBRD commodity projections and were
converted to the local currency values at the exchange rate assumed under the project (Annex 2,
Table 3). In the analysis, it has been assumed that Indonesia will be self-sufficient in rice, maize
and groundnuts, while the project production for soybeans would be to substitute for imports.
Prices for vegetables were taken as medial farm gate price with appropriately adjusted handling and
marketing charges.
4.    Prcs of AgdguM  Inuts Prices of agricultural inputs used in the analyses are presented
in Table 1 of this Annex. Fertilizers have been valued at projected world market prices. Indonesia
exports substantial quantities of urea. Phosphate and potash fertilizers are either imported or
manufactured from imported raw materials. Lime is generally widely available and is usually
obtained locally. Economic prices for pesticides have been obtained from list prices of major local
suppliers. The economic price of seeds has been assumed to exceed the economic price of the
concmed commodities by about 50 percent.
5.   QPPWIity CQost OfLJb[. Farm labor wage rates vary throughout Indonesia, depending
on the opportunities for work, and are notably related to the extent of irrigation development in any
particular area. Also taken into consideration is that many project schemes are located in remote
areas. In the economic analysis, unskilled labor is priced at 90 percent of the market rate of
unskilled labor. A market rate of Rp. 2,500 per day (average for men and women), has been
assumed in Sulawesi, Aceh, North and West Sumatra, NTB and N1T. The market rates in Java
and Lampung are taken at about Rp. 2,200 per day, reflecting fewer alternative job opportnities
than in other parts of the country. The Lampung rate is affected by its proximity and access to Java.
poectm Cost
6.   Investment Costs. The capital costs of all works were based on 1992 contract rates.
Individual facilities are assumed to be completed within one year of work being initiated on them.
The costs of civil and mechanical works include additions for supervision of construction or
intallation. The physical contingencies have been assessed separately and would range from 0.0 to
10.0 percent. The cost of administration and overheads is included at an estimated rate of 5 perent
for all investment costs for all new tubewells and aU support components (except for technical



-44 -                                 Annex 2
assistance). Taxes and duties have been calculated following Government regulations. A VAT of
10 percent is due only on the parts of the civil works contracts not financed by the Bank.
7.    Operation and Maintenance Costs. Major items of O&M costs include: (a) fuel and
lubricants costs for running the pump engine; (b) pump operators salary plus payments made for
any assistance during high demand periods; (c) stipends paid to elected management of WUAs
(e.g., president, secretary and treasurer); and (d) maintenance of the facility, mainly minor spare
parts for pump units. Indonesia is an oil exporter and has domestic refining capacity at least
sufficient for its own needs. The prevailing financial prices of diesel fuel and lubricants are based
on world parity prices with adjustments to reflect internal handling, transport and marketing to the
location of use. Operation and management manpower inputs are treated as skilled labor, as is the
labor input for repairs. An allowance is made for government supervision inputs after facilities are
handed over to WUAs for management.
8.    Tubewell Rglacement Costs. The pumps and diesel engines have an assumed life of 15
years reflecting average annual running hours. O)ther components of the facilities are maintained
through the project life and do not require replacement.
9.   C    Yields. The 'future with' project yields are estimated on the basis of average yields on
existing tubewell inrigation systems and, where applicable, take into account soil fertility and other
factors. The justification of higher yields is the interaction of improved inputs (improved seeds,
fertilizers, crop protection) and a sufficient and reliable irrigation water supply to encourage their
use. The latter is also the reason for introduction of dry season palawija crops which could not be
grown with rainfall alone.
Ei m3cial A yW 
10.  Farm Budge. To simplify the analysis of a relatively large number of subprojects
distributed in eleven provinces, typical crop budgets (and thus benefit streams) were worked out for
typical subproject areas which could then be taken as representative of groups of subprojects. Farm
budgets were prepared with the assumed cropping pattern for the typical subproject areas. The
budgets cover only a representative range of conditons, using relatively conservative assumptions
for cropping patterns. Gross margins and costs of production were estimated using 1992 prices, as
presented in Table 4 of this Annex.
11.                      ---a . The payment capacity of irrigation beneficiaries would vary
considerably between subproject areas and within any specific area depending on the size of farm
holding. The situation has been tested by preparation of farm models for holdings of 0.5 ha for the
typical subproject areas selected for calculations of crop and farm budgets (para 10).
12.  £t Recovr. The support of initial O&M costs during the first two years is to reduce the
risks associated with transition from rainfed to irrigated agriculture by providing a full and
guaranteed irrigation service during this critical period. However, during this transition period,
farmers would be expected to pay their WUA for water, with accrued income placed in a reserve
fund against any long term major repair costs. WUAs would also be encouraged to use these
savings for short term as an agricultuml credit source for the group beneficiaries. In addition, after
the initial O&M support, farmers will have no option but to meet full O&M costs if they want an
irrigation service. Another factor taken into consideration is that O&M costs of groundwater
development are high compared to surface irrigation schemes, while capital costs are relatively low
per unit area served Thus, total cost recovery under the project will be high compared to typical
surface irrigation schemes. In addition, other users of tubewell water (domestic water supply and
house garden irgation) would pay at rates set by WUAs to reflect incremental O&M costs of the



.45-                                 Annex2
Page
service provided, and there would be indiect cost recovery through increase in land tax (PBB) once
the land status changed from rainfed to irrigated.
Bonawi Analys,a
13.   Backgrond. Economic evaluations have been carried out using Economic Rate of Return
(ERR) calculations for 20 subprojects in 11 provinces. Cast sams include all capital costs and
physical contingencies, but exclude transfer payments such as taxes and duties. In addition, the full
cost of consulting services are accounted for in the economic analyses and attributed pro rta to the
development area. The cost of unsuccessful wells is also included with an assumed failure rate of
10 percent for £)TWs and 5 percent for ITI Ws. An allowance has also been made for depreciation
of drilling rigs as components of well construction cost. It is assumed that the wells will be drilled
using P2AT equipment under contract arrangements. Benefit streams used to assess economic
benefits are based on estimating the difference between the agricultural production in the 'future
with' and 'future without' project situatons. The analyses have been carried out are based on the
typical subproject areas selected for calculations of crop budgets (para 10). Buildup of benefits is
assumed over four years after facilities are commissioned, and individual facilities are assumed to
become operational within one year of the physical works being initiated. An agricultural
development component has been defined and costed (Annex 9), and is included in the economic
analysis on a pro rata area basis.
14.   The base ERRs for all subproject areas, together with present net value (NPV) are given in
Table 5 of this Annex and esimate the ERR for the overall project at about 14.5 percent. However,
this project indicator has relatively limited significance since all schemes have their own particular
characteristics of costs and benefits which are location specific. Thus, the ERRs are calculated to
range from 11.4 percent (DTW facilities in Madura, East Java) to 17.7 percent (lITW facilities in
Besuki, East Java). lITW facilities generally have higher ERRs (with a range of 12.0 percent to
17.7 percent) than DTW facilities (with a range of 11.4 percent to 13.8 percent). However, a
dssign criteria is that DTW would only be proposed in areas where ITrWs are not technically
viable. Table 5 also shows that investment costs of the tubewell facilAties range from Rp 4.0 million
to Rp 6.4 million per ha and net benefits range fiom about Rp 0.9 mllion to Rp 1.2 million per ha.
15.   Sensit Analvses. Analyses were carried out for all schemes to test the sensitivity of
their ERRs to variations in investment costs and direct benefits as detailed in Table 6 of this Annex.
The tests reflects the variables in costs and benefits which can be expected from groundwater
irrigation development with a large number of separate tubewell systems spread over areas with
different physical and social deminants.
16.   To estimate any negative impact on the economic viability, cost changes of +10 percent and
+20 percent were tested, primarily to assess the effect of deeper wells than anticipated and
vaiations in the costs of equipment and materials. Reduction in the expected benefits of -10 percent
and -20 percent were also tested to reflect what could occur due to changes in cropping patterns or
cropping intensities as farmers respond to crop pricing and marketing opportunities. In this respect,
the main risk to benefits would be lower than expected area put to high value crops in the dry
seasons . This test would also take into account that the project specifically targets poor farmers
who may be more risk averse than assumed. In addition, a delay of one year in achieving benefits
was tested to reflect possible delays in the farmers making the transition from rainfed to irrigated
agriculture. Sensitivity to delays in implementation were not tested because each facility is a
separate operational entity and there is little risk that delays in the total construction period would
exceed one year. Tests show that ERRs are fairly stable against the tested levels of cost increases,
but more sensitive to the tested range of benefit reductions. This last indicator justifies the attention
given under the project to planning and design criteria (para 19 below) and the post-construction
phase of the development.



-46-                                 Annex 2
Pagg4
17.  If the design assumptions are not varied (see para 18 below), the tests results in Table 6 of
this Annex indicate that the estimated ERRs could fall below 10 percent in a number of subproject
areas if benefits are reduced by 20 percent, or cost increased by 20 percent. These low values
would relate to the unlikely event that the capital costs per unit area of DTW facilities would be
higher than anticipated. However, the phasing of the project into 'go-ahead' and 'expansion'
programs woulld require that the project economic viability be assessed before marginal impact areas
are fully developed, since a criteria for reinstating 'expansion' areas is the acceptable performance
of£existing tubewell systems in the area.
18.   Also tested are factors that may have a positive impact on the economic analysis, in
particular, the premise that project costs and benefits are based on conservative assumptions. This
was tested by assuming that (a) the command area served by the standard facilities be increased by
10, 20 and 30 percent, thus reducing capital costs per unit area 1/; and (b) running hours per annum
for typical wells be decreased by some 20 percent, thus reducing the O&M costs. The tests under
item (a) for both 11TW and DTW facilities have assumed that the distribution system costs would
not change, since the increase in distance from any oudet valve via farm channels to a field would
increase, on average, by only 20 to 50 meters with the irrigadon supply spread over a larger area.
19.   Specific design criteria considered to be conservative are that: (a) maximum pump running
hours are assumed at only about 18 hours per day; (b) the irrigation requirements are conservatively
calculated; and (c) average well discharges could be higher than assumed if the wells are more
efficiendy designed. These design assumptions can be varies as the project proceeds and changes
during the detailed planning and design process for each project tubewell site should enable
tubeweli systems to become more cost-effectve.
20. With respect to items (a) above, if the maximum pumping of about 18 hours per day were
made less restrictive, the additional pumping hours could also be converted into an increase in
command area served. For example, the estimated ERRs would (on average) increase by about
four percentage points if maximum pumping hours were increased to 22 hours a day for short
periods allowing a command area increase of some 20 percent.
21.  With respect to item (b) of pam 18, there is strong evidence that farmers, on average, are
using less water per crop season than the calculated inigation requirements without a measurable
decrase in crop production. This would imply that the assumed design water duty and pumping
hours (which defines a tubewell command area) are based on conservative estimates of irigation
requirements (Annex 8). Furthermore, a separate test shows that a 20 percent decrease in pump
running hours (with benefiting remain the same), would only increase the ERRs by about one
percentage point.
22.   With respect to item (c) of para 18, there is evidence that, on average, well discearges are
not maximized when the bore hole is constructed. Many bore hole logs of existing wells indicate
that all the productive aquifer strata have not been screened. This shortcoming would be addressed
by better quality contol during the construction of the well points. In addition, command areas are
not planned to reflect the actual well point discharge (known once the well point is developed and
tested and before the buried pipe distribution system is constructed). The conmnand area should be
designed to a duty of 1.0 I/sec/ha 2 / based on the actual measured discharge of the well point, and
not assumed discharges for DTWs (30 V/sec) and IrTWs (10 /sec). Review of planning and design
procedures under the project would specifically address issues related to over design of facilities.
I/ An incr in command area is assumed to result in an equivalent linear irease in benefits.
21  Mm design duty (1.0 Usca) may be reduced if it is confrmed tt this stndd inigation duty is too
conswtve (see paras 20 and 21).



-47-
DW~A
IDMONESI.A
GROUNDWARDEMELDEMPROMCr
EcwwMIC and Pinnol Ptic=
dPA
unit FPmela        Economic             Reauda
I    Pfoduct }Oes                                 (Rp)
Ric            dry unbq d      Kg    270            284      Self-a qcuacyaumed
Soybea         gain            Kg    800           520       Baned on Impeot sbdhulon
Ma             goIn           Kg    230             199      Sw4Umencyasuund
Ormnduts       bedlonts    KS         900           799      Sav-usuemcy        ed
CASSav         wet ot          KS      0             0       FW=Wcalprice
Cbi            fwhft.t        KS    500             SOo      Fbmci prc
SWUMot         fXshftk        Kg    400            400       Flnuca4l
Log Bean        resh ftIt      Kg    210            210      FIancialp 
Watermelona    *h  XrI         KS    180            180       }:lal pric
FMMci pric
2    RocduotuInput
2.1 FertI
Utea                          Kg    240            444       B"edonExpfpW*prWce
TSP                           Kg    280            429       Bueanonbport parlkypdre
KCL                           Kg    280            372       Based oan pontpaltprce
ZA                            Kg    1SO            300       Bsed an Epotpuiy prc
2.2 Seed
Rice                          Kg    500            SOo       Bonomic picepi"s50%
Soybea                         Kg    1000          800       Born  iprim piss 50
Maize                         Kg    600            350       _epomicpriceplus50
a _ounut                      Kg    1200           12110      se3  Ic price plus 50
CaIsaa                        Kg      4             4        FInancIal pric
ClI                           KSg   3            300000      FacW pdrc
Shat                         MT    600             600       Phnw pr
Watermo                       tin  250000        2 0         p       pice
Lng bean                        1   10000         10000      Fi wprice
23 Agochemical
Pesde                         Kg   15000          iS0        FiaOO  p1Ce
bsectca                       XKg   1500          15000      Fin    pice
Ratpolon                      Kg    3000          4000       FIacl pie
24 Labor
Humanlabour                   day    2200          1980      90% of falmcw  ate
Draft Power           pbd ay    4000              4000       100%   fnacisealrae
MeanaCalL                     day     0             0        100% OffiacW  re
No:  As of N?ovin    1992.



INDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPEIE PRO3ECr
CQp Areas (ha)
PROVNCE                            East    West                      North   Central   South                      North    West
Java    lava    NTB       NIT  Sulawesi Sulawesi Sulawesi Lampwg    Aceh  Sumatra  Sumata  TOTAL
A  Coamul aArea Oha)                  8000    2400    3050       600      1200    1700    2500    2000    1200    1000    1000   24650
B  Tot Cp Aea m   a)
Pa*  (wet season)
P&WO          6720    2400    1520        480     1200      275    2500    2000       1200    1000      700    19995
W             8000    2400    2300        600     1200      770    2500    2000    1200    1000    1000   22970
P*ay (dry seasom)
P&WO           516        0        0        0        0        0       0         0       0        0      400      916
W             3111     1200      525      120      720      220    1450      1000      360     500      700    9906
mwe
P&WO                                                                                                            6528
W             2212      480    1863       330      360    1210      700       400      600     400      300    8855
Sayben
P&WO          2709      480      635      120      360        0     600      300      240      1S0      300    5894
W             3745    1200    1953        330      540        0     950      900      480      300      300    10698
Grmonut
P&WO          1957      480      225        0      240     430      150      300        0      200      300    4282
W             3401      960      630        0      300     1320     600       800     360      300      300    8971
Mungbau
P&WO             0        0        0        0        0      330       0        0        0        0        0      330
W                0        0        0   --0           0      550       0        0        0        0        0      550
H48h Value I (shallot)
P&WO             0        0       88        0        0       0        0        0        0       50        0      138
W             1806      480    1140       180      240     400      800      500      360      400      200    6506
High Value U (tobsc)
P&WO            63        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0        0       63
W              125        0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0       125
TOTAL
P &WO        14325    4320    3145        720    2160    1245    3750    3200         1680    1600    2000   38145
W            22400    6720    8410    1560    3360    4470    7000    5600    3360    2900    2800   68580
P - pet situaion; W/o - 'utr witue projectad W - future with' project.



DONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Crop Producton
PROVINC                        East   West                   North  Centa   South                     North   West  Gri
Java    Java   NTB    Nlf Slawesi Suawesi SulawesiLampung   Acel Sumata Sumatra   Total
A Command Area (ha)              8000   2400   3050    600   1200   1700   2500   2000    1200    1000   1000  24650
B  ncmea  rduton ('pe   'with' pre  m on) a/
Paddy                        31528   10200   9088   2100   5640   3438   11525   8500   3840   3500   4500  93858
Maize                         4004    288   4767    834    612   3378    1450    480    1536    880    420  18649
Soybean                       3384    1272   1473    357    486          0    875    990    504    270         150   9761
Groundnut                     3126    912    644         0    240   1369    645    810    432    220           150   8547
Mungbean                         0       0       0       0       0    517        0       0       0       0       0    517
High Vale - Shnot             12642   3360   7411    1260   1680   2800   5600   3500   2520   2475    1400  44648
Eigh Value-Tobacco               88      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      88
C In1ment Production (fte without' I wt project, m too) hi
Paddy                        27910   9000   8328    1860   5040   3300   10275   7500   3240   3000   3950  83402
maize                         3084       0   4440    834    468   3315    1200    300    1440    800    300   16181
Soybean                       2842    1176   1391    333    414          0     755    930    456    255        120   8672
Goundnut                      2734    816    599         0     192   1283    615    750    432    200          120   7741
Mungbean                         0       0       0       0       0    451        0       0       0       0       0    451
Hifh Value - Shallot          12642   3360   7411    1260   1680   2800   5600   3500   2520   2475    1400  44648
High Value-Tobacco              84       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      84
el Difference in production between present' and 'uture with projecL
bI Differene m producton between'fuue withou' and'with' propc



- so -                       
atemookkowdodfaIakk
ORUNWA1DV.PIMIC
DPKRTPART                                 MMOMPARRY
Unit      4JL    1992   1995   ?Um            t      1     1992   1995  2m00
RIC
111i51 Sbak, F.Bwk                              254    2       261       $IMT             294    m       265
Qual  A4u t                   10o        -      26S    245    239        15aS             25o    231    22S
Rw&ahmwce                     St         +    35  35  35                                    0    0    0
CIFIFOB Ind mPwt             CIP/MFr            300    280    274       PwBm              2S0    211    22S
CWFiPOB l h in  Pon          CWIRpIK            608    56S8   S5S        Oe Rp4           507    4      457
PmWth=sim     aowwsa           A         +       30      28    2a        5         -       25     23     23
TimptoWhoa+                                       10     1O     10                         10     10      10
Who     lwMr                             +       IS      15     15                 -       t5     iS      15
Tmatn* Mig toWhakea                              to0    10      10                         10    tO       10
Trads Met&                               -        15     15     15                         is5     5      15
-adilul                                         639    596    583                         432    396    384
Cuwerslano 6a1a                          -      415    388    379        6-               281    257    250
Mifimbas                                         20      20     20                 -       20     20     20
Trpn toMi0                               -        tO     tO     t0                 -       t0     t0      10
B oaMWFcPmnwp*o                                 385    358    349                         251    227    220
Avmp h      iast                                318    292    284
CORN
US No2yuow,PB US Olf           Mr                115    101    10                         115    101    105
QuaatyA4Uan 0A                                   I15    101    10        151%              98     86     89
pfw&lht&b     me              SW         +       25      25     25        Sr       +       tO     10      10
CB         Jho_em  Pat       ClPa/              140    126    130       P    UIt          108     96     99
CW FO B t indnedi Pat        CWPRjV             284    256    264       FOBRp14           219     95    201
Posehaih      tola            5s         +       14      13     13       511               11     10      10
ThnpottoWbalmle                                   10     10     10                 .       10     10      10
WholessM Drgln                           +       is5    15       5                         1s5    15      iS
T_aitoWhlel                              -        10     10     10                         tO     10      10
TW MN                                    -        15     15    iS                  -       t5     t5      i5
Tnmpnoatmm                               -       t1      10     10                 -       1O     10      10
B rm.Io      gate q           llpl4             288    259    267                         148    125    131
AvwV   pmp     post           RpKg              218    192    199
SOYBEAN
SobanUSCIFRoaSdml                               256    252    229
QualbAU4usuana                5is               243    239    218
FrM1sdgbt &ne                 S/Tr       +       30      30     30
CFPAFOB nbbedi Past          cP/mrt             273    269    248
CIPF/FB A dasldanWPat        C1FRtpK            555    547    503
Ptbnhadli stalom ea           511        +       28      27     25
TrmqxsttobWoledabe                       +        12     12     12
Wboklabsar Ma*                           +       30      30     30
Tramsput.oWbohaks                        -       10      10     10
Trodi=r mMSin                                    30      30     30
TrasPnAstfxtnfm                                  10      10     tO
Bomanic Psnn-gatnps e         Up/g              574    566    520
GROUNDNULS
Grak. ne oil CP Rasordir       W                633    646    581        SWr              633    646    sIt
Bqm.CT hda      e phsfr
duiledgwW W uM&               75S               475    485    436        7511            475    485    436
QRwitysbuut                   011               475    485    436        51              451    460    414
CWIRIOBJnwk b dP  t          CIPSM              475    485    436                         451    460    414
C3/FOB 11don"i Pons          CIFRVg             S64    984    S85                        916    934    840
PastMshg*creb1ance            51         +       48      49     44       511               46     47     42
Thnpostt DWbo i  +et 10                                  10     10                 .       10     10      10
Wbadw_Masgln                             +       30      30     30                 .      30      30     30
T pstt*Whdsar                            -        10     10     10                 -       10     10      10
Thde nMwg80 30                                           30     0o                         30     30     30
Traaupahmf2tni                                    5      25     25                 -       2      25     2S
BoaPam         _pcFau-gtplo   Rp4i              987   1008    9M                          76S    783    693
Awva  hns/Epat                Rp/KS             876    895    799
d  Al pri    e aile    -  1992 bdoulk do4dtgSdA_St3 upd          IeddsWasMBwkomdllkypieefecah
b/ EDsdm,esutupiahtlaUSSS20f



- 51 -
AnW2
IDMONESI
GROUNDWATER D£VEUPMEr PROJEC=
Calculaton Of Economic Input and OutpuPrice WI/
IMPORT PART                          E    R PARfTY
Unit      +1.    1992   1995   2000    Unt  +1-   1992   1995   2000
UREA
Ura FOB Eup                                                             S             ISO    161    174
ihwt & I anc                                                                    +       10     10      *0
Priceex-facy Ineda                                                      SMT            160    171    184
Price ox-factory In edonesa                                             Rpg           S325    347    374
Tnsport to Wlesaler                                                             +      40      40     40
Stge & Wholeserargin                                                    5%      +      is      15      IS
Tlanpor to Fan                                                                  +       iS     15      15
Economic Faeae Pdre                                                                   395    417    444
TRIPIE SUPERPHOSPIWAE cl
Bulk TSP, FOB Floda            $/M                125    140    137
Fght&IsrawcePwemim                                 40      40     40
Rice ex-fcn y  ozyndoda       CIF(wF               165    180    177
P.ce ex-factory Ir_onesa      CIF RpKg            335    36S    359
PbrtdcharuinginhldingbaUinS                +       25      25     25
Tnuspor to Wholesaer                       +        IS     IS      tS
Sorg & Whosaer Margn                       +       1S      15     1S
Tr1spot to Farm                            +        1      15      IS
Economic Paom    Pric                             405    435    429
POrASSIUM CHLORIDE (KCL)
Bulk KCL, FOB Vancuve           /                 112    112    109
Freight & Insurance Premium                        40      40     40
Price ex-fcMy Ioesa           CIF SMT             152    152    149
Pricex-aobry Idonsia          CF Rpltg            309    309    302
PortcnrgiDg icwxVngbeb ng                  +       25      25     25
TlasporttoWholesaer                        +        15     15     15
Stor   & Wholesaler Margin                 +       15      15     15
T       tnspor  Fann                       +        15     15     IS
Econmic Fampgt Price                              379    379    3
al A  pries ar in conant 1992 doa, calculuaed g the August 3.1992 pd  of te Waddo ank  mmodiy priceforecas
b Exchange mte Rupiah to the US$ - 2050
c/ TSP 46 petmt P205.



-52 -
Table4
INDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Summary of Net Farm Incomes and Tlgaion O&M Costs of 05 Ha Fams
Net Fwm Inomes
O&M
Income            Incrmntal        igadon As Pereage
item      Province              Well  'Vithout       WIt&'      PFom Income   O&M Costs   of Net
(subproject area)        Type   Project      Project                               Fam Income
(OOO)   (RpWO) (R'000)   (%)   (pOOO)                (%)
A East Java
Besuki                     I1W      264        686       422      260       141         21
DrW      264         698       434      264       130         19
Surabaya                rmrw        271        549       278      203       124         23
DTW       271        544       273       196      129         24
Mwadua                   ITIW       261        516       255       198      141         27
DTV      261         535       274      205       122         23
Madfun                   rrIVw    302          696       394      230       141         20
DTW      302         708       406      234       129         18
B  WestJava                   rTrW       255        662       407      260       142         21
DTW      255         681       426      267       124         18
C  Nusa Tengam Baat
Lonbok                    DrW       95         650       555      684       232         36
Sape/Kel                 rITW       246        634       388      258       199         31
Kempo                     17rW      73         366       293       501      134         37
D  Nusa Tenggam Trur          171W       174        526       352      302       124         24
E  North Sulawed              ITIW      234         551       317      235       139         25
F  Central Sulawesi
MarawoLa                r17W        97         469       372      483       160         34
Daaka                    r7rw       38         427       389      1124      115         27
0   South Sulawesi
Gowa                      Irrw      211        540       329      256       153         28
Mas                      ITrW      224         537       313      240       159         30
I- sa¢pn
Rumbia                    DTW       233        673       440      289       148         22
Raw Sragi                 rrTW      249        662       413      266       142         21
1  Acch                       ITrW      157         527      370       336       139         26
K  North Sumatma              IrrW       267        594       327      222       107         18
L  WestSumatrm                rr1W      302         S80       278       192      107         18
Dfmitions:
a/ Net Farm Income: gros iomes minus aU costs, including fmily labour
valued at current wage ame and rigatdon O&M costs.
b/ hIigadton O&M Costs al operaing and replaoents costs of the systms.
c/  1TTW - Intmdate TechnologyW TubeWwl DTW - Deep Tubewell.



-53-                                                   xZ
1NONES1A
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROXT (GWDP)
Pojeo Econoc Anlyas by Subpmje  Auas Wd FaPt Type a/
ba-ial             C4ppin        Net Crpping  htimme
Povince/           Facflity   Total Sdsme       NPV        CoApe Pnpg   b         qauy    MarinpehecWa     MaWn
Sbpret Area         Type    Am   Ae  EIRR  perhbI   Hote    Perod (W/O)  (W)  (WO)   (W)    (per ha)
on)   0.      9   (p M.)  (R00) (how)   %             %  (RpW00) (RplWQ)  W0O  p
EASTIAVA
Suebay             11W    1,S60      30   17.0     2.02     4,033   2,0  180  280           40  1.550      1.010
DlTW    1,050    10   13        1.16    5356   2.800  180   280       S40   tS50    1.010
Madiun             lW    1m0         30   16.7     1.94     4.033   3,240  180   280       S60   1.590    1.030
DIW    1.080     10   1.        1.12    5.3S6   3,240  180   280       560   IS90    1,030
Besuki             rIW    1.540      30   17.7     225      4.033   2,900  180   280       440    1,490    1.050
DTW    1020      10   13.8      1.40    5.356   2.9Q0   180   280      440    1,490    1,050
Madua              171W     250      30   114      0.49     5356   2.980  150   280        640    1,570      930
WVEST JAVA
ASAea              nw    1.700       10   16.2     1.79     4.031   3X80  180   280        520    1.530    1,010
DTW      700     20   119      0.73     5.787   3,280  180   280       S20   1.530    1.010
NTB
Lonbok             DTW      900      20   1.8      0.76     6.256   3,650   70   270        90    1,26S    1.175
Sumbawa Kempo      llW      400      10   12A      OS68     4,102   3.120   60   270       140   I.O       860
SumbawaS*eKi   llW    1.750          10   "A       1.4S     4.102   3,430  130   280       420   1,400       980
NIT
Al Anas            1l       6Q0      10   120     042      4.527   3.00  120   260        370   1.260       890
NORTH SULAWESI
AS Aes             lW    1t200       10   U1       0.88     4.189   3.200  180   280       470   1,370       900
CENTRALSUIAWESI
DalakaI anwa        mv      600      10  1I"9      1.13     4.176   2,550   70   250        60     940       8EO
MuawolalBlrouiarU   lTW    1.1Q0     10   14.0     1.14     4,176   3.750   75   270       ISO    1.130      970
SOUtTHSULAWESI
GovaTakuilm      IlTW   1.500        10   16.7     1.97     4.112   3,580  120   280       470   1.540    1.070
MaroelPaagjojsn.    11W    1,000     10   143      1.24     4.112   3.720  150   280       460    1,440      970
LAMPUN
Punbia             DTW    1.000      20   IIJ      0.64     6,403   3,280  160   280       SQO    1,610    1,110
RawaSiai           11W    1,000      10  19       1.71     4.142   3.280  160   280       520    1,530    1.010
ACEH
AU Anrns           rlW    1.200      10   13.1     1.09     4.151    3.200  140   280      340   1.260       920
NORTH SUMATRA
AS AAs              1W    1,O00      10   12       074      4.291    2      160   280      550   1.360       810
WEST SUMATRA
AS Aneas            1lW    1,W0      10   1.0    0.58       4.272   2,380  2Q0   280       600    1,410      800
PROJEBT                    24,650          14.5     134      4,516
Not=  a See Amu 2. Te"6 fu unadvt  ayds.
b/ NP       W calcudet  10pe  discount mI.



- 54-
Annex 2
GROUNWATU DEVEFPMENT PRORF (CWDP)
1mm* SmidviyAndyrs by Subojeft A" ad Fail Type
at       boom            Deen       & De..           Inr.           OaeYea
P rhn               Fi    Am    NM   Pmais             coo            Umefita        tau          B    abl         Delay
Sb Jec               TMp    tb       a   lass 20     101    2011    10#    2S        10%   by 1011 by 20by 301  Beefit
E"SI JAVA
Surabaa             MW   150   17A         17W9    153    13.9    14.7   12.2       13.2   19,2  21A   23.5   IS.S
0V1   1050   1U        138    11.7   10.5    113    92          9.9    15S    16A    18.5   12.2
MadiUm             1       150   1.        17.8    15.1   13.7    14.3   11.8       129    19.0   21.2   23.4    15.2
OWM   10M0   1SU       1.7    11.6   10.4    11.1    9.1        9.8    15.0   168   18.5    12.0
BDM                MM   IS4D   17.7    18          160    146    1         1.3      13.8   20.    22.    24.4    16.1
011W  1O0   13         144    12.3   11.1    11.9    98         I0S    15.7   17.5   19.3    12.7
Mad_a               01W    250    11      1M       10.0   8.       93      74       83      13.2   14.    16.5   10.4
WEIFJAVA
All Aha             1      1700   16       173    14.7   13.3    13.9   IIA         12A    185   20.7   22.8    14.8
1W    700    U         12      105    93       10.     8.       8.8    13.    153   16.9    11.0
NTh
Lenbak               V W           18U   12.6   IQ         9.2     9.8    76        8.5    13.7  ISA    173    10.8
SudmbwaKnuo         MW   400        24     136    ILl    10.3    8Q        9.0      14.5    14     16.4   183    113
flb leS&dl    1WM   1750   SU              16.2    135    12.2    17    10.3        11.4   173   19.4   21.5    13.6
NIT
AD Ar               lW   600    1U         10    10.7   9.5    10.0    7.7          87      14.0   15.9   17.7   10.9
NO0RTIISULAWBSI
A  Ara               1W   1200   131    14.2    11.7   I05    I9    8               9.6    15.1   17.1   19.0    11.9
CaflRZSLW139
Da_ mwa            nW   m          1.      14.8    12      11.2    11.8    96       105    15.9   17.8   19.7   127
_               Ilq1W   1100   14.0    15.2    12.5   113    11.7    9.2        10.3    16.2   18.3   203    12.7
SO(rr1SUUAWVM
owaTubbIm          IITW   ISO    1.7    17.9    1.1   13.7    14.3   11.7           12.8    19.0   21.3   23.5    15.2
MmuIPaaajaVJau     111W   1000   143       15.6    129    1        12.0    9.5      10.7   16.5   18b   20.7   13.0
LAMUMNG
Rmnba                1W   1000   1IJ       1       1QI    8.9      9.7    7.7        8.4    13.3   15.    1"       10.6
Rawva SoWIW   1000   S                     17.     14.4   13.0    13.    11.1       12.2    18.2   20.3   22A      14.5
ACNI
All Areas          lWM   1200    33U    14.9    12.4   11.1    11.    9.2           10.3   15.9   17.9   19.9   12.6
NORTIEMAIURA
All ArI W   1000   124                     134    11.3    1.       10.7    8.       9.4    14.5   18.2   20.3    11.
WESTSU MARA
AllAs               MMW  1000   1          129     10.7    9       10.1    8.0      8.8    13.9   15.7   17.4    11.0
ROrF            2436     145     1.4    13       11.7    1.1    I.        109    165   18.   20.5    13.2
o/ 20 p t_ h_<lqnb                       _sn         me.o           *k     mad  aiy oe         todut aifa
bJ i.ewe_ inbmuA d%mi wa _  t- w    du puaslwdeh    _          Swh da   mfwa waUil dbas o teduced liuadmi duly.
h _smdm  =Aodf seEm*        sW        ml     ae dba_d i Amax 8



-55-
Annex 3
TA~A
Table 1     East Java
Table 2     West Java
Tabic 3     Nusa Tengara Bare
Table 4     NusaTeng    Tmur
Table 5           Sulawesi
Table 6     Central Suawes
Table 7     South Sulawesi
Table 8     Lampung
Table 9     Aceh
Table 10    Naoh Sumatra
Table I     West Sumatra
OdwrCMEst simate Tbe
Table 12    Gonudwater Monitin  Studies ad Oer Support
Table 13    Agriull Spport Sevices
Table 14    Consul Servies



i-NsEsXsdls6|XsaliC~~~~~~~BWcomToal
Walt  93/94  94-96 96/9?  97198 9899" Tot&l   _193-99    I199/9  1994-96 19%9819   1991/   1998/9   WoAl    199319  1994/9   19A         9   1998/91  1991/98  198/9 toa
1. 111ro ass
A. Sam tno DesIp
W           ~ 896 Osslon                  U      U     U      U       8   W          1Z!   ~ 8:81    6: t    8 3    6U: Z           8:8   6:t          658    D:        NOD I    11:               8:8   X:I
0.?dW   ---C101.5    15.1   105.?      0.0   134.6       110.i- i 11.    123.2   12I       134.6      0.0   672.?
1K  | X I t | j g gDiv  iak                                                    291         1. 34  s                                      .1  i!                                                 :- 1 i1
,.w                                                                                   I                                                                                      ... .I....1..0.. _ _ ... ......
1089.2  2312.6  2348.2  2328.0  1263.2  11173.6       1194.2  2126.9  213.8  29.1  3131.1  1791.8 1014.8
C.3             r    U      U3   2U       U2   )E         1352        8:8    332 1     3Z 41:~    U:2    I!:4    3 :7        8:8    35t    1 376         ? o:3 I1 8:  9   1    13 :1
I  tO                                                                                              0.0    64.5 64. 5        63.1    63.1   319.8          0.0    69.9    13.8   71.8    80.3    84.8   385i.
D. IEt fl ..                                          ill t                           18:1111 
{g.-                          0     1                            22                    10          239 g    J.g..g         1                                      262 ,,.1         267-1  i.                S
VW. fi1  9q!P                                                                              §0t.3  3108.9  3098.5  3030.0  2533.1  1538.1         548.9  3496.4  3604.8  3104.4  33tM.1  3233.3 18314.6
lC. ritS                    gt              e    5t    8?    55t    St   1|5          2288        8:8   12Ii:1   16225        1    :1    M:I           8:8   dii    dI:s   $F: 25          :  UO wt e. 0i
F. FSia*- t aR5                                                                                    0.0   18S.1   18.1   108.1 188.1    940.5              0.0   219.2   227.8   236.1   246.1   255.8  1185.5
F.F            E                                1        i im       i   i                  12U                                                                                            I
Wlb                      ~~~~~~~~~~13  1   1   13  1                                 8   8          4:    9 __U  38fflS    5e 
5 1-uw                                                                                           07.6   191.2   191.2   191.1 1is1.1  113.6             U6.3   20.1   219.3   230.1   243.2   296.6  Ui72.9
A    8       e8 I88 8:8 5|8 8                - - -88 -                        8      0 2     8:81D 8   1.6
5>  ~22e 1.0     10.e   5.0  10.0 0.0 27                         0.0                                     2291.2
a2         4 k           1  6. n s                                                       6.c  <
Sub-Total                                                                                        231.4   349.1   346.8   341.9   237.2  1861.4          243.9   378.4    99.2   418.4   435.1   318.5  2193.1
total nV TUT C3                                                                                        4549.2  6382.2  6343.1  6241.8  445.8  3430.2          4803.1  7215.0  1521.4  t192.8  80S.1  S940.8  4218.1
tl. 1so qsis
.... -  .. 
A. Inlial Irrlgation  c0  D                                                                                                                                                                     M
S    UO P2     P2        U2      111 Pse3             8:8  t1l        M       Bi  1 11:1       5S658    _   8:8   M1    HO0          1!:!3 21 1    W14  11159
8.  'etLln.                 c3'-          -     -           -        -        - --                     8:8   3Uti    1 37885 4   31°5 2   3t5 2   1  0        8:8   3316 }    3        1l.6   3  3   W29.4 '.1 6
M       Sobl M_axUs                                            ~.;-i.6~3 2-6-38; 31                                                           8;-47.             0      i.; 350i         M.3;0  --9-;- 52~ ;27.5-i9-U.i       ^
tst7" a2Stfltgattftat sstaata. gnat. a...   _Ssat  lSan. tttat attateat Sant  Sflaf tata
total                                                                                               4549.2  6705.8  6666.7  65S6.2  41t9.1  3596.1         4803.1  7565.1  1891.5  8183.2  8410.4  6368.3 43222.2
af Unit ams arm iIlsive of ta ds   M            es and scalod by 1000;  bas sl ta        l ucoo as e scaed by 1000.000.
(1) Proj ctsdmisra nsat5%of                 esunaucosts. (2) Esdmaadcostsofopratonduringrus3000b s. (3) Recurat    b                                     dstaia   t5%ofrecw mTtcOts.



pA1t cost                      BSW  Costs                                    To          dn   m
bit   9319   *94-    97/93  98/99  towa       199149      1993194   99-97  1997/98  1998/99                IMts   1 t93 A4  1 I9/95   9 196  W 197  19979   19919    Tta
317    314        8    13          'itl        Al       Al       2121       8:8    10:1         41       P42l     18:I      11:l     9:        8:8    A?:8
Tots                                                                    32.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--   3  32.3  32.3  0.0    161.3  3341    35.0  36.9  38.9  41.1      0.0    18.0
8         I4 34  3     1370       II 3a2 0.                      19ii     NO       N It                  111P:    11:1     I1       ' 1       0.1      113i
10~~~~~~~1.
0.0     21.7     21.7     21.1    108.1         0.0     23.6      24.9     26.2     27.1     29.2    131.6
3i         iS                                                *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6. 071- A:                                     208  1
7  7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~19.1     .&I                                                                  i
itt  -~~~~~~       1.      65.3   8653  .43           4264      1lOl0    913.2    WA   1034.    1066.    %21
lOatorla                      8     ii     18      18~~ ~~~ ~           ~ ~       ~~~~ 1to  a1  8:8    ii1    33:8  33:8    W 1   8:2      9.3      a:         : i             il -    IS?:
S~~~~i~~~~- tal                                                       0.0     69.3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~66.0  66.0    339.  0.0  80.8     83.9      87.2     86-.3    89.8   42.0
U.s                                                                      11.0      ii       118                           flu      110       1L~~4  I  :  14.5  1.        .
115.9    53.6      57.6     57.6    403.9       118.4     62.4      65.9     69.5     73.3     77.4    466.9
0. ~ ~~1IZ1  (1)           -   -   -   .                     - ~~~~~~~~~~~  3~~~  31:1  A:t  1J:i~~~~~)       .I        J    4:   4                 4:   *j  41 21:11n
-   4j       4:~~~~~~    j:I    211:3      '.8~~~~~~    J    4:        54 4  .     j       .     2
so*-foul                                                                                          31.1      89.5     89.4     61.5   453.1         31.6    97.1    102.4    180.0    113.8    05.2    539.
Tota  -NU          Om                                                                                    665.5   3880.2  1876. 73 132.   9515.s          -no.3   -212.   2214.        23 10 4    - 245.   177251137.
U1. I; n           c
A. IL         IrrlgaUlm  06N 02                            1      2       1S                             :       l?~               12      112          22      p:         11      21       21       21       11
*. u?w%WLi.- Imacucet 0)                           .                                                    U:2  ¶It  9:1  4:1  H11                         2:8  111:  12k1  '1   1~21  91:1  681:1
iTai     r  8 C am                                                                                         0.0    LUt.?   lI.?    11.?   558.              0.0    12.1    127.8   134.8   142.2    150.8   675.9
I"                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~665.5   1991.9  1988.4  1444.1  14074.1  71.3  2244.8   2342.1  2445.2  2548.0  1922.1  1223.
(1) P~ojeotaiblnlsiratan M5% anve2in        Bcostsdcosmsof opa*mdodwi frt00 w (3) Rer                                                                865umant% oftrecuautosts.



=31      C  ZO             MaCOSl
kilt  93,96 94/99 95/6  Os's98M W99  Moa    19-9    1993/94 199/9  1995/9  1996-9  1998/9   Tota   1939494/919591969  197/069    Woa
ad~~~~~~ Deft                                              A_Wt   m    a1stmCd 
511                       .1  J  U~~~O| U   Ib'U  tall  311 t!fi= _21U1:    1?al  2   211111
20t.9  X28.9   49.1   49.1    0.0   m.0      2        .1   96.1   59.2   62.4    0.0   27
sw  4 Jl j    j *  4    1 JI 3111*1114 01    J 31111411
C.                                      72.1  7n0.9  1029.6    6.1   65.3    5.2                                                  4 .1  145.0 1.4  16.0  170.5  99.0  016.0
c.  31   31 6:2 gI d3   1°    0I: I5 u_:1  11:7 6                         11       :1    1      8 :8 III     4 19 21       127   2:1  uI1
0.0   17.6   17.6   38.6   28.6  199.9       0.0   19.1   20.1   4.5   49.1   51.3   06.6
§ B B   |   4 4 3 1 B A X   8 t 2 1 ;1 11 2111 _I JS t  t1  00  lm1 S S
L f                                                                                1 US.7 n1.1  10. 4.3  1651.7  139.7 MI 82.0   15.   92.8  90.4   7.   20.9  Im.7  369.9
L  m   6t                   fl   29   29  i29        2g8        8:8   46 2   246 2   63~~~~~~~~~9.   S: 9 .9S al   18  8.-8   Hi    M 5 .1 9     9:   W; St5
f    l                                                                              0.0   69.3   69.3   95.7   95.7  425.7        0.0   80.8   83.9  12.4   125.2   3.1    6.4
1t   '  J j J J J: 4 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1201    2fiJ M.2  IAD -1                                                                                         MJ W  h  1 
t11.2   64.2  199.9  100.9  110.9  615.2    190.7   S9.6  115.4  I2.6  228.5  135.6  75.6
II      1:61   S3   1 .      31:   2"}       Itl:   3: 4         41    4{  e1    4:  .1
31.9   00.3  104.1  159.   15    45.         32.8    .5   119.0   12.9  2Q3.5  15.6  M90.5
Total 3U3l3     Stam                                                                    67.9  1695.1  25.2 -3356.9  240.6 1366    -22.7  192.1  256.4  431.6 4711.1 3-0.ei0 193a
n. inc_s a 
*. I3ub.-1  sn6t                         2-    -    -    -    -    -                 8 U      4   ' :3  1S5-1   111  161             8:1 8        91.  '1:t  1   z1:1   2 :f   '.I
td ea_           a                                                                        Q0.0   94.8   9.8  123.6  .173.6  711.3      0.0  182.8  1084   209.4  220.9  233.1   84.6
~ owns""- s"m   m=   aom                woo"= Moin"81   so"=  "mUm mssf soa  me""
101*1                                                                                 670.9 1789.9  225.0  35O3.5  2596.1 34395.9    ?22.7   2428.9  27014.9046.0  4532.0  3460 176S5
1/          amlacl.fr. of am   ud M n4i scad by 100. b                   1 ad ts am   aaahdby IO,0
at 5% of kywhow cam   (2) Esdoead cow of pwad &wb flh3000bmL (3) Ro                           m    Oiau  a S% te 



MM         odt W                          ow~~~~~~k costs                                   L~   gam
alit 93/*9494/9  959  97/9  98/99 IoUta       19-99    I19/94 1994196 196-9  1997/989199/9   tot          199314 1994/95 199596 1996/9? 19979199/9          otal'*
cmi
L    Nap                 hdx~3i~t        0    is   15   15    0   60            672        0.0   10.1   10.1   10.1    0.0   40.3            0.0   10.9   115   12.    12.8    0.0   42.4
0.0   86.1  219.3  219.3  1332   87I.             0.0  102.3  267.2  281.6  296.   18.3 1135.2
mowie          0   0151515is60                         352        8.0    0.0    5.3    5.1       5.3  21.1          0.0    0.0    6.0    6.4    6.7        7.)   26.2
ar_Dc_~~~~~~~~~~1 .w^    dd
9.  ter soil                                                            ~ ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~0.0    0.0  211.0  211.0  211.0  844.1  0.0    0.0  245.2  252.8  260.1  268.1  1037.
=S                                                            4~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~.0    0.0   23.1   26.4   26.4   99.0  0.0    0.0   28.0   29.1   34.5   35.9  327.
her  0 _U: WTim                                                                           
1                           lt tA$t                         u  CBdS             .~~~~~Su 
k.                                                    :12i0                                    Si  '1 03.  _
IL                                                                                                  . -3ot6               25. 3  2U.5 o  15.1        2.7   76.0   28.4   30.3    2.2  02.   12.4
1.   j    a           s  Eg                     8         1 5   16     1 0             2100o        0.0    0.0    31.    31.5   t31.5  126.          2:8    2:2    lt5   If:I   1:10        '     15:22
3. ftOjOOt bb1fl.- ISSUIOS i (3 h--                               0.0 0    .20 1.6         .     1    . _._
.ot      ~s60.0    0.0                                                                                         33.1   33s.1   33.1   1.3           0.0  l02.0   3S7.8   39.9   42.1   44.4   164.2
C.l                              4ne                       ts    ls    ts352                       e.3 e36.3    50.   56.0 63 .  2338.8               5.2  156.7  6 Q  6.    69.8     8.6    .1  21.2
&L   cmas  mr-iptshlef W        esginOhd   ma sce             s1     is  Isd kal  2at       aad100 00 0.000.                15    15 UO                               l          1   1:         f 1:
(. hoject       .  oh tI o               um         St.  (2            oss . f .         ,za d      0.d     0       16  1ltps-7 s.3 tlia          at 5- o    8e      ts.
-72                                                                                            S     U8 3   2e         1 56    3  178 6 %.    463.  2638.  85. 8 .    662 I9     6 s9    i 2 1 20.    69   2912.
oftan and &W= md~_ __b 100 ba-mdlWoma   deb  0(
1  ~ ~ ~ a                                                                                e.e    e.o kvu.1 Cos.s   26. Fid.0 cow o.e apa.e fting fA.5 35. 1m 32w.5 t %o



Ont1t,                      vlIt Cost                       DM  Costs                                 Total$ IneIu      a
eIMt  93t94 94/95 95t96 96-98 98699 Total    1993-99   1993/9  1994/95 1995/96 196-96 1998/9   Ta    1993/9 _ _ _4/95 1995/61996/199719  1996 /99 fotl
I. amC0uSs
L Ba|~~ah1d            -          Eve            is    15    30    30         0    120         672       10.1   10.1   20.2   20.2 e .0   60.6            10.4   10.9   23.1   24.3   25.7    0.0   94.3
U 115               3      30   l          M 120  464P0.          70.    70.   'H.    ~dl    5.1          00 7. :0 1!?    7.                    U
s  nv                    0     15    is    30    30   120            4213        0.0   63.2   63.2   1.4         .4 s.6           0.0   1.4
W6.1   219.3  305.4   436.6  266.3 ;154.3        97.2  253.5  374.9  563.2  593.6  374.6  2257.0
C.                               R a  wsr         0     IS    IS    30    30   120             352        0.0    5.3    5.3   10.6   10.6   42.2            0.0    5.7    6.0   12.7   13.4   14.2   52.1
Na %!I                                  15      S     30      0    101                0.        437      3.     8.47. 39.                  00     41      4.6   M10.      810. 166 418
J   an                                    1 815               3  30         120         ' 744   O.  111.7  111.7   22.32.    636                     .   123.   132.6  235 220 3?10.
.-                                            15    15    30    30   120            371         0.0 8 5S.76   55.6   1112            44.6         0.0   61.1   63.0  130.0   14.   18.   526.2
t   1                                                                                                o0.0  211.0  211.0  422.1  42.1    6.3             0.0  237.8  245.2  505.6  521.3  537.5 2347.5
0  7      8            1`5   60         110        0.0   17.:7    6.61   16.5     11 6.5  66.        0.0    9.21:    13.1   21.    3.    II.  IN
E. DX  i c  r   SWplT                g 0     7     a            155    60O       220         0. e    5.    77.w68  367.0   363.   13.          0.0o°    17.? 720_   .    40.4   41.1 _4.,  163.6
0.0   23.1   26.4   O9.S   49.5  198.0           0.0   26.9   32.0   62.3   64.8   67.3  253.3
Wh                            200          1                                                                           2       -      9~~~~~~~:s S: 0.    4  00  .
r. IM                      eteirn               293   31 201   20    20121               '         61   11        &S        I   cI   3:             Z2: _S          i:      l :     i.6_
sb87.?  36.0   36.0   36.0   36.0 3267.           89.5   39.0   41.2   43.4   45.8   48.3  307.3
~~~~r4~~~1an  1>                                          0.5    0.5    1.0    1.0    0.0    4.0           0.5    0.5              1.2    A:3      0.0~~~~~~~~~~~J1  .1  -1 11:  2  :1    1,1 
!S^e$X  <l>  =e4. 3    11. 0e   15.3   til 1 .3   6°                                                                      4.    11.9    725      2.5 .                   1.6
G~~~P~~¶b                                                                                                        0:3                                .00.3:-7r  1   03 4:
0    '2      13.    i14t                                       2:
-3Z k @ t  -        -      - _  _   _         _         ^ 4    1£8 68    181 6   1 2     I    ii .44              2.1    3. 21     .     2.3   23.    15
St-Total                                                                                             9.2   25.2   30.2   48.8   39.2  201.6            9 4   27.4   34.6   58.9   62.2   52.7  245.1
total UIIl CmS                                                                                             193.1  630.0  634.5  1025.7  623.1  4232.1        206.5  601.3  156.9  121D.6 1326.S 1094.6  5256.6
It.   amm
a. mnba zrrflTsauc OSN <
NOOK IlKp  Il0  15           15    30    30   120           2100        0.0   33.5   31.5   63.0   63.0 528.0             0.0   34      °.   76 .0
S. Project Ihmls.- le rat 0D                     -      -      -      -             - -                  0.0    1.6    1.6    3.1    3.1   12.6                                                  -       =
Dbtot  BDCUBu  a                                                                                            0.0   33.1   33.1    66.1   66.1  264.6          0.0   35.9   37.8   79.68S4.2   68.6  326.5
foul                                                                                                   193.1  563.1  667.6  1091.9  889.8 497.3           206.5  637.2  79.7  1350.4  1411.0 1183.t 563.2
at U.izcastm ie ncbj     of tame and duties and scaledy IO                a xd tota cast am  scald  by 100O,0..                                           feoz     m
(1  iojecI dmimStradOn 013%ofihkwssUantCas     (2) EM Wdo ofoptauodw%uizatM  3000  Dw     (3) Recumarts.   t %   f  acwntats



vIilt Cost                       as Cst                                       ble b dQiSg V        3C
a1t  93/9   94195 96196  9698 9/9  Total             199-99    1993/941994/951995/961996-gg81998/99    Ttl 193/9  1994/95 1995/96 1996/9  1997/9  1998/    Tota
1. 11h  aWl
A.        am  mSp                   Mer            30 10         50      50 o         170         672         6.7     6.7    33.6    33.6      0.0  114.2        6.9 t .3    3a4    40.5    42.8           0.0  135.9
E t    s   E              o     E       lo    5@      Xe   {           5 427      57.     574. 28.    21           0.0        I         ,     1       359   137.    397.6   J        12
C.                                                                                                      57.4   146.2   375.9   730.9   443.8  2485.2        64.8  169.0  465.3  938.7  969.4   WA.3  3s.5
0. I                            wie              0     10      10     50     s0    170         352         0.0     3.5     3.5    11.6    1.6    ".8           0.0     3.8     4.0    21.2   22.4    23.6    I.1
SPX  aS  ^          E              |~~~~~~~~~ 13    {;'o   I5sel  Pe1 i170°     09!t                R.-I 2  ?4.9 1 2  11:   II. i    -           oe° I2 ': S' 111 F             5- rS "'.   "- 
P. Jrr.4,j                           S     ~     ~~ ~           ~~~~~~           ~~~ 10  94 170  370?  0.0    37.1    37.1                          :             42.3     8.4 
0.0   140.7   140     7034   703.4  2391.1          0.0  159.1   16 4. 8   878.4   W7   2959.7
*  X                    s      25    iS      &         2280        gg    I5Ig    1l50    55t   525t  lBt                8:8   12676   16319   665    385    406   i9~~~04:6    1:19    6:1     &.
Jt   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- ---
1                                                                          ----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.'0-  16 5    16.5    82.5  82.5   2ie.5   ~0.0   19-2  20.0 -103.8   207.9  112.2  363.1
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                                                                           1 .1 1.1 ' S g  .'. ..lt' 1   ) .                             I4   ,!,-1i  A f
0  100    100    371    3735   3135         30                1.0    11.3      1. 3                                 1    12:8~~~~~~~3.  3.:   14.1 43
SiPtal   I    1                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~94.6    33.0   64.6    64.6   64.6  386.2  96.5    35J8   73.9    7S.O    82.3   86.8   43
C.  g   r       f          Eit            -              -      -      -                   -         2 9      °-3     8-3          5 2tO| t              * 0 : 7t96   218 25              2  -_  1    i
t  2                                                                                             49 te   1° 6    °3 29 ri  3 110                     e49° 12         D-      43         1      *S
STotal                                                                                                   t8. 1 3   3.  _U6    6S6   M.9                       B2    18.8   36.3    98.5  103.9   88.1  353. 8
Total IrSI   mtmiS                                                                                             1           3                  1377.7  60336        176.3   413.0  802.4  2130.6 2227.0  13.0  7592.4
IL-I c0
11. btigal Irriptig-3lONl <2          Ir            0     10     t0     so    S0    170          2100        0       21.0    21.0   105.0  105.0   357.:          8.0    22:1    24 2           13 14     1:1
S. hroject Win.-  uNCent <3>                                                                                 0.0   ~~~    1.0  ! °    5.2     5.2   17.            .       .          
Total  NMgI   COW                                                                                                0.0    22.0    22.0   110.2   110.2   374.8         0._    23.9    25.2   133.0   140.3  348.1  470.5
Z.=..tsl ~.%t.= muc4s. *=RnS uww               mmn., n.*=. Rn.., cnn.X. Cnn,,. .,n. n=              3
Total                                                                                                       166.7  386.0  688.6  1924.6  148.9  6378.5          176.3   436.9  82t.6  2263.6  2367.4  1991.0  8062.9
,; Uria "Ass we W40Wg,w of taxes a          ,ix)   =.~ a ax) sca    by UM0  bas  MAd Wea COsW  aM  scaed by~ 100000.M.OOw lo   t5     f mv     a
(1) Piojecta dinlistra n ats 5   of invsbumnleost. (2) F                      s ofopeuif               first 3      boom  (3) Recaueadna t51 ofr a cos.
II1



__ _ t__i_it Cost                         gass CSats           .i, U                       "
Olt   3/9 9 4     9/99    t l193-            1993/9  14-99  1998/99  Ttl        194 1994/95 1991/95 t9969   199  1g/"             ta
linlr         s0    so      0   250         672      33.6   33.6    0.0  16.0         34.5    36.4    38.4     0.5    42.6      0.0   192.7
00.0 210.
287.1  730.9  443.8 3664.7       324.1   85.0    9.6   938.7   989.4   624.3  4612.1
._                            3jlu       S        §0 50    50   250       352       0.0   17.6   17.6   8.0          0.0    21.0    22.1    23.4    24.6    26.0   11.1
D.~~~~~                   ~~~    U lu FI E           50i00i 3I I{I 'Ii    U3 8U li                                                      Ii32 1 ii 3 
0.0  M03.4  703.4 3517.2         .0   792.8   817.4   842.7   868.9   895.8  42U1.6
t1                                    8:8 `2 5 o5         H5           8       6 8 31 61 36   6:1      It       ff1 j:8
F.  ett                                                                           o0.0   82.5   82.5  412.5        0.0    96.1    99.9   103.8   1.7.9   112.2   520.
9Hoth1 ~   ~        I                                                    122.5   66.9   66.9  457.0       125.1    72.5    76.5    80.7    85.2    89.8   529.9
I    -      -      -                   11 6     2      1                                                 o3
9se-ttal                                                                         22.2   81.7   65.7  414.9        22.8    886     93.5    98.6   104.1    88S.2   496.8
Toitai urJ1'S   y                                                                     465.4 1716.7  1380.0 87t2.4      506.5  1962.5  2038.5  2128.5  2222.8  1836.4 106S5.2
11. IEtllEUlt CW
a. 1tnl Icriqatlos 081<)         _O    50    50   250                     2100       0.0  105.0  105.0  525.0         8:2   115:?     1      9:.   136.7   14:3   637-
. Project Main.-  oct     <3>                 -     -      -     -          -        0.0    5.2    5.2   26.2       -                                                21.3 .
Total NCUflIe  aT8                                   ~~0.0  110.2 i110llo.2  551.2                                      0.0   119.5   126.1 ~~ 133.0   14U0.3   148.1   6670 
Ttal                                                                               465.4  1827.0 1490.3 9263.6      506.5  2192.0  2164.6  2261.5  2363.1  198.S  1t352.2
(1) Fijec oNDja                   w          o.(        g       cs          an        g    t 300   w. (3)   c5t



Oltt Coe- l--                        C@t                  .
aIt  9319    199516691 9S195 9519ttal                  19)9   19         199491661196919791909                       1q993196 lUSBS  1_911  1_69  1_79  __919    1081
1.           GM
10 8.1   10.1     38 .3 29     .6 9   .8   2   i      .4 13 .0 9 9     . 0.1    2     0.9 1     .3     44.4
ac~~~ 41 1t  I I~I1Ii  LI  11 'E'I Ii I |1 XlS                                                                                                      d                     D    II
RVp                                                                              U2.1  :35E91 611. S:2 tS  m                                                         .5      B1  U1               a
*z8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   16.8:                                            25    29.    69.3   69.    12.6  24 .692 8                 87.                90. 7.    319.8
It  ~          ~ d                                                                             o. a. a        fjI:    l  29.  29.a   Z9.  "5    e.o   9.                   j. n.s   n          J 43514.
D.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t                                                                               1.9   4                  2  4    l{ -  t     1:1      21 t  {in1      41      |!    21.!I 
t  t  w l                                                                                          4.i   t.i    s.i12i.  1k5.  XSX NA-                  4 9.      9.4-4.         2.      -4 19-           - 
C.                                                                                                 -21  25e.e   1    I.9 9-1-6 9 5.1 1  469 . 6 32U      105.6    19.2- .0    St.i    S. 2 30.36   3619.
r   %tS                                                        H 9 B to ]1       j: Hi :i -i 11 1i j1 IJ '.  1_j 2; AB- 1F i 11 1
S~*-1ota1                                                                                            14.6   34.4   60.6  12.S  121.8   8,.9 U48           15.2    37.3    69.3    146.9    14A    15.4   58.6
totalll 5        8 1hU                                                                                    311.3  t22.3  12t2.2 2551.6 2547.8 134I.5 9215 3O0.8   015.8  1505.4  314.5  32.65.5  2384.6  146.
11. 1u1_ IS
LIa.a1 1d 155gt1 Q               x             S  I  I  I z9  J2S,108 2fl8    8 8S   WiS :1U68                                          : Sl S M               8:8 1  fi4i  66?  1I0 S9:5  18: 41590
B. ,zSLia.- gscunut *-                                                                          - -:2 -t a.: "7 X? 7 e.5 e.s J::4 u19                                               u 11, 9: 73:5 ' :16
total 16                                                                                                   1 0.0   36. 4 3 6.4 I  3. 4  137.4  135.2  483        0.0 39. 5    41.1 169  . 8 1     75. 0 1 8t. 6   693.6
#.f*   *lf              SS     fh...... S.   ..s...................... ,, sas  ..ssf  snss  _smf  _  __.    ........................................___
J"ta                                                                                                     311NM  -5--i.3 1587 308.6 2615.  263.3  193.? 15s    330.    855.3  1547.1  3310.3  3440.6  296   U6.3 25.
'c.,,311;,3.,,,58., 1G308.6 2695.1 2W63 -1  M        330ss... . ...            .. ..s.. . .3 3W .s 2%s .3 .as
aI U,doaw           chswofttaxdas   am             dxcldbylOCOibsandao s ascaby 1OOOO 
(I) Pjctlauin at S                            _thvestmum   (2)cotdecomofupasoaddingsfit3000boa (3) Ret                                        S         *of  ,r    t



GROIID AE2N POlI                                             cots X
_ _U__ _                       unit Cost     _                          cs w Ctot
hlit  93)  94)1            96/ Wm        18)992 tota      1S93-99    I999  1999  19989  196 _        979  19/   tlt   1993)94 199/9198961996/9'Win 19 98m9   voa
1. imr amsm
i.       am out" De              Ihrter          10    10    35    35    30          0    120        672        6.1    6.1   21.5   23.5   20.2    0.0   80            6.9    1.3   26.9   28.4   25.1    0.0   95.1
E                        Ip   l t   ii 3              i  iJ   l°t tI PO                 58            ¶1  It51 4It  iI II   603  U2 l4 IS                                            i   69 42
17.4  146.2  289.7  511.7  483.0  266.3  1754          64.s  169.0  357.6  657.1  652.8 37 .6  22t5.9
c.                               MOU              0    10    18    35    35    30   120               352        0.0    3.5    3.5   12.3   12.3   10.6   42            0.0    4.2    4.4   16.4   11.3   15.6   67.8
D . 2 t   ES                                                            2B5         80    29l   2X95        1     6       {t    |          %l   iSou   3|2.4°  }}li.t  t@9    i1   1| I-   -11-- a
0.0  140.7  140.1  492.4  492.4  42.1  1688            0.0  15#.6  163.5  589.9  608.2  537.5  2857.6
stb-t                                                                                                       o0.0   16.5   16.5   59.4   56.1   49.5  198           0.0   19.2   20.0   14.8   13.4   61.1  254.?
w                      g~~~~t   I  al207 2                        e ~   2  11   6P    i                       j            II I° 8iI '8-IP                                I   1g    .   5:j Uj6 °j:  3:i ;p il :
141J2s 25S   25i125P 3: X                                          I -I                       og _ _i .13 *0   a°*
250                        30         -- ---- : o'   :                       atn           1u       3O
84      33.0   37.5   31.5   37.5    I.5  26?         86.4   35.8   42.9   45.2    4.?   50.4  308.4
~~~~¶~~~~~ios  I                                                              ?:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a~~~~~~~~:I V.4~ 
r                                            .         0:!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o    U.  U  I                    4.4     18      2.1    2.      2.:    2: 
c~~ ~                   ~~~ ?r ?: -                                                                                                                                  0. -- -4 §,  g  !13 i {       6 1       1
Si*-Total                                                                                                    .8    1 7.3   25.6   56.8   55.1   39.33  201         1.6   18.8   29.2   686    70.1   52.8  27.1
otw I         SMT Cam                                                                                            156.3  364.0  537.0  1193.7  1156.5  825.2  4232    165.8  412.8  644.5  140.3   1495         0.1  5296.7
11.          Om
L. In     roJe gaton. <rec (D _e                  0     10    10    35    35    30   120            2100        0.0   21.0   21.0   73.5    3.5    63.0   M            8:8    9:!                            1 2t-0    8-    91   3t .II:
D. Prelect Able.- Remmt *D-                                                                                    0.0    1.0    1.0    3.1    3.7    3.1   12             *       *      2
-~~~F                                             - -            - - - - __- - - _- - -      __
total EaU r C=                                                                                                                      J  "-We   271. 2    66.1  264         o.o   23.9   25.2   93.1    o8.2   8a88   329.3
Total                                                                                                         156.3  386.0  559.1  1270.8  1233.1  891.4  449        165.8  436.   W6.?  1573.4  1593.4 1181.0  5626.0
511 .......GWst2|tt=sstwtUss s    wsO% .t- . ... .......  ............   ... . ...... . ........ . ........                      -mssw--wtaxustY5ews:/s"=sEwlsXr2Rlhst$s* 1S8aOsWni. .-#ssss ....Sil
a( unlitcowl are inchsjve Of taze  ant dtie md scaled by 30001 busand tota cst COW   Mscal   bY 1000,000.dw w ma 5     fe                                                       mcm
(1)    to ,ject S n tratn at 5%  of uwuunacosts. (2) Estg &gj   caots of opetion dd r                       fiist 300 ho      (3) R urtM
I!



Ontl                    unit Cost                 DMsS Costs                           Totals lnclut4ixotiqnc1es
unIt  93194 94-97 97(98 98199 Total   - 1993-99   199394 1994-9 I"19998 1999"  Total  19931941994(95 1995/96 1996197 197t98 1998/99_Ttl
t. i1a    cosr
R. S     aw nd es1s             Kober           20    20    20       0   100         672       13.4   13.4   13.4    0.0   67.2        13.8   14.6   15.4   16.2   17.1    0.0   77.1
I.c  C                      NOW            20    20    20       0   100         5742     114.8   148   1148    9.0  57.2    129.6  136.4  143.6  151.1  159.0    0.0  719.7
11W  r      0    20    20    20   100          4664       ~~~~ ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~0.0  33.3  3:   93'1.84  .   101   106.1  112.5  1187 )~.    6 
- Iii             0    20    20       0   100         4213       0.    84.3   84.32843   421.3            0.0   105   106.0  111.8  118.0 i13z4.5  560.7151  :
c.  T taa                                                                                 114.8  292.4  292.4  177.5 1461.9    129.6  338.0  356.2  375.5  395.8  249.7  184.8
C- si  iO D                      Ser             0    20    20    20   100           352        0.0    7.0    7.0    7.0   35.2         0.0    8.4    8.9    9.3    9.9   10.4   46.9
D. I I0t20 0                                                            10         2915       0.0   5.        .      0      94        00     6.       61     6. 
. Saet            D -elr                    8    20    20    20e8  100         374077     80.0e  1748.19  1 .9 1  49  3740.37      0.0  171.5  176.28  182.3  188.0   1 3. §1
Mr20 b                             20     2     10II. 7.                                J   11 4. 3.7         0.0   81~     84.    8.6   89.3   92.!4
S.                                                                                           0.0  281.4  281.4  281.4  1406.9        0.0  317.1  327.0  337.1  347.5  358.3  1687.0
c g1Catr Sppy0                                  1      0     1                           0.     1105.                            0.      31     1.     146     1.        .2   72
E.a?Te'r1a%M                                0    10    10    10    58            oo        0.08   22.0   11:    118   115'0.       0.0   25.31   2661    26.9   2718   26.6  1734
SOtttal                                                                                     °-°0.    33.0   33.0   33.0  165.0      0.0   38.5   40.0   41.5   43.2   U.9  208.0
~~d~iSSr    ~    ~     $~1t         ii     i     1      i      2        1200S    112:2   14:2             1211:    1:                              72      8 a          1~i~
1 20        0      0     1        6600       6.6    0.0   00          0                      0.0    TO    0.o   9.0           o     .7 I
I~~~~r  1   0      0     0 ~~~~~~ 1     38500      38.5    0.0             U.       .      3.1      0 0 .0    0.0    0.0.
DectaIrofe 150   150   200 200  1000                 30        4.5    4. 5    6.0            30          6       049 .9       0.0 54    .6     ! 
suT-ota8 866.2   34.5   36.0   36.0  261.7                                                                                         88.0   37.4   39.5   41.6   45.8   48.3  300.6
G. PT   Wors                                                                                 57   14.    116        29    71:        0.7    0.7    0.8    0.8    0.9        0 .0    3.9
r   |  -  5|7  14 6   6  l}| t4|   11 5l D0.  17.6  18: .6                                    86
Necban1I1ks~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ~~~0 0    0                                     04    4                   .0              4 6~ 04       0     ~       I
Irr. gauor                                                                                                  2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 15.3 iI II7  s  16.    11.    17.9    1.
toxnsllon o$ vuas                                                           1.7    1.8            11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: 3  4 1.  2.0    2.1    2.3    24  1.
Sui-Total                                                                                  10.7   33.1   33.2   26.7  169.9        11.0   35.9   31.8   39.9   42.2   35.9  202.8
total 1IIVFSThENT CtSTS                                                                          225.2  694.8  696.4  561.7  3567.8    242.4  789.8  824.7  861.2  901.5  747.6  4367.2
II. IErW 07s
11. InJI It,vatloft aN <2>    olb"Y              0    20    20    20   100          2100        0.0   42.0   42.0   U.0  210.0          0     45.5   48.0   50.7   53 2       6. 258 1 
8. Project Admin.- Lrent <3>                    -     -      -      -      -          -         0.0    2.1    2.1    2.1   10.5        0.0    2.3    2.4    2.5    2.
Total 5~.jBFruRR   CsS                                                                            0.0   44.1   44.1   44.1  220.5         0.0   47.8   50.4   53.2   56.1   59.2  266.8
Total                                                                                         225.2  738.9  740.5  605.8 3788.3       42.4  837.6  875.1  914.4  957.6  806.8  4634.0
..........==5====                                                 ......======2===s======   ===    5   = ==> ===    ===
pi Unit mmasre clsive of taes n duties a  sal  by 1000; bae an total costs are scaled by 1000000at5%of                                                  osts.
(1) Project dadministration at 5% of invesunat coats. (2) Esjmgz4 costs of opeation duzing furs 3000 hoturs. (3) Recurrent adiisrtwia  %  frcPrntcss



t  9lfff 9tf95  (95t   969    /98  98p9  ota1             199Ttl 9    199394 1994)95 19496 19M97 199     19    ls            19T3ot   1994(9     6mm19? 1 /  1969   tam
1.      UUk  31
A.     aid NS190             oUe              15    15    25    25    20         0    100         672       10.1   10.1   16.8   16.8   13.4    0.0   67           10.4   10.9   19.2   20.3   17.1    0.0   7.9
a.~                  - c                                          g   g                                     'm:j  ~   'lq 5I:i 111 _1: lIi '     III I-63                                               j9:j  8t
86.1  219.3  276.1  385.5  336.8  I17.5  1461          97.2  253.5  339.0  469.3  454.9  2490.  186
C.                                                0   _ e  0    15    15    25    25    20   100     352        0.0    5.3    5.3    8.8    8.8    7.0   35            8.0    6.3    6.6   it-?   12.3   10.4   47.3
I 11   g   25                                                      .7  A.,4~  it.-I                      ~       11a4             .  0. 14i~    i
00   211.0  211.0  351.7  351.7  281.4  106            0.0  237.8  245.2  421.4  43.4  358.3  169.2
1.  cS JHWlt       2      H3 i   Is a             l8         8:8  ; : }J     : 18:6     J: l W            A IN     8:8   At9: i&    I32           1:1   28:   13 t:
8.0   23.1   26.4   39.6   4Z.9   33.0  165           0.0   26.9   32.0   49.8   56%.    44.9  289.7
F.    f t                                                                                  _         __       t-j2    _ 3o  _i 1:8                  U :-    1:j    i:l    8.    ij   1811: 
H         ~~                        I              ~          ~    j~.i  jfj  I                                I    I"
65.6   34.5   34.5   34.5   36.0   36.0  261           83.3   31.4   39.5   41.6   45.8   48.3  300.0
eC.          S4it 4'                                                                                                0       0.,     ..              0.0           05         5                      1
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                                                                               4. 1. <
Sd3-total                                                                                                   9.1   25.2   28.-5   40.0   39.5   26.   16 9  9.3    2.3   32.6   49.3    0.3   35.9  M29.
total 133 DII     yl                                                                                             190.9  528.4  599.3  857.7  629.1  56t.1  3567         20t.3  600.2  114.1  1063.4 l031.0   7tt.6  440.
11.   I I I       mm
a. lla  Ir   atls ON           _n                0     15    15    25    25    20   100            2100        0.0   31.5    *5        52.5   2.5 u4.0   210          8.    3. 1:#.         6:3. 63:1       61:1   2f: 1
I. Poject Ude.-   Mt   <Pe                       -      -      -     -      -        -      -         -         0.0    1.6    1.6    2.6    2.6        2.1   10         '                                           -
total E PW  031,                                                                                                   0.0 ,  33.1  .331    55.1   56.1   44.1               o 0    35.9   37.8   66.5   70.2   59.2  269.6
total                                                                                                         190.9  561.5  632.3  912.9  004.2   605.8  3789    20.3  636.0  151.9  1129.9  1141.2  866.8 40.1
.... . ....... . .  .... . ....                                ...l.S.t..fltft.Sl. .......lC.tl----*
Unit cos ae inhwivtaxeso am  duties  d saed by 1000 b. ad      Uoss ae sced by 1000.000.
(1) Pluject amiistration atS% of wesmnt coas.L (2) Esmaed costs of operadndon                          g firt 30001 bws (3) Remrent                  sati t5% of re             ft osts



hit  93/94 NM/9  95/96 96-9  total   1I9-9    1993/94 1994/95 1995/96 1996-9   Tota  1993/  193/96 199596 1996/97M1997/  19M/9   Tot
A. - -ill$N
S18,IO&       w   s1f                                                                     0.0   MO5.   495.0    0.0  90.0       0.0  557.   580.4    0.0    0.0    0.0 113.8
1o:t=          la   to5  #1     S        I 2h    l3e-    1        :1_    112:   11   13     1:1 1U:i   11:       :1  NJ   IB:I  II:i 1:1
C.                                                                                        225.6  339.6  362.4  362.4 2014.8   231.8  368.1  414.5  437.2  461.3  486.7 239.6
272.8    0.0    0.0    0.0  27.8   277.0    0.0       - 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  277.0
O ram hrts   ~         ~              -                  -8: 0 kql:o  8: 8  1:1 I0:1  8:1 EJh  8:1  1:8  1:8  1:1 UU:?
I:                       (1>                 -     -      -     -                    -     :1 1:8  2°88    1:8       1 o: e1    3J:1  Mgg    211 _ :8    1:8    1:8 8 
s - ~   ~      ~     ~     ~                       -. -s.   ss. 24.e  sse.                                         e.e  b61.   sa.        e.o    e.e oj. e 2    4.
AM.                                                                                    24.9 E61. SbX  22    |   28t   88  s |   s206.7   42.9   I8.1  3289  25o 6   224.21 4.0   21.9   23.1   24.3  368.0
e m                                                                                   o      46.63.  110.   380.5 7746.5 T42s   7  5320.-2 1318.34.1   4   04.5  -4-.4  51.0 835.7
St._ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~             r       urm. s  e.o s e.o uee   m.    rs 2      rn.0     ee u .e uo.os 'iu e.    ue    n
Total                                                                                     823.3 4641.3 1140.3   380.5   46S .   82.7  5.2 1318.3    9.1  48.4  511.0 SI      35.?
com__--_-
miusvsfas albhamu5maldb                                     UiUSaIuS msh1 0QlOIOO
O      iE~BmwmR b "mi3.a    brmvm
: t~~~~~~~~~~E



1_  t Cost                      am Cob                                          l 
bit ___ _ 199/19616 -96 19    Total    1993-                    19939   194/9  I96A  19-98 MM                  VA    199/9  19495 96 I 199/97 19/98 -99                Mt
1. I3Du MM
8SX1$g1ets IU 8ti184 3 263g'I    2|8 t9:  2500 8 8 _ i:S° 8 2230 gU  '1:8 34°e i~1 ~i:~ ¶8:1 ¶1:~ '2: 8 1i8 go: I 623  4: 3 ---- 8S   1  43 i                  t:  S
S;                                                                                               0.0   238.0   255.0   391.0   374.0  169.0         0.0   25S.0   291.6      041.8   497.7   502.2  2021.3
i i X g i E ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                   11 ]1 . i311    IT,                                         I B gii 
C.  vto bl els                                                                                 814.0   814.0   914.0   814.0   814.0  4884.0    836.4   82.4   930.9   902.1  l036.1  1093.1   761.1
6 1   |       20       !      88      8      $     0         6g4588   t2.48      j 8     e 88    § i8     1 g   |  8    %t          18      8-e     1*8     | so8I  0  g     8'   :
I$r8            882                                                8:8     8:8      .8                                                     :8
a0            O2                                  .0e    8 : :          u     1.8    u :                             0 5 5e                     II
-E e   -  -  -.               . 2                                 §1-t   Ii i-                   jjj  a4    nl  ni--                          1i ij t  ii
D.                                                                                            1427.8 55.0   UQ.0   17e.0   110.0  1922.8   1454.6    59.6   A2.8   132.7  1340.    317.9  2060.4
0    0    0                   I~          0l        0                       I  IIIIa                                   i   II   S
E-~ 2       31x 350    2500   500    900    460  24i65                                   1603    56.0       0.0     0}.1 542. 7 
Eel  iooN       .0   20                           5                                       14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s0
$00    0m    40   2450           to       :0.              5      i0                            I               --: ----      6      I
342.6   301.0   270.0   270.0   266.5  1720.1    352.0   326.3   308.8   325.8   343.?   357.9  2014.4
SdTotob                                                                                        129.2    70.4    72.4    79.2   718.2   SO.8    132.8    76.3    82.9    96.6   100.9   105.    593.5
TAI         GESI cam                                                                                 2713.6  1478.4  1521.4  1664.2  1U2.  0684.7   2775.?  1602.6  170.0  208.0  2118.4  2206.0 12450.7
n s...  e.. tmess..   . nt. "sems.  onesgf e5.in.  eeSft   hUaf no cm"  an0 2SSine m     useSs
Total                                                                                             2713.6  1478.4  1521.4  164    14.7 1664.?  V2776.7  1602.6  1740.0  2008.0  211.   2206.0 1245.?
a/ Unit cons are luuivo of taxis m du nd a                     0dby 10,buseautalcolsmealedby 1000.000.



_, bDtt      c          Slt Costs e                                                        _
hllt 9S/9494-9696   96/99l otal    1993-9        1993194  1994/95 1995696 1996-98 199i99       ota    1t4/5 1994/99 1999/96 196/9? 19978  196/99   WtAl
1.       n   0M
SiF.  It 1                                                                       528.0  1144.0  1144.0  1144.0  1144.0  6348.0        96.2  119?.?  1234.9  1273.2  1312.6  1353.3  6907.9
U  II                             13~~~~~~~~~~~1~   100.31 
log                                                                      33    1 0    s  58  _e8 3: 1 0 3   10   3L                   3         l l       8
C. VSo d                                                                         200.6   401.3   401.3   401.3   401.3  2207.0        206.2   435.0   48.9   484.2   510.8   938.9  2633.9
C. t&      l       6   02   0    12   60          08e         5:D |  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~     ~~100.3   1°0-3   10°3 l3 l   3 1 1  . °  '   J   °   7 
*1  jI*  I   jj   1111              .    1003   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  'i~~~1   hil.    11 1f I  Hi   I   Ill       jj      IUI       tj    3
* SO-  ta1                                                                       200.6   401.3   401.3   401.3   401.3  2207.0    206.2   435.0   458.9   484.2   510.3   538.9  2633.9
t t  <       Ss70    12D   22~~~~~~~ 2212 12 l g            o 44$      o.8        0 88.8 8868  108:06  18 528:8 8   4o      3062  11951:6  11995 :   lgx     1?00 1:  2 f   5' § 
C. Totll                                                                        U528.0  1144.0  1144.0  1144.0   616.0  5720.0        536.2  1197.7  1234.9  1273.2  1312.6   728.7  6283.3
~~  3¶0      jO  ~~~60  130        M        250.8   501.6   501.6   501:6   I&        279.8      257.7   543.:7   5?3:1    W15:Z   ¶3jVI~39.
1    W     1f MSPc1t. =                   36    61°2    t    12 6i  76°6  8360     50.2    100.3   100.3   100               558        51.5   17   14                 21          , 65 1    636.5
SiTotal                                                                          301.0   601.9   601.9   601.9   601.9  3310.6        309.2   652.5   688.4   726.2   766.2   808.3  3950.8
F. atenC
0    0   11  44000  220.0   332.0   132.~~~~0:0.0  0.0   404.       §323.    138.2   142.5      0.0     0.0      0.0 50.
F.   896mc, I F                                   o' 01      11 34400          22 .0   132. 132.0          0. o     .0   48. 8      2334   138.2   142.5       0.0      0.0     0.0 85041
SG. otal                                                                         440.0   264.0   264.0      0.0      0.0   968.0      446.8   276.4   285.0      0.0      0.0     0.0  1008.2
6- 308.0   385.0  0.0      0.0     0.0   693.0      316.5   417.3      0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0
ESIVlWD%. Iwet , ss3.       -    -    -    -    -             -        88.0    88.0    88 88     88.G     0.0   440.0       90.4    95.4   100.6   106.2   112.0       0.0   SD4.6
Si-Total                                                                         396.0   473.0    88W.0   --38.0    0~ o.0 ~1133.0  _4 6.9   5 --4 12.7   100.6   106.2   112.0   0.0  1238.5
Total I5is11t     COSTS                                                                2594.2  4429.5  4044.5  3780.5  3164.5 21793.6    2647.6  4701.1  4461.6  4347.0  4525.0  3968.1 24656.5
Total                                                                               2594.2  4429.5  4044.5  3780.5  3164.5 21793.0    2647.6  4707.1  4461.6  4347.0   425.0  3968.1 24456.5
Ui cow s aim             ftso es and    W amd wsa    by  0;base andbtom    comase scledby 1000,000.
(1) R. 1.0llim fan       mi  aamo at rdmal evelad                   O-S cu       fw reina auutaaA



-71-                                Aun4A
Page I
TINDNFSL&
ORQMNZW/&= DEVTPIONT PROJERC
C;;MMlanit Pawdciado9 in Groundwater DelopmentO
1.   This Annex describe procedures and criteria related to planning, design, implementation,
and management of groundwat irrigation facilities by the public sectodwith the participation of the
intendod beneficiaries. It assumes that Government intervendon in groundwater development
would continue to catalyze private sector initiatives. The project objectives to be taken into account
in the development process are to: (a) standardize and formalize the development process; (b)
undertake the development cycle following a logical and sequential process; and (c) ensure full
community pardcipation.
2.   Government financed groundwater irriation development was originally conceived as a
public sector operation with all capital funding and construction being the responsibility of
Government. he O&M of facilities remained with a government agency with beneficianes paying
a water charge for the irrigation service. The PAT organization (through P2AT subproject units)
was established within DOWRD to perform these tasks. Water users associations (WUA) were
originally established on the facilites to enhance water management. However, by the early 1980s,
it was recognized that well established WUAs were capable of taking over full management of
facilities, including responsibility for (and funding of) routine O&M Thus, a process was initiated
for 'privatizing! management of the facilities after construction by Government. The present
practie is for Govemnment to provide O&M support for facilities (mainly for fuel and pump
operators salay) for the first two years after a facility is commissioned. This support period has
recently been reduced to one year for ITTW facilides in East Java. However, it is intended that
WUAs should charge their members an irrigation service fee equivalent to at least the O&M costs of
facilites during the support period. This would enable WUAs to build up working capital to
support continued operations after the initial O&M support is withdrawn.
3.   Government sponsored groundwater development has gradually been transformed from a
public sector, supply-driven operation to a demand-driven program to create facilities for private
sector management through WUAs, albeit that all initial capital expenditures are financed by
government. In essence, when groundwater conditions are known to be favorable for irrigation
development, requests for public financed facilities are made by local government on behalf of the
farmers, and P2AT organizations in the provinces respond by installing facilities within the
limitations imposed by their budgets.
'Mev rels
4.   BlackMgund. Various planning criteria have been apPlied under past projects for selection
of groundwater development areas, selection of sites for individual facilities, and selection of the
type of facilities to be installed. In recent years, development has been restricted mainly to rainfed
areas of sawah and tegal lands, with the proviso that facilides could also be installed in the ta areas
of surfce water inigation systms only when it could be demonstrated that the surface water supply
was totally inadequate and insecure. However, a standardized method of planning groundwater
development for irrigion has yet to be devised and applied which would reflect the demand-driven
concept while ensurng that the most appropriate and cost effective facility is provided.
5.   To address this shortcoming, methodologies for identification of proposed development
areas and for detailed planning of such development need to be standardized. They should be
simple to appl and must be based on adequate water resource data, and on other information which
should be readily available at local government levels, or easily obtainable by rapid field checkng.



- 72 -                                Anex4
In particular, the development need should be clearly defined and beneficiary participation should
be, as far as possible, ensured. For new development areas where hydrogeological conditions are
inadequately known, the process of a combined exploration and pilot development would be applied
to confirm water resource information before proceeding to large scale development.
6.    The development process specifically addresses lessons learned from previous groundwater
operations. These include the need to strengthen involvenient of the farmers, community based
organizations, residents, local governments, and other agencies in all phases of the project cycle.
To give emphasis to this community based approach, and to link irrigation service more closely to
agricultural development, each subproject (individual wells and clusters of tubewells) would follow
a development process of about four years. The development cycle breaks down into four phases:
(a) the pre-preparation phase of 3-6 months; (b) the preparation phase of 9-12 months; (c) the
implementation phase of 9-12 months; and (d) the operation and maintenance support phase of two
years after a facility is commissioned. The development process is shown systematically on Chart
5.
PrearaionPhase
7.    difiatiWoll of Poteal     . The first task would be for the P2AT office to identify
potential groundwater development areas through a desk study of existing hydrogeological
information, maps showing the distribution of surface water schemes and all available soil
information. The study would define general areas in which: (a) physical resources (groundwater
and land) are available; and (b) there is an apparent need for groundwater irrigation (i.e., the area is
presently rainfed, or is located in the tail end of a surface water irrigation system where the water
supply is likely to be inadequate and insecure). The study may also indicate whether ITIW
facilities could be installed, or whether DTWs would be necessary. In East Java, known areas of
intensive private sector STW development would be screened out at this stage. The study would
define areas of potential development by desas (villages) to facilitate the community partcipation
activities.
3. _   Dissen-Anation of Information to Local GMSMM= and Communif. Once the desk study
indicates that an area is potentially viable, the socio-economic viability of the proposed development
would be tested. P2AT would liaise with local government (kabupaten, kecamatan, desa) to
establish that there is a demand for irrigation. The objective would be to ascertain likely conmnunity
response and participation. The desa authorities and P2AT staff would explain the proposed
development to potential beneficiaries (farmers likely to be within tubewell command areas). This
would include explaining that Govemment would met the capital costs of groundwater development
and provide initial O&M support for two years with the farmers willing to accept the responsibilities
and costs of long term management of the tubewell facility. Having established the social/financial
viability of a potential impact area, a tentative program by desa area would be developed.
PEgaradon Phase
9.    General Planning of Tubewell Clusters. Once the pre-preparation process has been
completed, and before proceeding to the detailed planning and design stage, a general program
definng tubewell clusters by desa areas would be developed. The program would indicate: (a) the
locations of areas proposed to be developed in each desa; (b) the wpe(s) and numbers of facilities to
be provided; and (c) the priorities under which the progam would be implemented. The program
would be developed in two steps:
(a)  Conrmation ofDesa Progrms A sketch map would be prepared for each desa, or
group of desas, showing: (i) locadons of tegal and sawah lands; (ii) disr4hution of
rainfed lands; (iii) commands of existing public groundwater facilides; (iv) locations of
areas proposed by local govemment for development; and (v) major population centers
and roads. Other information required include the hydrogeological characteristics of



- 73 -                               Annex 4
Page 3
existing public tubewells and a general description of the agricultural development
opportunities. Compilation of this infonnation together with a field check of the local
government's proposals would permit confirmation or modifichtion of a desa program
and definition of the type(s) of groundwater irrigation facility to be provided. For
developing a confirmed program, special attention should be given to: (i) security of
the surface water supply if wells are proposed in surface water irrigated areas; (ii)
presence or absence of private STW development in the proposed area; and (iii) the
possibility of using the irrigation tubewells for domestic water supply and/or
houseyard irrigation facilities.
(b)  I)event of lProvinalPogs: Once the desa programs are confirmed, they
would be assembled to form a number of subproject areas which together formn the
provincial program. It would then be necessary to decide the priority of developing
subproject areas, taking into account: (i) regional priorities for groundwater
development within the province; (ii) P2AT institutional capability to implement the
proposed work programs; (iii) budgetary considerations; (iv) contracting constraints;
and (v) and coordination with the provincial offices of Cipta Karya, if multipurpose
water facilities are envisaged. This program prioritization would involve discussions
with BAPPEDA and other provincial agencies. The resulting annual provincial work
program would then be subject to some modification during the detailed planning and
design process of the selected subproject areas.
10. Planning of Desa Tubewell Clusters. Although groups of desa programs may be aggregated
into subproject areas for provincial programming, the desa boundary is important in planning of the
command area boundaries of individual tubewell systems. Experience has shown that the
management problems of WUAs can be exacerbated if tubewell command area cross desa
boundaries. Therefore, a general design principle would be that any tubewell command area would
be contained within a single desa.
11.  The planning process for tubewell clusters would be to provide an indicative program for
each desa indicating the type(s) of facility, the number of facilities and the locations of command
area that can be served. The potential development areas would be shown on simple maps. In
practice, a high level of beneficiary participation should be involved in defining the boundaries of
individual tubewell command areas as this, in effect, defines the composition of WUA. Technical
considerations must however be given due weight in the definition of command areas and may
sometimes override social and cultural considerations. However, the use of buried PVC pipe
distribution systems allows for considerable flexibility in locating a well and defining its command
area to accommodate community preference.
12.   At this stage, maps at scale 1:2,000 with contours at 50 cm intervals would be required for
the proposed development areas. Contours showing depth from land surface to water table should
be indicated on these maps (by collecting data from existing open dug wells), if lTfW facilites are
planned for any area 1V. A preliminary definition of command areas and their associated well
locations can then be made on the basis of technical considerations alone (i.e., predicted design
discharge of the well, proposed water duty and thus command area, and topography). However,
although this delineation of command areas may be technically feasible, it must then be checked and
confirmed (or modified if necessary) at desa level to ensure that there are no serious social
constraints to the proposed area. Once this layout has been confirmed, the tentative command areas
would then be used for lhe detailed design of individual tubewell irrigation facilities V. At this
stage, it is possible to in. v the process of forming WUAs.
1/ This infonnation is not critical if DTWs are planned
2/ In negotatng the confirmed disribution of command areas within a desa, care should be taken to avoid isolating
small areas not svWd under the program and too small to serve under a 'fill-in' program.



-74 -                               A x 4
Pagg 4
13.  W&A Y2vlommn. The WUA organization would be based on the existing Presidential
Instruction No. 2 on Establishing Water User Farmer Associations of 1984 (and the 1992 update
of this Regulation) and any pertinent provincial decrees. The cotnmunity based organizations
(CBOs) in each impact area would represent the farmers, and other user groups for muldpurpose
wells. The CBO would make a written request for a tubewell system and agree to form a WUA
which would take on responsibility for O&M of the facility after comnpletion (para 8 above).
14.  This critical step would ensure that the potendal beneficiary groups fully understand their
responsibilities and commitnents. To assist in this process, special WUA development staff/units
would be established in each P2AT to provide an effective link between the conmmunity to be served
and the technical staff of P2AT and other agencies involved. These staff/units would be primarily
responsible for the community pardcipadon aspects of the development process. In particular, they
would assist the CBOs in the formiadon of WUAs by arranging informal and formal meetings
attended by community leaders, farmers and other users. At the appropriate time, they would
arrange the forum to appoint leaders to fornally establish the WUA and decide its constitution and
bylaws.
15.  During the preparation phase, orientation and participatory training would be carried out by
P2AT staff. Training would focus on: (a) identfying and explaining the roles and responsibilities
of the WUA members in the tubewell development process; (b) the organization and registration of
the WUA; and (c) the managementrole of the WUAs including, finances and O&M activities. Also
dring the preparation phase, farmers would be trained by PRAS staff in the development of their
agricultural development plas. A special challenge would be to help fanners understand what
would be involved in making the transition from rainfed to irrigated agriculture.
16.  DesigL of Tubewel Facilides. The development is conceptualized to be based on ITIWs
with design discharges of about 10 l/sec and DTWs wit design discharges of about 20 l/sec to 30
1//sec depending on the subproject area (Annex 5). A standard water duty of 1.0 1/s/ha has been
selected for design purposes for the entire development. This duty appears to be adequate to meet
peak demands of the assumed cropping patterns with a maximum of about 18 hours pumping per
day in all except very dry years (Annex 8). The design discharges and water duties imply command
areas of 10 ha for TIW facilities and of about 20-30 ha for DTWs. However teactual
area for anv well location would be decided after the well has been developed and the actual
discharge is known, A permanent pump house will be provided. The main distribution system will
be through buried PVC pipes with turnout boxes fitted with alfalfa type valves to serve areas of
about 1.0 ha. Distibution below the turnouts would be through open earth channels constructed by
the farmers. Land and fencing for pump houses would be provided by the concerned WUA.
17.     einMdfctosftMWus  s  fWtrS lFclte. In some cases,it
will be possible to adapt the groundwater facility design for multipurpose use, specifically to
provide a formal domestic water supply (DWS) and/or houseyard irrigation service, in addition to
the basic irrigaton sevice. Such opportunities would generally occur when a well is located close
to a ur settlement. The potential for such a service would be identified during the initial desa
progmming process for tubewell clusters (para 9(a) above), and the need and demand for the
servce determined when the proposed siting of tubewell locadons and their associated command
areas are discussed and confirmed with potential beneficiaries (para 12 above). Although
Government would meet the construction cost of a DWS facility, there must be a clear requirement
and demand for such a service, and beneficiaries must express willingness to meet any incremental
costs for O&M and management of the DWS facility provided.
18.  A range of DWS facility types of varying complexit can be envisaged. For example, a
simple type of facility could be a low level storage tank of suitable size (fitted with a number of
robust taps for drawing water) located near a well, which would be filled at intervals through a
valved bypass pipe taken from the irgation pump. Alternatively, domestc water supply could be



-75-                                 AnneA 4
reticulated through a buried pipeline taken from the pump to several storage tanks distributed at
strategic localities within a habitation area. The main criteria for design of the system would be
manageability by the beneficiaries and cost-effectiveness.
19.  Facilities r Houseyard igariQon. Encouragement of houseyard irrigation to improve diet
and/or income of the rural poor would be a feature of the project. As most rural houses are located
in a compound where such cultivation would be possible, houseyard irrigation could be developed
whenever groundwater irrigation facilides are located close to a settlement. Moreover, it is likely
that beneficiaries of the tubeweil conunand area will also own houses where garden irrigation could
be developed. The basic premises for the provision of an irrigation service for house gardens
would be: (a) there is an expressed desire for the facilities by potential beneficiaries; (b) facilities
would be easily manageable as part of the overall irrigation operation; and (c) the concerned
irrigation WUA would be willing to take on the additional management responsibility for providing
inrigation to house gardens and have a workable plan for collecting associated user fees.
20.   Demonstration of Designed Tubewell Facilities to Beneficiaries. Before finalizing the
design of the piped distribution system for a tubewell irrigation facility, the design principles sho.ild
be demonstrated to the intended beneficiaries. This would involve assembling a representative
group of beneficiaries to walk through the proposed command area with P2AT engineering staff.
The proposed locations of the turnout boxes and the fields to be served would be identified and
discussed with the potential beneficiaries. Any technically viable and reasonable modifications
resulting frm this demonstradon would be incorpoated in the final design.
ImWwle tation Phas
21. Normally in groundwater development, final decisions on the design of a complete irrigation
facility cannot be made until a tubewell is constructed and its actual discharge characteristics are
known. Thus, a program of production well construction is undertaken in advance of finalization
of the irrigadon facility design. In practice, P2AT offices generally complete a program of well
illing during one fiscal year and implement the associated irrigation works during the following
fiscal year. The interim period between well completion and initiation of irrigation system
construction is used for finalizing the irrigation system design, preparing and letting of works
contracts, and specification and procurement of the required pump units.
22.  The WUA Agreement. Once there is enough infornation to finalize the design of the
irrigation facility, it then possible to finalize the process of setting up the WUA since the
beneficiaries to be served can now be identified. Once composition of the WUA has been finalized
and its officers elected, they would enter into an aement under which: (a) the farmers and other
users would confirm arrangements and responsibility for O&M during the initial two years O&M
support by P2AT; and (b) agree to take full responsibility for O&M after the two year period.
Constrction of the irrigation facility would then proceed with WUA representatives encouraged to
monitor progess.
Q=zdmio and Maintenanoe Phas
23.   .Mmsigning of Tubhwell Faclities. The fint stage of this phase would involve a
ngorous procedure for handing over completed tubeweUls to WUAs. This would be managed by
P2AT which would coordinate the involvement of the other local govemment entities involved. An
essential task would be to confirm that completed tubewell facilities can function as planned and
designed before they are handed over for management to their respective WUAs. Any faults
detected during the testing process would be corrected by the contractor (or P2AT) before the hand
over to WUA is made. Once it has been confirmed that a tubewell system can perform as designed,
there would be a formal certification by P2AT that the system is fully functional. Representatves of
the local govennment (Bupati/Camat) and the WUA would observe a test of the system when the
handing over ceremony is conducted.



-76-                              Annex 4
Pae 6
24.  Initial O&M Suport. After the completion of the tubewell system, the P2AT would
provide support for the O&M costs of the facility for a period of two years. This initial assistance
to the WUAs would help ensure that the tubewell O&M costs do not constrain the use of the facility
during the critical transition from rainfed to irrigated agrculture. During the initial O&M period, the
performance of the tubewell system would be carefully monitored.
25.  Ia                                 The agriculture development component would
be caried out by PRAS (Annex 9). The priniaiy objective would be to assist farmers in making the
transition from rainfed to irrigated agriculture. PRAS would provide support to implement the
agricultual development plan for each command area. PRAS would: provide seeds for high value
or new crops; and conduct tials and demonstrations for new crops and improved crop production
methods (including soil and water conservation, and crops diversification). PRAS would also
provide WUAs with advice on: (a) crop production credit and crop insurance; (b) post harvest
arrangements for transport, drying, storage and markedng, (c) advantages and initiatives needed for
WUA members to form a cooperative to avail of group credit; and (d) participation in various
literacy, business and income generating skills and credit programs.
Long TrmQ&M_ Sup
26.  After the initial O&M support phase, WUAs would be supported by the PRIS in each
province. The PRIS would continue to monitor the performance of the tubewell facilities. The
PRIS would provide technical guidance, and assist IWUAs if there is a technical problem. In
addition, long-term agricultural support would continue through the existing services provided by
PRAS.



-77-                               An=e S
INDONESIA
GROUk")WATER DEVELOPI ROJE
Plantfg and Design crteria and Methodology fa 9rwnd-wa Deloment=
1.  This Annex oudines planning and design criteria would be used as general guidelines for
preparation of the project work programs, including the first year of project implementation
(FY 199314). The project consultants would review these criteria (and methodology to apply the
criteria) and recommend modifications, if required, so that a standardized approach to planning and
design of groundwate. development can be formulated, tested and adopted by the end of the second
yea of project implementaton.
2.  13ackgounld. The planning, design and implementation of groundwater (groundwater)
inigation development are undertaken by DGWRD through subproject offices (P2ATs) of the PAT
Subdirecorat in DOI-II, with the main focus on construction of works. The scope, scale and rate of
groundwater development in each province have been generally decided by availability of funding at
he national level, with limited involvement of the provincial and local governments. Groundwater
development has been implemented on as discrete subprojects with each consultant introducing
separate planning and design critena and procedures
3.  The main lesson leaned at date is a clear need for planning and design criteria and processes,
implementation procedures and O&M management arrangements to be standardized and applied to all
subproject areas. Such planning and design criteria should enable the technology selected for any
locaton to be hydrogeologically appropriate, the least cost solution and sustainable under farmer
anagement It should also enable ful participation of the farmers and other beneficiaries to be
served, taking into consideration physical resources and technical determinants and the possibility of
muldtpurpose use of groundwater resources.
4.  In addition, until preparation of the proposed project, groundwater development in Indonesia
has proceeded on the basis of tine consuming and expensive exploration studies to estimate reliable
groundwater resources, followed by planning and and design activities related to the use of these
resources. Ihese were caied out under separate projecs, mainly in traditional areas for groundwater
exploitation in Java. Thus, another project objective would be to adopt a planning approach and
related work programs which would reduce exploration costs. In addition, the planning process
should enable risks to be limited, and enough flexibility to be maintained in the spatial layout of a well
field, and thus individual well points, so that project can respond to inevitable unknowns in
groundwater development. To achieve this objective, perfonmance evaluation of existing and project
tubewell facilities would need to be substantially strengthened.
5.  To summarize, a consolidated and standardized methodology for the identification and planning
process still does not exist, although criteria for selection of potential groundwater development areas
have been prepared under several groundwater irrigation projects. It is therefore conciuded that for
identification and screening of potential groundwater development areas, a simple standard
methodology should be applied using as far as possible all existing physical and other resource
information. The objective would be to quickly delineate areas with groundwater development
potental and then test the various determinants to confirm that an area should be developed. The
potentially suitable areas would be evaluated through in-depth investigations following a sequential
procedure of tests. Once the impact area (cluster of tubewell) satisfies the standards of 'go-ahead'
status then it would be formally cleared for project implementadion. The following parts of this
Annex outline the methodology and sequential procedures to achieve the above planning and design
objectives.



-78-                               AD5
PagC 2
A. Planningomudwaterye            ntreas,
6. a.LQp~iMIhQdQIQgy. The first step in the procedure for identification of subproject areas
would be to collect basic information and data in enough detail to establish in general terms that the
proposed development is viable. The main planning determinants are as follows:
(a)   There must be sufficient physical resources (i.e. groundwater availability and suitable
agricultural land).
(b)   There must be a general demand for irrigation service by potential beneficiaries and no
other water source except for groundwater (i.e. most farmers want and would look after
and pay for at least the O&M of ar :rrigation service).
(c)   The proposed groundwater development must be financially and economically viable
(i.e. be able to generate a economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 10 percelt)
confirmed by evaluating performnance of existing groundwater facilities and, as the
project proceeds, those constructed under the project
7.  The first stage would be to identify potential groundwater development reas through a desk
study of existing development proposals that have not yet been implemented. In this process, a
pireliminary study, using existing data and records, should confirm that the proposed well field
satsfies the general physical resource and technical criteria for the proposed project. In particular, the
proposed subproject area should not be located within the command area of an existing (or proposed)
surface irrigation scheme and has land suitable for irrigated agricultural development 11. This process
is to delineate those areas that are viable to develop and appear to satisfy the project planning and
design criteria. It should then be possible to determine the general location of proposed subprojects
(iLe., the general impact area of each cluster of tubewells) that are likely to be viable for development.
8.  Once a potential impact area has been identified with potential for groundwater development, the
area would be divided into 'go-ahead' and 'expansion' programs. The 'gQahead' part of a program
can be implemented immediately. Any '2ansion' part of a subproject area would proceed when
existing tubewells (and, when possible, those constructed under the 'go-ahead' program), have been
sufficiendy monitored and evaluated to confirm that criteria on social, financial and economic
performance can be met. This approach of dividing potential programs into 'go-ahead' and
expansion' categories would provide the flexibility needed to address the inevitable uncertainties in
groundwater development. It would also enable lessons learnt, as the project proceeds, to be
incorporated in the development process. As presently envisaged, about 15,300 ha of development
are categorized as 'go-ahead', while some 9,350 ha are initially retained in the expansion category
(Annex 1, Table 1).
9.  General Planning of Cluster of Tubewells. Orne the above process has been completed, and
before proceeding to the detailed planning and design stage, the following essential steps must be
processed for each proposed subproject area:
A. Assemble Basic Physical and Technical Information. The P2AT would collect in a pre-
established fonmat (to be designed by the project consultants) all available existing physical,
technical, agronomic and socio-economic information of each proposed subproject area
recorded on a desa basis. It would be essential that a sketch map of the areas is prepared
showing the location of the proposed development lands with respect to villages, roads and
If   Groundwater deelopment is an expensive undetaing and hore  wells shouM be locaed m mrinfed sawah or
tegal area where the incemental benefits will be greater. Only in very special cases, should siting of a tubewell
be considerd within fte command area of a surface water scheme. An acceptble conditon would be that fte
area is under severe, panet water shoge and surce iigaon supplies are iadequat and uneliable. As a
guideline, the present cropping intensity of such lcations should be similar to that of adjacent rainfed areas.



-79-                             Annex S
Page 3
the desa boundaries. In addition to desa specific information: rainfall data should be
co}lected from most significant nearby meteorological stations and general information on
agricultural development opportunities including markets. Data would be checked for
adequacy and reliability as inputs to the planning and design process.
B.   UikX Communitv E^rM        and Pardgadon, Once the analysis of data collected for the
potential area indicates that the area appears to be technically viable (Step A above), the
socio-economic viability should then be tested (with full participation' of the potential
beneficiaries as described in Annex 4). In this process, the P2AT should confm from
local government (at desa, kecamatan, kabupaten levels) and through monitoring
performance of existing tubewells in the vicinity of the proposed development area, that
local farmers want development of groundwater resources. In particular, it should be
established that farmers would be wiling to accept (in principle) the responsibilities and
costs that would occur if a groundwater facility was provided.
C.  The 'Go-ahead' work  orm' Once a number of subproject areas have been identified
that appe  to be technically, socially and economically viable to develop, the priority of
developing these areas would be decided at a provincial level. In the new development
areas, a primary objective would be to design an initial program which satisfied the
exploration requirements. Thus, initial 'go-ahead' wells would be spaciously located ovei
the potential impact area to give the best coverage for evaluating the groundwater resource
potential. In areas with existing groundwater development, project wells would also be
located to provide additional performance data to confirm the socio/economic impact of the
proposed well field. The work progrm would be formulated to take into account: (i) any
provincial re ional priorities, (fi) the P2AT institutional capacity to implement the work
programs; (ifi) the time frame required to develop a typical cluster of tubewells (i.e.,
procurement considerations, etc.); (iv) budgetary considerations; and (v) coordination with
other agencies involved, particularly if some wells are likely to be multipurpose. The net
outcome would be a tentadve annual work program, agreed with the provincial and local
govenmments, which would then be subject to confirmation after more detailed planning and
design of each specifc cluster of tubewells.
10. Detailed Planning and La  faCluster  Tubewells. For each desa/kecamatan within the
tentative impact area of a cluster of tubewells to be developed (as identified under the preliminary
screening process outlined in para 7 above), sufficient information would be collected to enable the
provisional siting of individual wells within the subproject cluster. The information would be
collected to a standard format (designed by the project consultants) for each desa and then collated for
program planning and should include, inter alia, the following determinants:
(a) area of the "tegal" and "sawah" (dry or irrigated) lands proposed for development;
(b) source and reliability of existing irgaton water sources;
(c) tota population of each village and population living on farming within the impact area of
the proposed subproject (ie. cluster of wells);
(d) existence of transmigration programs;
(e) farm size, land tenure and the main activities of the population to be served by the potential
tubewell area;
(f)  soil quality, present cropping pattems and cropping intensities in 'tegal' and 'sawah' lands;
(g) main palawija and high value ctops and their market potential;
(h) nearest iprtant (market) town, accessibility and distance;



-80-                               Annex S
Pag& 4
(i) inventory of existing wells and tecords of static water level both in dry and wet season as
depth below ground surface; and
(j)  records of relevant hydrogeological logs and performance tests of existing IlTWs and
DTWs (see Part B for description of tubewell technology).
If quantified data is not available for the above parameters, a subjective assessment would be made of
the determinant and the related risk of such a judgement calculated.
I1. Once the data and information has been collected for the proposed cluster of tubewells (as
outined above), this would be analyzed and evaluated against a detailed set of criteria (paras 12 and
13 below) that would be applied to fix the boundary of the cluster of tubewells and potential siting of
individual wells. This tentative siting of tubewell locations would be decided by P2AT and agreed
with local Govemnment representatives. The process would allow for some flexibility in the final
siting of wells to reflect local considerations but would, however, be always governed by technical
considerations (i.e., availability of groundwater and suitable agricultural land). Once the well field
and approximate siting of individual well has been agreed, the proposal would be submitted to the
central PAT offices for evaluation, formal clearance and approval.
12. Siting ofndividual TubW_dl Systems The final stage would be full community participation
with potential groups of farmers to confirm the tentative boundaries of individual tubewells and set up
the water users associations (WUAs). In this process, detailed physical, social and other community
factors would be taken into consideration, including whether the tubewell would be multipurpose or
not. In this process, WUAs would be told that the actual boundaries of a tubewell system would be
finalized only af= the well point has been developed and the well discharge is confirmed.
13. Criteria for Selection of Areas and Siting of Individual Tubewells. The siting of an individual
tubewell system within a cluster area would ensure that for each individual site, the physical resources
are adequate and sustainable and that technical, social and financial and economic criteria have been
satisfied. This is because there can wide variations in design parameters within relatively small
development areas. In addition, an individual tubewell siting would confirm that the command area
reaches the target population (i.e., most beneficiaries are poor families or small farm holders) and also
takes into consideration opportunities for multipurpose use of groundwater.
14. Siting for an individual tubewell would be based on the following determinants.
(a)  Selected tubewell command areas would exclude those areas where STW development is
possible. In borderline areas, where aquifer conditions are marginal for STW development,
project tubewells would be sited where existing hand drilled private wells serve less than
(say) 20 percent of the proposed command of project tubewells and project development is
unlikely to have a detrnmental effect on existing tubewells.
(b) There should be an evident demand by the majority of the farmers-beneficiaries who should
demonstrate their willingness to: (i) manage the facility at their own expense, under the
terns and conditions proposed by the project; (ii) make land available free of charge for
pump house and other facilities; (iii) provide access, if necessary for adjacent tubewells; and
(iv) acdvely participate in the construction of the system by providing access to land for
installation of the buried pipe systems and fencing for the pump house, etc.
(c) Areas where tenants farm a substantial part of the command area (say greater than 30
percent) should be given special review to confm the financial viability of the proposed
development. If necessary, specific sociological surveys should be undertaken to confirn
that there is no risk of lack of interest by the potential beneficiaries.



-                                   Annex S
Pag& S
(d)  For areas where the average farm size is large (i.e., on average greater than one hectare)
and/or the population density is low, the socio-economic viability of the tubewell location
should be examined in more detail to establish that the tubewell would achieve the poverty
alleviation objective, and to evaluate whether there might be the risk of labor shortage.
(e) Tubewells should be sited only where fanning is the dominant employment activity. Areas
where the main activity of the population is not farming (e.g., fishery, handicraft, migrant
labor, etc.) should only be considered when there are special sociological considerations
which would justify the site selection.
(f)  Areas in proximity of towns should be examined carefully as there might be shortage of
labor for agriculture intensification and/or the risk of temporary migradon.
(g)  The agricultural development potential (i.e., opportunity for high value crops, etc.) should
be given special attention in screening locations for tubewell clusters and in the design of
individual tubewells and the agricultural support requirements (particularly if an objective
would be to promote a specific high value crop).
(h)  Whenever possible, the ITrW technology (para 15) should be adopted with wells designed
to yield at least 10 I/sec.
(i) Project wells would only be sited where there would be no detrimental effect on existing
domestic water supply facilities.
B. lDggo Implmeon of Facilities
-Desig Crtea
15. Qral Criteria. The development is conceptualized to be based on Intermediate technology
tubewells (ITWs) with design discharges of about 10 I/sec and deep tubewells (DTWs) with
discharges of some 20 to 30 I/sec depending on the subproject area 1/. A standard duty of 1.0 I/sec/ha
has been selected for design purposes for entire development 2/ This implies a command area of
about 10 ha for ITrWs and some 20 to 30 ha for DTWs. A permanent pump house would be
provided. The main distribution system will be through buried PVC pipes with turnouts boxes fitted
with alfalfa valves to serve individual command areas of about 1.0 ha YI. The distribution within the
1.0 ha commands would be through open earth channels to be constructed by the farmers. Any
fencing for pump houses would be provided by the concerned WUA.
16. I1TW facilities would be selected for all locations where suction mode pumping technology is
feasible. In this respect, the following determinants should be taken into account:
(a)    An ITrW can be located, if necessary, at the lowest part in a command area where the
water levels may be at shallower depth, with the water raised to higher levels of the
command through the buried PVC pipe distribution system.
1/ The estimates of design dischag are based on hydrological infomaion available at his time. They should be
regarded as indicative. For example, if up to 15 V/sec could be obtained with suction in an area, hedesign
dischae of an iTIW would be inaeaed and the command area expanded accordingly.
21 lhs water duty appears to be adequate to meet peak demands of the assumed cropping patterns with about 18
hours pumping per day (or less) in all except very dry years.
TS shod not be intrprd tha ch 1.0 ha must have a urnut exclusively for its own use. The location and
command of the tumout would depend on local topography and the shape of the command area If topograhy
allows layout of the pipe conveyance down the mastr sope so ta water can be taken from a tnout box in two
directions to serve two 1.0 blocks, reduction in pipe length and turnouts will mesult in cost savings.



-82-                               n     5
(b)   The pump can be set in a sump if pumping water levels with a surface mounted pump
are a constraint-sumps of up to 3.0 m deep have been used successfully under
ISSPI /.
(c)   The suction depth should not exceed more than 6.0 m at lowest groundwater levels.
17. IrW Facilities. The following provides general design criteria for rTrW facilities with design
discharges of about 10 I/s serving a command area fixed by a duty of 1.0 I/sec/ha.and serving about
10 ha:
(a) Tubewell. Tubewell depths may range from about 40 m to 70 m and would be drilled at
200 mm diameter to accommodate 100 mm casing and screen. The tubular materials would
be of PVC of suitable grde. Screens would be provided for all productive aqifer layers if
unconsolidated granular materials form the aquifer. with gravel packing (if necessary).
Screened sections will cover all productive aquifer material. Wells would be designed for
open hole completion if the aquifer is consolidated rock (i.e., limestone or sandstone) with
100 mm diameter PVC casing mstalled from surface to the expected pumping water level.
(b) Eum house., The pump house would be sized at the minimum to accommodate the pump
unit and its design would provide reasonable security for the unit. The simple design
developed in East Java under ISSP I incorporates many appropriate features and has
reasonable cost. Provision should be made for a masonry walled, concrete floored sump
when this is necessary.
(c) Distribution Sye   The header pipe would be of cast iron or suitable grade PVC. The
above-ground pipe connection would be of cast iron. The buried pipe would be of PVC
material and consist of an appropriate mix of 125 mm and 100 mm diameter pipes. In this
respect, pipes rated for pressures of 5.0 kg/cm2 were commonly used under ISSP I, but
lighter duty pipe may be more appropriate in some circumstances. Buried pipes would be
set at a depth of about 1.0 m and a sand pack may be provided for pipe protection, if
necessary. Turnout boxes would be of masonry and would be fitted with alfalfa type
valves, following a standard, proven design. The layout of the pipe distribution would
make maxmum possible use of the master slope to minimize pipe length and the number of
turnout boxes (para 15 above).
(d) Pump Unit The pump unit would be a diesel engine powered centrifugal pump fitted for V-
belt drive.
18. DTW Facilities. The following provides general design criteria for DTWs with design
discharges of about 20 Vs to 30 Vs. servng command areas of 20 ha and 30 ha respcively fixed on a
design duty of 1.0 I/sec/ha.
(a) Iu1MwM1I. The tubewell depths would range from about 70 m to 110 m. Depths and design
discharges of DTWs in subproject areas are foreseen to be: about 110 Im depth for 30 I/s in
East Java; about 80 m depth for 20 I/s in West Java; and some 1 10 m for 20 I/s in Rumbia,
Lampung. However, real conditions may require some modification within these ranges.
Well tubular materials would be of PVC of suitable grade. The pump chamber casing
would be of 250 mm diameter for 20 I/s wells and 300 mm diameter for 30 Vs wells. A
production string of casing and screen of 150 mm diameter would be instaled if the aquifer
is unconsolidated granular materials and, in this case, a gravel pack may be required.
Scened sections will cover all productive aquifer material. Wells would be designed for
open hole completion if the aquifer is consolidated rock--limestone or sandstone--and, in
11 If do pump unit may be subject to floodig in a sump during periods of high gSundwater levde, ie engine may
be set on a jaimed plinth with eaaeded belt drive to the pump.



- 83 -                              Annex S
this case, only the pump chamber casing would be required. Drilling diameters would be
appropriate for casing diameters.
(b) Pum, house. The pump house would be sized at the mininum to accommodate the pump
unit and provide reasonable security for the unit.
(c) DigMbuol Syvm. The header pipe would be of cast iron or suitable grade PVC. The
above ground pipe connection would be of cast iron. The buried pipe would be PVC
material and consist of an appropriate mix of 150 mm and 125 mm diameter pipes (pipes
rated for pressures of 5.0 kg/cm2 were used under ISSP L but lighter grade may be
appropriate in some circumstances). The pipes would be set at a depth of about 1.0 m and a
sand pack may be provided for pipe protection, if necessary. The turnout boxes would be
of masonry and would be fitted with alfalfa valves, the units being to a standard design.
The layout of the pipe distribution system would be to turnouts commanding blocks of
about 1.0 ha and would make maximum use of the master slope to minimize pipe length and
number of turnout boxes (para 15 above).
(d)  &M Unit, The pump unit would be a diesel engine powered vertical shaft turbine pump.
An inertia starting mechanism would be preferred for the engine rather than a battery
powered starter motor. V-belt drives rather than an angle gear drive would be preferred for
powering the pump.
19.  Improvements to Design Assumptions. The above design assumptions are conservative
because: (a) maximum pump running hours are assumed at about 18 hours per day; (b) inigation
requirements are conservatively calculated; and (c) average well discharges can be expected to be
higher than assumed ff the wells are more efficiently designed. However, the project consists of a
large number of separate tubewell systems. Therefore the design assumptions can be varies as the
roject proceeds and changes should enable tubewell systems to be more cost-effective and thus
inrease the pro ect economic viability. Standard design assumptions would be specifically reviewed
during the detailed planning and design of each project tubewell site.
20.  With respect to items (a) above, the project assumption of a maximum of 18 hours operation
per day is conservative and, if made less restrictive, could also convert to an increase in conmand
area served. The running hours of pump sets could be safely increased to a maximum of 22 hours a
day for short periods (in years of low rainfall). This would allow a proportional increase in the
command area served of at least 20 percent. With respect to item (b) above, there is strng evidence
that farmers, on average, appear to be using less water per crop season than the calculated irigation
requirements, without a measurable decrease in crop production. This would imply that the assumed
design water duty (which defines the command area) of 1.0 i/per/sec (and thus design pumping
hours) are too high (Annex 8). A reduction in the design irrigation duty would convert into a
prorional increase in the commd area (and thus benefits).
21.  With respect to item (c) of para 19 above, there is some evidence that well discharges are not
maximized when the bore hole is constructed because all the productive aquifer is not screened. This
shorcoming should be addressed by better quality control when the borehole is being constructed. In
additon, command areas are simply taken as a standard 10 or 30 ha. Command areas are generally
not designed to reflect the actual well point discharge, known once the well point is developed and
tested and before the buried pipe distribution system is constructed. The command area of project
tubewells should be initially designed to a duty of 1.0 1/sec/ha, but then finalized on the actual
discharge of the well point. It is recommended that the assumed design duty (1.0 i/sec/ha) be reduced
if it is confimed tt this duty is too consrative. The consultants would review the project planing
and design assumptions, and as appropriate, modify the standard planning and design criteria,
prcesses and procedures to address the issues related to possible over design of facilities.
22. Domesi Water S ly MWS) Facilitie  in some areas, multipurpo  se hof te groundwater
wvIl be possible to provide a domestic water supply and houseyard irrigation in addition to the field



- 84 -                             An= S
irrigation service. Such opportunities will generally occur when a well is located close to a rural
settlement Potential for provision of such a service will be recognized during the initial prog ng
process for tubewell clusters. The need and demand for the service would be specifically determined
when the proposed distribution of the tubewell locations are discussed and confirmed with the
potential beneficiaries (Annex 4).
23. It is evident that different types of DWS facilities of varying complexity can be envisaged and
that the design of any facility Wll be, site specific. A simple type of DWS facility would be a low
level storage tank of suitable size (fitted with a number of robust taps for drawing water) located near
the well point. The tank would be filled at intervals through a valved bypass pipe taken from the
irrigation pump. Alternatively, DWS could be reticulated through a buried pipeline taken from the
pump to several storage tanks (fitted withi taps) distributed at strategic localities within the habitation
area. The main crteria for the design of a DWS system would be manageability by the beneficiaries
and cost-effectiveness. It seems probable that provision of a single storage tank would be the most
appropriate facilit in ny cases, particularly if clusters of lTrWs are programmd In all locations
where DWS facilties will be provided under the project, the planning and design of such facilities
would comply with accepted criteria and standards of water quality and public health, satisfactory to
the Bank, as adopted under Bank supported rural water supply and sanitation projects.
hmnQnentaLon of Wors
24. The final decisions on the design of a irrigation distribution system cannot be made until a
tubewell is constructed and its actual discharge is known. Thus, production well construction is
undertaken in advance of the design of the irrigation distribution system. In practice, the P2ATs
generally complete a program of well drilling duiing one fiscal year and phase in the implementation
the associated irrigation works into the following fiscal year. The period (six to nine months)
between well completion and initiation of irrigation system construction is use to finaLize inrigation
distribution system design, preparadon of specification and letting of works contracts, and
procurement of the required pump units. Although this process involves a time lag between
construction of a well and completion of its irrigation facility, it fits well with the Government's
annual budgeting procedures. The process may be foTeseen to continue under the project but can be
imprved.
25. Well construction in P2AT projects is most commonly done using the agencies' own drilling
rigs, through various types of drilling contracts. The tubular materials installed in the wells would be
provided under central ICB procurement. Decisions on designs of individual wells (location of
screen, etc.) and supervision of drilling, well development and pump testing would generally be the
responsibility of P2AT personnel. The procurement anrangements are summarized in Annex 14
together with a tentative schedule of contracts (by category, province and year) given in Table 1 of
Annex 14. Procurement would be based on standardized specifications and contract documentation
and follow processes and procedures aimed to improve quality control.
26. Commission of Tubewell Facilities for Handover to WUAs A rigorous procedure will be
applied by P2AT for testing the operational performance of all completed tubewell facilities against the
intended design objectives before the tubewell systems are handed over for management to their
ref.pective WUAs. Any faults detected during the testing procedure would be corrected by the
concerned entity (contactor or P2AT) before the formal handover is made.
GM (        fx TUbew   Irrigtin Eacle.
27. Detailed cost esdmates for tubewell inigaton facilities of various types and capacities are given
in Tables 1 to 5 attached to this Annex.



-85 -
Annex 5
INDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Cost Esdmates for Groundwater Irrigation Facilities a/
A. nTW Facilities with 10 ha Command Area
Tubewell Depth    S(m                60m               80m
Item Description                            Costs (Rp'000)
1  Tubewell                  7487              9155              10237
2  Pumphouse                 3000              3000               3000
3  Distribution Systan      10131             10131              10131
4  Pump Set                  3250              3250               3250
5  Pump Set sallation         300               300                300
Total    24168             25836             26918
6  Sump (if required)        2000              2000               2000
Total   26168             27836              28918
B. DTW Facilities with Range of Depths and Command Areas
Tubewell Depth    70m       70m      80m      80m     110m
Command Area    1S ha    20 ha    1S ha    20 ha    30 ha
Item Description                            Costs (Rp'000)
1  Tubewell                 18751    18751    20569    20569    27026
2  Pumphouse                 4800     4800     4800     4800      4800
3  Distribution System      22126    29391    22126    29391    43841
4  Pump Set                 19200    20500    26800    28500    29800
5  Pump Set Insllation       1200     1200      1200     1200     1200
6  Access Road               3000     3000     3000      3000     3000
Total    69077    77642    78495    87460   109667
aJ The above assumes that wells are completed with casing and screen to final depth
if a open hole compleion is possible, tubewell construction costs are much lower
than indicated above in all cases (Annex 5, Tables 2 and 3).



DONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOP1MT PROJECT
Cost 1sd3ates for W1    In a Range of Depths
WellDeplh-50m         WellDepth-60in       WellDepth -80m
Item             Desription                Unit UnitCost   Quanty   Total Cost  Quantty  Tota Cost  Quanty   Total Cost
(Rp0        (OOO)               (RpPOOO)                         (RpYO0)
I  SitemPmkdw                              Sam        1S         I         150         1         1SO         1         150
2  IandkmWomp maw _Sam                                300         1         300         1         300         1         300
3  Eq_pmedazt       e Wm cbday                        110         8         880        16        1760        10        1100
4  Equip. mobizlui/dmob.                   sum        600         1         600         1         640         1         600
5  DuiflngpHothaleat200nnmdiam.              m         40        50        2000        60        2400        80        3200
6  Geophyskclgoigng                          m          3        50         150        60         180        80         240
7  Provsionof l0ommdiam.PVCcasing            m         14        30         420        36         504        50         700
8  Prwvsionofl00mmdiam.PVCcauing             m         21        20         420        24         504        30         ,30
9  InstlatkonofPVCcasingandscamen            m          5        50         250        60         300        80         400
10  Conmteback-fillingihnaicd              cum         90        03          27        03          27       03           27
11 Welldevexopmentandtesting                 br        30        25         750        25         750        25         750
12  WeD head completon                     sum        100         1         100         1         100         1         100
13  Bentanitefordriling                     ton      1200        1.2       1440        1.3       1560        1.7       2040
Tota Costs of Wels                                   7487                  9135                 10237
Deduction if the well point is open hole                            -900                 -1118                 -1540
Toal costs of Open hole Wells a/                               6587                  8017                  8697
a/  If well is conpleted open hole, redue: (1) PVC casing to 10 meters (item 7), (i) elinate PVC screm (itm 8);
and (iii) redue iten 9 to 10 meters.



INDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECF
Cost Esmates for DIWs mit a Range of Depths
We  llDe   - 70m     WeU Dph - 8)m       WcllDeplh - llOm
ltem             Desacipfi                Unit UnitCost   Qouul    Total Cost  Qatity  Total Cost  Quanity  Total Cost
(Rpwo)               (tpD0o)              (Rp'W)               (R0p=)
I  Sitepmpu Pdo- sm                                400         1        400         1         400         1        400
2  lat       q _rocomponsation           sum        300         1        300         1        300         1        300
3  Eqdp_mtbimdec                          day       18S        14       2590       16        2960        22       4070
4  Equip,.                               sum       100)         I       IOOD         I       1000         1       1000
S  Dnlgt pflot bob a 200 ram  diem         m3        40       70        280        80        3200       110       4400
6  Gephysical bggig                        m          3       70         210       80         240       110        330
7  Roamningto350mmdarm.                    ni        35       27         945       27         945                    0
8  Reamingto400mmdiam.                     m         35                   0                     0       40        1400
9  Reamingto2S0 mm diam.                   m         35       43        1505       53        1855        70       2450
10 Pvsionof250nmmdiam.PVCcasing             m1       SO        27       1350        27       1350                    0
11  Pdvuionof300 mdlam PVCcasmg            m         60                    0                    0        40       2400
12  Povsanof 150mmdiamn.PVCcaing            m        30        20        600        26        780        30        900
13 Phovsionofl50 nmdiam PVCsceen           m         45        21        945        27       1215        40       1800
14  PfoviionofPVCsqeciaLs                 sim       ISO         1        1SO         1        1SO         1        150
15  lnstallazonofPVCcasingandscrem         m         20        70       1400        80       1600       110       2200
16  Gravelpackinginssale                  uVm        35       1.5         53         2         70       3.5        123
17  Cnete back-filling istled            cm          90       0.6         S4       0.6         54       0.6         54
18  Well evelopmnentadresting              hr        30        45       1330       45        1350        45       1350
19  Wclbealdco nm                         sum       100         1        100         I        100         I        100
20 Bentonitefordrl1ing                    tn      1200       2.5       3000       2.5       3000         3       3600
TOTAL COSTS of WELLS                                    18752                20569                27027
Deductionif the Wepoitis open Hole                                4111                 -5130                -6822
TOTAL COSTS of OPEN HOLE WELLS (notea                              14641                15439                20Q05
q/ If well is cnpited pen ho, omit: (i) reing to 250nun diam (item 9); (ii) pmivision of 150mnn diam. casing and screing (items 12,13);
PVC special (item 14); and gravel pacng (item 16); and reduce item 15 accordingly.
iiA



DONESIA
GROUNDWATEt DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
Cost E asr Busied Pipe Distibution Systems al
(Command Ares of 10,15, 20 and 30 ha with moa Oes semving 1.0 ha)
10 haCommd                 iS haCoemmand              20 baConmand               30 haCommand
hoem        Dsciption                Unit    Unit Cost     Quatity       Total cost    Quani        Toa cost      Quantity      Tota cod      Qumatiy      Tota co
MPQlOOO                    (1lp¶00)                    (RpWO)                     (RpWo)
1   SmvgeyadDeogp                    ha        60000           10           600            15           900           20           1200          30           1300
2   EasthwoibExavaton              cu.m         1800          245           441           480           864          640           1152         960           1728
3   EazdrorkhAcfin m                             700          210            147          400           280          S30            371          800           560
4   Sandflandpipe                  cm m         7500           3S          262.5           80           600          110            825          160          1200
S   PVCpip-l0omm diem                 m         S300          300           1S90                          0
6   PVCpipe- 12S mm dhmn                        8500          300           2550          600          5100          800           6800         1200         10200
7   PVCpipe-l10mnmmdbm.               m        11300                                      600          6780          800           9040         1200         13560
8 PVCspeelfiflngs                   no.        1200                         100           13            16           18             22           26            31      00
9   Povlon@fsn dpip                   m        25000            6            1SO            6           ISD            6            150            6           150      ?
10  Tnumpost of me als             sm                                       880                        1816                       2421                        3632
11  LalngPVCpipe&Waftng               m           700         600            420         1200           840          1600          1120         2400           1680
12  Alfalfatypevalves                no.      220000            7           1S40           13          2860            17          3740           25           SS0
13  Mmy vdin boues                   no.       40000             7           280           13           520            17           680           25           1000
14  Miscelaus                       sum                                     1170                       1400                        1870                        2800
Averasge Totl CSt                                               10131                       22126                      29391                       43841
Costperha                                                  1013                       1475                       1470                        1461
al  Thse cost etimates ammo atypical layout withb about 60 peroent alflfa valve oudets eah serving 1.0 ha and the mairnder setving 2.0 ha each. Substani savings in cost per unit
mawouldocmiftedistibutionlayoutsaedesigneddownthe,manslodpewitheach  alfavalveouletservin two 1.0 blocks.
b   One ofb stuces to be u     _nan by the consuts would be to develop a design ppucsdwe to give mor cost effective layouts and also evauate the oost savings if the
command ama can be expanded once the well diechaepis bno  by imasasing the cmmad ofalfalfa valves to geater than 1.0 ha.
II



-89-
Annex 
INDONESIA
GROUNWATER DEVELOPMENT F .OJECT
Summary Cost Estimates for Pump Sets
with a Range of Discharge Rates and Pumping Heads
A. Centrifugal Pump Sets with Diesel Motors
Item    Discharge tate Dynamic Head   Required HP       Unit Cost
(l/s)         (m)                           (Rp'OOO)
1        8 to 12         12             4               3000
2        8 to 12         12             5               3500
Average            3250
B. Vertical Shaft Turbine Pump Sets with Deisel Motors
Item    Discharge Rate Dynamic Head   Required HP       Unit Cost
(Us)          (m)                           (Rp'000)
I          15           16-18           6               19200
2          15           38.40           13              26800
3          20           15-17           7               20500
4          25           23-25           14              28500
6          30           24-26           17              29800
a/   Isallation costs are estimated at Rp 300,000 per unit for centrifugal
pump sets and Rp 1,200,000 per uiit for vertical shaft t;rbin pump sets.
b/ The cost estimates do not include spare parts for imported equipment
(say, 15 percent of contract cost).



-91-                             Annex
EgLI
,RONESIA
GRUNDATER DEVUDIENI PRO1EC17
Groundwater Conditions in Subgrojet Aras
1.  Intoduction. The development objective of the project is to expand groundwater irrigation by
about 25,000 ha distributed in various subproject areas in East Java, West Java, Nusa Tenggara
Baram, Nusa Tenggara Timor, North, Central and South Sulawesi, Aceh, North and West Sumatra,
and Lampung 1/. The project would exclude development in areas where hydrogeological conditions
(depth of aquifer, pumping water level and rock type) are suitable for groundwater development by
the private sector using hand-driUed shallow tubewells (STW), or hand-dug open wells equipped
with surface mounted centrifugal pumps. In evaluating the groundwater resources, a key objective is
to delineate areas suitable for llTWs and DTWs, the two types of groundwater irrigation facility to be
installed under the project as described in Annex 4.
2.   Groundwater conditions and social attitudes towards the proposed types of development are
well enough known in many of the subproject areas to plan the development with a high degree of
certainty. However, in some subproject areas L the Outer Islands, hydrogeological conditions appear
favorable, but they are as yet unproven. Proposed subproject areas have therefore been categorized
as: (a) 'go-ahead' areas suitable for firm development programs involving limited risk of failure; and
(b) 'expansion' areas with unknowns relating to hydrogeology and/or social attitudes. In the
'expansion' areas, development programs would only be initiated after pilot schemes have confirmed
that full scale development is viable and success of the pilot programs have been proven. In this
situation, the wells drilled under the pilot schemes have an exploratory function. Annex 1, Table I
summarizes the proposed development by subproject area, type of facility and into 'go-ahead' and
'expansion' schemes. The information on groundwater conditions in the various project provinces
and their subproject areas is summarized below.
3.   EastUnx. Groundwater conditions are well known in East Java as a result of exploration and
development programs implemented to support groundwater irrigation for more than two decades.
Despite substantial groundwater irrigation development, it is considered that there is potential to serve
additional areas of at least 20,000 ha. The main aquifers are formed by either fluvio-volcanic or
limne formations. Wells in limestone formations may be completed in an open hole. Large areas
are suitable for development using ITIWs, though care will be necessary to avoid encroaching into
areas suitable for STW development. In other areas, water levels and other aquifer ccnditions prevent
the use of ITrWs, and development by DTW facilites is mandatory. Additional development in at
least part of the Brantas basin may be constrained by competing demands and the overall water
balance of the basin. Care will be necessary to avoid inducing salt water intrusion near the coast,
particularly with regard to limestone aquifers. The planned development under the project includes
4,600 ha by ITIW facilities using wells of about 60 m average depth designed for discharges of
about 10 V/s, and 3,400 ha by DTW facilities using wells of about 1 10 m average depth designed for
discharges of about 30 I/s. Some ITW facilities will require sumps in which to set the centrifugal
pumps. The entire program is categorized as 'go-ahead' status.
4.   WestJaa. Although not investigated in the detail of East Java, the groundwater conditions in
West Java are fairly well known. The most important aquifers are formed by fluvio-volcanic
materials. Three subproject areas have been selected where development can be planned on a 'go-
ahead' basis.
(a) Gabugyetan is located adjacent to the north coast and some 150 km east of Jakarta. About
1000 ha will be developed by ITrW facilities with wells of 50 m average depth designed for
discharges of about 10 Vs, and 600 ha with DTW facilities with wells of 80 m average depth
I/ Asian Development Bank is supporting a similar project with development areas in Central Java.



- 92 -                            Annex6
-922
designed for discharges of about 20 I/s. The lrTW facilities may require sumps in which to
set the centrifugal pumps.
(b) Qmpka is located adjacent to the noth coast and about 90 km east of Jakarta. About 300 ha
will be developed by 1TrW facilities with wells of about 50 m average depth designed for
discharges of about 10 I/s. and 100 ha with DTW facilities with wells of 80 m average depth
designed for discharges of about 20 Vs. It is foreseen that the JrTW facilities may require
sumps in which to set the centrifugal pumps.
(c) Karanwan is located to the east of Bandung. It is envisaged that the entire 400 ha area
will be developed by ITrW facilities with wells of averaging about 60 m in depth designed for
discharges of about '0 1/s. The centrifugal pumps will be mounted at land surface.
5.   Nusa Tenggara Barat. Development is planned at various localities on Lombok and in three
areas on Sumbawa island:
(a) Lombok. The hydrogeology is well known from studies carried out with Italian Government
assistance and from a groundwater irrigation development program cofinanced by the
Bank/Government of Italy under ISSP I (Ln. 2880-ND). The aquifers are formed by fluvio-
volcanic materials. Groundwater will be developed by DTW facilities with wells averaging
about 80 m in depth designed for discharges of 20 I/s. Though hydrogeological conditions
are known well enough to plan a program of some 900 ha, farmers' response to previous
development has been mixed. Until these problems have been resolved, the entire program is
deferred in the 'expansion' category.
(b) Siumbawa-Keli subproject area is located to the southeast of Bima in the eastern part of
Sumbawa Island. The potential aquifer is formed by alluvial material and data available
indicates that the most productive aquifer material should be encountered in the top 40-60 m of
the alluvial section. Water levels are generally at depths of 2.0 m or less below land surface.
Some farmers use groundwater taken by hand from shallow open wells to irrigate vegetables
in the dry season in a small part of the potential development area. The entire area is planted
to paddy in the wet season. It is envisaged that the area will be developed by ITrW facilities
of some 40-60 depth designed for discharges of about 10 Vs. Sumps may be required in
some localities to ensure the operation of centrifugal pumps. A subproject area of about 750
ha has been selected with 500 ha categorized as 'go-ahead' and with 250 ha deferd into the
'expansion' category until the extent of suitable aquifer is more clearly defined. Care will be
necessary to select areas with sufficient thickness of alluvium and to avoid w& ,r quality
problems.
(c) Sumbawa Sage subproject area is located in the extreme east of Sumbawa Island. Aquifer
conditions are similar to those of Keli, with most productive material concentrated in the top
40-60 m of the alluvial section and with shallow or even flowing artesian water levels. The
farmers grow dry season vegetables irrigated with hand-drawn water taken from shallow open
wells in part of the potential development area. The entire area is planted to paddy in the wet
season. It is envisaged that the area would be developed by ITrW facilities with wells of 40-
60 m depth designed for discharge of about 10 V/s. Sumps may be required to ensure
operation of centifugal pumps in some locations. The total area planned for development is
some 1,000 ha with 500 ha in the 'go-ahead' category and 500 ha deferred in the 'expansion'
category until the area of productive aquifer is properly defined.
(d) Sumbawa-&=o area is an irregular plain that rises from low elevations near the coast to
significanty higher elevations inland. It is underlain by alluvial and volcanic deposits. Water
levels are at shallow depLh in extensive areas, and shallow tubewells produce small artesian
flows near the coast. There is some uncertainty about aquifer conditions, particularly well
productivity and depths of aquifers. A small part of the plain receives irrigation in the dry



-93 -                           Annex 6
season from surface water sources. It is planned to develop about 400 ha of groundwater
irrigation by 11TW facilities with wells of 60 m average depth designed for discharges of
about 10 1/s. Some IlTIW facilities may require sumps in which to set the centrifugal pumps.
Because of uncertainty about the producdon performances of the tubewells, only 100 ha are
categorized as 'go-ahead' program with the balance deferred under the expansion' category.
6.   Nusa Teega Timor. There are several potential groundwater development areas in West
Timor which have been subject to some exploration under a previous CIDA project and under
subsequent investigations. The intermontane plain of Arold and the Besikama coastal plain have been
selected for development from a P2AT office established in Atambua 1/. The proposed development
would be by flrW facilities with wells about 60 m deep designed for about 10 U/s to serve command
areas of about 10 ha. While flowing wells are expected in parts of the Aroki plain, sumps may be
required for instalation of centifugal pumps in other areas. Although the hydrogeological conditions
are fairly well known, the response of the farmers to groundwater inigation is not known. Thus, of
300 ha development planned for both Aroli and Besikarna, only 100 ha in each area are categorized
as 'go-ahead' program, with some 200 ha in each area retained in the 'expansion' category until a
positive farmer is proven.
7.   Nori Sulawesi. A P2AT office has been established in this province over the last two years to
catry out exploratory drilling and pilot development programs. Individual potential development
areas appears to be relatively small in extent. They are located on intenrontane and coastal plains
underlain by alluvial deposits. Some 1,200 ha has been selected for development under the project in
four areas -- Ramhokan (200 ha), Tombatu (200 ha), Lolak (300 ha) and Limboto (500 ha). The
development would be by ITTW fcilities with wells around 60 m deep designed for discharges of
about 10 1/s to serve command areas of 10 ha. Reflecting uncertainties about the extents of the aquifer
systems in the proposed areas and farmer response to the provision of groundwater irrigation, the
'go-ahead' programs have been restricted to 50 ha each in Rambokan and Tombatu and 100 ha each
in Lolak and Limboto, for a total of 300 ha. The balances to the programs totalling 900 ha would be
rtained in the 'expansion' category until the uncertainties are resolved.
8.   Centml S    i. Potential groundwater development tend to be relatively small and scattered
areas, except along the lower flood plain of the Palu river, or in remote areas on the east coastal zone
of the province where the logistics of implementing development from a headquarters in Palu would
be ry difficult. The proposed subproject areas are therefore all in the fairly close vicinity of Palu.
Surface water supplies are not available and rainfall is generally low and unpredictable.
(a) Marawola is located on the right bank flood plain of the Palu river and would be an extension
of a pilot development undertaken under ISSP I which proved successful. The aquifers are
contained in an alluvial sequence and the water table is at shallow depth. It is planned to
develop about 600 ha using 1TIW facilities with wells of 50 m average depth designed for
discharges of about 10 Vls. About 50 percent of the facilities may require a sump to operate
centifugal pump units. The entire program is retained in the 'expansion' category because
certain agricultural development aspects require further investigation.
(b) BlroMaa is located on the Palu river flood plain opposite Marawola and hydrogeological
conditions are expected to be similar to those in that area. It is planned to develop 500 ha
using "ITW facilities with wells of 50 m average depth designed for discharges of about 10
I/s. About half the facilities are expected to require a sump to operate centrifugal pump sets.
Reflecting the agricultural development constraints experienced in Marawola, the 'go-ahead'
program is rticted to 100 ha and 400 ha are retained in the 'expansion' category.
1/ lhe Oesia coosta plain near Kupng was not included under the proWu because there are ongoing projects wi
USAID and Japanese and assistance in this area



-94-                              Annex 6
(c) Banawa is located on the west coast of the province, about 60 km by road from Palu. The
aquifer system is formed by alluvial fan deposits. It is planned to develop some 300 ha using
1TIrW facilides with wells of 60 m average depth designed for discharges of about 10 V/s.
About 50 percent of the facilities will require a sump in which to set the centrifugal pump
units. As this is a new development ara, 100 ha of the program are categorized as 'go-ahead'
and 200 ha are retained in the 'expansion' category.
(d) Dalaka is located on the east coast of the province about 60 km by road from Palu. The
aquifers are contained in alluvial fan deposits. It is planned to develop 300 ha using ITIW
facilities with wells of about 60 m average depth designed for discharges of about 10 I/s.
Sumps will be required to ensure operation of the centrifugal pump units. As this is a new
development area, 100 ha of the program are categorized as 'go-ahead' and 200 ha are
retained in the 'expansion' category.
9.   South Sulawesi Four subproject areas have been identified in this province, which was the
target of a number of pilot developments under the groundwater development component of ISSP-L
(a) Gowa Takalar. Successful pilot developments were undertaken in this subproject area under
ISSP I. The area is located about 25 km by road to the south of Ujung Pandang. The
aquifers are contained in a relatively thin alluvial section overlying a sandstone sequence with
water levels at shallow depth below the alluvial plain. It is planned to develop 1000 ha using
ITTW facilities. With single wells, depths will average about 50 m. In many cases, it may be
preferable to have multiple completion using paired wells, each of about half that depth,
tapping the alluvial aquifer. Pump discharges will be in the range of about 10-12 IUs, and
about half the facilities will require a sump in which to set the centrifugal pump. The entire
program is categorized as 'go-ahead' status.
(b) Maros is located about 20 km by road to the north of Ujung Pandang. A pilot developmnent
was undertaken in the area under ISSP I and proved groundwater conditions suitable for
development by ITTIW facilides, but indicated the need for caution regarding water quality.
The farmer response was good. The aquifer is formed by a limestone formation. The
subproject is planned to develop an additional 500 ha using ITTW facilities with wells of 50 m
average depth discharging about 10 I/s. Wells are expected to be completed 'open hole', and
sumps will not be required. The entire program of 500 ha is categorized as 'go-ahead' status.
(c) liamr is located on the west coastal plain about 80 km to the north of Ujung Pandang. The
aquifer is frmned by a limestone formation. Groundwater conditions have not been proven by
drilling, but are expected to be similar to tiose encountered around Maros, with the main
concern being the water quality. It is planned to develop 500 ha using ITrW facilities with
wells of 50 m average depth designed for discharges of about 10 Vs. Wells will probably be
completed 'open hole'. Sumps may be -'equired to ensure operation of centrifugal pump sets.
Development will be initiated with a pilot scheme of 100 ha categorized as 'go-ahead', with
400 ha retained in the 'expansion' category.
(d) Pangkajene is located on an extensive coastal plain about 40 km to the north of Ujung
Pandang and lying between Maros and Barru. Limestone formation underlies the plain.
Groundwater conditions have yet to be proved by drilling and a major constraint may be water
quality. The development will be by rlTW facilities with wells about 50 m deep designed for
discharges of about 10 /s. The wells will probably be completed in 'open hole', and sumps
may be required for the centrifugal pump units. It is planned to develop 500 ha, with a 'go-
ahead' program of 100 ha and 400 ha deferre' the 'expansion' category.
10. Ljmung. Two subproject areas have been identified in this province. Both are extensive and
could support much larger areas of development than are planned under the project:



-95-                               Annex6
(a) Rumbia. The poposed suboect ara is located on an extensive level plain with light sandy
soils, some 90 km to the northeast of Bandar Lampung. The aquifer system is formed by
sandy aluvium/colluvium underlain by the Upper Pelambmng sandstone formation with a
thiickness of 200 in. Existing tubew,lls. pr ly for ommumty water supply, indicate that
water levels dictate the use of DT  faciis Wells of avge depth 1 10 m for discharges of
about 20 I/s are planned. It would be of interest to investigate the possibility of open hole
completion in the Upper Pelambang sandstone, as thds would reduce well construcuton costs
and make for simpler well development. The major unknown is the response of the famers
to the proposed development with the population mainly transmnigrants. Therefore, an initial
't-ahead' development of 200 ha is planned which can be extended to 1000 ha (800 ha
&ferred in the 'expansion' category) if the  ults of the pilot scheme are encouraging.
(b) Ragi This is an extensive alluvial plain, located about 50 km to the southeast of
Bandar Lampung. It was reclaimed from swampland and setded in the 1980s. The soils are
heavy clays which are cropped with paddy in the wet season and some poor palawija in the
subsequent season. None of the land is inrigated. Dug wells for vilage water supplies
indicate shallow water tables, but tubewell prducti  is unproven. It is phnned to develop
the area with r7TW facilities using wells averaging Om deep with expected discharges of
about 10 i/s. Sumps may be required to ensure opion of centrifugal pumps. An initial
'go-ahlad' program of 200 ha is planned with the wells performing an exploratory function.
ITis would be expanded by an additional 800 ha if the initial results are encouraging.
11. Agh. Two subproject areas have been selected in this province because they are close to
Banda Aceh. However, there are additional areas in the province where groundwater development
appears to be feasible.
(a) Agch2lain. This exensive alluvial plain is located near the town of Banda Aceh. Much of
the plain iS served by surface water iriatixon systems, but upwards of 1500 ha in three main
aeas are not included widtin the surface water comnd aras, though part of these will be
provided with drinage improvements Water tables are at shallow depth of less than 2.0 m
below land surface at the end of the dry season. Aquifer productivity has yet to be proved by
test production drilling, but the prospects of encounteing high yielding aquifers at relatively
shallow depth are considered to be good. It is planned to develop 600 ha of groundwater
imigadon under the project by lTIWfacilities based on wells of about 60 m depth designed
for discharges of about 10 I/s serving commnd areas of 10 ha. Reflecting uncertainties about
actual well productvity and farmers sponse to the provision of groundwater irigation, only
100 ha are included under the 'go-ahead' program with 500 ha retained in the 'expansion'
category. Close proximity of Aceh town should encourage cultivation of vegetables.
(b) Padan g Tjifain. This extensive alluvial plin is located on the east coast about 60 km by
road frm the town of Banda Aceh. Much of the plain is served by surface water irrigation,
but there are rclatively extensive areas which are not included within the surface water
commands. Moreover, the surface water availability is inadequate to provide a secure
irrigation service to the entire command area during the dry season. It is proposed to develop
600 ha of groundwater irrigation under the project using ITIW facilities with wells about 60
m deep designed for dischaes of about 10 /s to serve command areas of 10 ha. Reflecting
some uncertainty about aquifer  cty, 100 ha of the proposed prgram are categorized
as 'go-ahead', while 50 ha are retained under the 'expansion' category. Therm is a well
established system of vegetble producton (notably chillies) based on irrigation by hand
drawn water from shallow wells an part of the plain. lrduce is exported to other parts of
Sumatra by middiemen. It is freseen that the groundwat facilities provided under the
project would suport addional p dtion for this vegetble market.



-96 vv6Annex
12. Noh. Suim2a Four areas with potental for groundwater development using ITIW facilities
have been idendfied in this provirve. These are: (a) P   an alluvial plain at the southern end of
Lake Toba; (b) Baum Tengah an alluvial plain to the east of the district headquarters town of
Padang Sidempuan; Sirok, an alluvial valley to the north of Padang Sidempuan; and Batang
AngkQIQ, an extensive alluvial plain to the south of Padang Sidempuan. Though water levels are
know t^ be at shallow depth (less than 2.0 m below land surface in the dry season), aquifer
conditions have not been proven by test production drilling and fanmer response to groundwater
irrigation has not been demonstrated. Reflecting these uncertainties, of 1,000 ha planned some 200
ha are categorzed as 'go-ahead' and 600 ha are retained in the 'expansion' category. The distribution
by area of the 'goahead' and 'expansion' programs are shown below.
A=              Q42Ahead PfogrmM    EUansion Pro=n        TotlaLPgmm
(ha)                 (ha)                 (ha)
Porsea              100                  200                   300
Baranum Tengah      100                  100                   200
Sipirok             100                  100                   200
BatangAngkolo      1Q                    2g                    300
IQ1         400                   600                 1000
13. It should be noted that vegetable cultivation based on hand drawn water from shallow wells is
practiced in Baranui Tengah and Sipirok areas, and that marketing procedures are well established.
-t is foreseen that project groundwater irrigation facilities would be used for vegetable production.
There is also ample scope for expansion of the development on the Batang Angkola plain and on other
plains further to the south of Padang Sidempuan, if the proposed development proves successful.
14.  WestSu     . Three subproject areas which appear suitable for groundwater irrigation
development by rlrW facilities have been identified. These are: (a) the extensive Buldjttigi alluvial
plain, near the tourist town of tat name; and (b) the Tan and Tanah Pesisir areas located to the
o0uth of Padang, the provincial capital. The last two areas are located within hard core poverty
zones. Aquifer conditions have not been proven by test production drilling in any of the areas,
though water levels are known to be at shallow depths, suitable for 1TIW technology, in all the areas.
A groundwater development program of 1000 ha is planned under the project. But, reflecting the
uncertainties about actual well productivity and response of the farmers to provision of groundwater
irrigation, only 300 ha as 'go-ahead' program and 700 ha are retained in the 'expansion' category, as
follows:
Are             Go-ahead Progan    _ada Prg               Total Progrm
(ha)                 (a)                   (ha)
Bukitdngi           100                  400                   500
Tarusan             100                  100                   200
Tanah Pesisir       l1o                  2QQ
IQta        300                   700                  1000



-97-                                Annex 7
GROUNWATER DETVPR ,OJENT
Qwundwater Monitoring    u1 Rlgulation
1.  The We  et Law of 1974 provides the basic policy statement for all
aspects of water resources development, including groundwater. Government  gulation No. 22 on
Wat ,er Management of 1982 gives the provinces the implicit right to allocate groundwater within their
areas of jurisdiction through the requirement that all groundwater use, except that taken from small
household wells for domestic use, shall be licensed by the Governors' office of the provincial
authoity. The regulation also vests technical oversight and approvai of groundwater development with
the Ministry of Mines and Energy (IME), which has delegated exercise of this power to its Directorate
of Environmental Geology (DEG). The Governors may exercise their regulatory powers by issuing
povincial decrees and regulatns with respect to groundwater development.
2.   es  Situation. Indonesia's groundwater regulation requirements are aimed at safe exploitation
of the resources to avoid over-development and pollution. Although the requirements defined by the
existing legislation are, in most respects, adequate to protect the groundwater resources if properly
applied, the funding, staffing, technical competence, and organizational arrangements presently in place
are insufficient to implement the regulatory functions. Moreover, there appears to be some lack of will
on the part of Government to fully apply the regulations and achieve their objectives.
3.  The MME has a mandate in law (para 1) to provide technical advice and approval for groundwater
development to the provincial authorities, and has delegated responsibility for these tasks to its DEG.
The work should involve groundwater data collection, resource evaluation, and technical monitoring of
groundwater development, including the response of aquifer systems to abstractions and the impact of
all activities on groundwater quality. However, the DEG is not staffed or provided with the budget to
carry out this mandate and the MME staff in the provinces are concerned only with mining related
activities. An MME Ministerial Decree for implementation of its mandate under the Government
Regulation No. 22 of 1982, requires the provincial authorities to submit information on groundwater
development to DEG for techmcal evaluation. But provinces lack technical expertise in groundwater
data collection procedures and the means to collect the information. Thus, the MME/DEG mandate
remains to all intent unfulfilled.
4.  Provincial licensing is almost entirely directed at industrial and conmnercial uses which attract a
user fee based on metered abstractions. These activities are generally located in, or in the close vicinity
of, urban centers and there is strong evidence that the licensing provisions are being circumvented by
many of these users. It is intended that irrigation and other agriculture related groundwater uses should
be licensed, but an abstracdon charge is not levied for such uses. Block licenses are provided by the
provinces for Government financed groundwater development for irrigation by P2AT. Essentially all
pnivate groundwater development for irrigation (located almo;+ entirely on Java, apart from minor hand
drawn abstractions) is unlicensed. Moreover, private development would be extremely difficult to
regulate as the only fixed asset is a hand-rilled or hand-dug hole in the ground which can be installed
at very low cost. Pump sets are mobile and are moved between wells, often under rental agreements.
5. The serious problems with regard to management of groundwater resources are now in the cities,
particularly in Jakarta, where overdraft and/or pollution of aquifers are matters of major concemn.
There is, as yet, no evidence for over-development of groundwater due to irrigation. Neither are
adverse effects on water levels in village water supply wells due to groundwater pumping for irrigadon
commonly reported. Nevertheless, there is a possibility in the future that overdraft could occur in some
areas if groundwater development for irrigation is not properly regulated.



-98 -                              Anne 2
Recent Actions in East Jav4 rovince
6.  The East Java Governor's pecree No. 700 of August 1992 and the related PRIS Decn
Technical l;Quida=n for {3rolladwatr (lnigation) Management are intended to rationalize the provincial
role in groundwater irrigation management. The Governor's Decree gives to PRIS the responsibility
for monitoring and evaluation of groundwater resources and for providing technical advice to the
Governor's office with respect to groundwater regulation and issuance of licenses. Thus, the Decree
clearly divides responsibility for groundwater irigation development between the P2AT (given
responsibility fro  the planning stage through to completion of the two years of O&M support after a
facility is comssioned) and PRIS (which will be responsible for long-term support after P2AT
completes its task).
7.  The East Java PRIS has recognized that these new responsibilities have requirements that are
outside its previous experience, particularly with regard to the groundwater monitoring and evaluation
aspects of the Governor's Decree. The PRIS has also recognized that it would: (a) require a
specialized unit with qualified staff, facilities and equipment to undertake and sustain the regulatory
assistance mandate; and (b) be necessary to draw on P2AT experience and resources during a transition
period before fully assuming responsibility for the newly mandated tasks.
Acdtons under the Proect
8.  It is beyond the scope of the proposed project to attempt improvements to the situation with
regard to groundwater regulation in the urban areas. Nevertheless, the intentions of the groundwater
regulations are correct and should be supported so far as is possible. Routine actions which could be
undertaken include:
(a) avoid obvious risks of over-development through scrutiny of the records of existing irrigation
weils in a development area as part of the site selection process; and
(b) take due account of the possibility of adverse impacts of project wells on village water supply
wells (providing water supply, when necessary, from project wells, as planned under the
project if there are any adverse effects).
9.  The project would support the initiatives taken in East Java under the Govemoes
Decree No.700 With regard to groundwater resource monitoring and evaluation, the project would:
(a)  strengthen the water level monitoring networks in groundwater irrigation areas of East Java
by provision of additional observation wells equipped with automatic water level recorders;
(b) provide equipment and materials to enable water quality monitorng;
(c) provide specialized training to selected engineers from the PRIS staff in the techniques of
groundwater monitoring and evaluation; and
(d) provide consultancy sevices to assist with the work.
10. The initiatives to be undertaken in East Java would be used as a model for actions in other
provinces with significant groundwater development. A project objective would be to develop, test and
demonstrate appropriate arrangements in East Java to enable lessons learned to be utilized in other
pjfject provinces. In anticipation of this, the project would provide for water level monitoring
networks, water quality monitonrng equipment, and training of key staff in groundwater resource
monitoring and evaluation for each of the project provinces, if requested. The actual program in each
project provinces would be confmed during the project annual review process.



-99-                              AmI
GROUNDWATER D 
Brigion Water Ruwki
Intmduction
1.      The subproject areas are distributed in several islands of Indonesia. Individually, they
experience a wide variety of climatic conditions, and the soils range frm light texture with high
drainage characteristics to heavy texture with impeded drainage. However medium to heavy
textured soils predominate in the totality of the project area. Reflecting the above variability of
climatic and soil conditions, there is a large variety of crop options which can be grown with
irrigation, though the options may be reduced if markets are not readily available, pariicularly for
some vegetable crops. The preferred wet season crop is rice where soil conditions re at all
suitable. Notable exctions to this rice-dominated wet season cropping occur in parts of Lombok,
some areas in the vicinihy of Palu in Central Sulawesi, and around Rumbia in Lampung, all of
which have light, highly drained soils coupled with relatively deep water tables.
2.      Though cultivation of rice during the dry season is possible with irrigation in most
subproject areas, excepting those with adverse soil conditons, the iiaion water demands of rice
in the dry season are high. For this reason, water supplies provided by the groundwater facilities
ave not been sized t,o support dry season rice cropping over their total command areas. Moreover,
examination of exisung tubewell rgatdon operaions (for example in East Java) shows that many
farmers do not grow dry season rice, preferring to have more intensive cover of palawija crops
because of their lowe water demands. Therefore, for some subproject areas, the inigation water
demands have been estimated on the basis of cropping pattems with 100 pernt cover of paddy in
the wet season and 75-95 percent cover of palawija crops during the first and second dry crop
seasons. in some parts of Java and Sumatra where the rainfall is sufficient to attempt a second nce
crop, a partial cover of paddy is assumed during the first dry season. For exceptional axeas, such
as Lombok, a cropping sequence dominated by palawija crops has been used.
onai of Udid Requireent
3.      The crop irrigation water requirements have been derived or extrapolated for the various
subproject locaions from existing studies (prepared by consultants). All studies use essentially the
sae methodology for their water requirement calculations. For defining  water rwaIremnts
for facility design purposes, the effective rainfall from the 80 percent pbable rainfal in each half-
monthly period has been estimated. The evapotranspiration (El) of the crop has then been
calculated using the Modified Penman method for the esfimation of potential evapotranspiration
(ETo) with an appropriate crop coefficient (Kc) to reflect such crop charactenstics as stage of
ganth etc. This provides an estimate of a crop water requirement at the plant. This requirement is
then adjusted to take account of the cropping pattern and intensity, and fialy of the efficiency of
the irigaton water delivery and application system. The result provides an esdmate of the water
demand in each half-monthly period at the well head and the peak half-monthly water demand.
Similar calculations have been made using the S0 percent probable rainfall for each half-monthly
period to derive an ektimate of wat requirements n the average rainfill year for use in economic
analyses (para 6).
4.      The above exercise is carried out to define the water requirements at the well head for the
subproject areas and does so with ronable accuracy. However, as individual calculations have
not been made for all subproject areas, or for the plethora of cropping patterns which are pcssible
and could emerge, the water rquirements are to ths degree indicadve.



-100-                               Annex 
Pago 2
5.      C    m    ad Field Appication EM*=y. The planned irigation facilities will have
buried PVC pipe conveyance systems with each turnout serving about 1.0 ha. The piped sections
would have no losses attributable to leakage if the distribution systems are properly constructed,
although most of the alfalfa valves have at least slight leaks when closed. Thus, most of the losses
will occur in the earth channel conveyances from the outlet valves to the fields and from on-field
applications. A conveyance efficiency of 90 percent has been selected for rice cultivaton in the wet
season with an appropriate allowance for deep percolation losses to account for field application
efficiency. The combined conveyance and field efficiency with palawija crops has be ,n taken as 60
percent.
6.      Ewrg&p Re uixen . Effective rainfall conditions of the 80 percent probable rainfall
year are used to calculate irrigation requirements for sizing the tubewell facilities. However, the
water demand based on this situation cannot be used to estimate the pumping requirements of the
facilities for use in the project economic analyses. For such analyses, puirrping requirements to
meet crop water deficits under average rainfall conditions are more appropriate. Table 1 shows
monthly pumping requirements to meet the irrigation demands of the selected cropping patterns for
typical subproject areas in the project provinces under the average and 80 percent probable rainfall
conditions. The pumping requirements are expressed as mean daily pumping hours in each month
with an assumed water duty of 1.0 sec/a at the well head. The table shows that average daily
pumping requirements under average rainfall conditions only rarely exceed 18 hours/day in any
month in any project province. Moreover, the average daily pumping requirement does not exceed
22 hours/day in any month in any pkovince under more extreme conditions of 80 percent probable
rainfalls
7.     It should be noted that calculations of crop water requirements based on the Modified
Penman formula appear to produce high estimates in Indonesian conditions. There is no evidence
from existing tubewells that farmers actually apply water in the quantities indicated by Penman
calculations. Many existing tubewells appear to operate for substantially less hours than assumed in
the design and the crop yields and cropping intensities obtained by many farmers are not indicative
Of serious irrigation water deficits. It may, therefore, be assumed that the design water duty of 1.0
I/sec/ha is conservative except in for occasional conditions of extreme drought. Indeed, experience
may show that the tubewell facilities could be designed with a lower water duty, implying that
command areas could be expanded.
8.     It is recommended that the performance of existing tubewell systems be monitored and
evaluated to establish if fte project design assumpdons, in particular the design water duty, can be
modified to make the investments more economical and sociaUy beneficial. Such a study should be
given priority by the project consultants so that any lessons learned can be incorporated in future
work programs. The study would critically examine what farming activity, or cropping pattern
choice, contributes most to the water demand (and thus pumping hour peaks). Once the key
determinants have been identified, the inrigation practices of existing tubewell farmers should be
monitored and evaluated. It will then be possible to identify what changes in the design criteria are
acceptable and would have the most impact on reduction of costs per unit area served and the related
increase in benefits. Any potential increase in benefits would be achieved by expanding the
command area per unit volume of water delivered at the tubewelL



IDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENr PROJECT
Pumping Hous in Selded PRovic and Subojc An=
amP} MQY   1E £                                     Ea   mm   AI   mu   amN   Al                                            Q    M
AvpDdlyPrg  i Moh                                                                                   Peg
hiiuaM                                                                                                                                                      (4)      C.
Us"         IA   4.7  3    7J4           65   52  9D 0.0 0.0.0   43    9.1  13S   183 31.   1"   19.0  1"   18J  18    20A   130   17                      13       21I
Subays    5.4  103   5.1  11 J     O   0.4 0  0   S    0.0  0.0  0.0  4.   6   12.  14  173   152   16.8  1S.1  15.7  I16.   18.2   1.            .     6        N1
D8e         7.A 4     74     65 25 5 J   62   9J0.8    0.0  33   .   33  4.2 7      .     13    1.        . 161 J82   I"    1 . "         714 616.9    18D"         18.?
Wmm          U.410*3.7   793. 5   *             11 9.  t J   Z9 Q0  5.0  0.0 5    9A  13.9  162  19.8  15.   17    146  15.0  8.   18.7  146   I"9           "       19.D
Lebek        14 73 1 5       11.0.013    0.0  5.   7.   1s5  113              I U   15.6 13A3 17J  12.0 12.7  2M  127 129  3iA  15D   15.7    15D                  1J7
Snmbw       109 13J  4.7   9    3.9   9.2  7.1  13  5.9  O1 0               84       2.75 .69 S913    17.7   vJ 2     i   44145   15D   It.  19J            M.7      203
Tio 1r II  12.9  4.7  9A   1            92   7.1  163  5.9  IOJ   3.7   77   1.3  42   .1  11.9  15.7   8    12.  132  12.6  132   1U    1.7   15.7               lad4
L iwul    IA   4.7  33   7J  46  65   S2  9.0                   O 00 0.0   3.7   79 14.0  1.1 21   16.9  19.4  165  182  18 320.               23   17.2   18Z5      2.
C            9D   10J  17A  18.7  17.7  19.7  13A  15.9  31   4.6  42   6    1U  165  14.0 J13   7.1   Z7   SA   9.9  1"0   15  8. 92                 6    P.7      19.7
ShIai~  Q109  13.   4.7  91   40    92   7.1  16.3  5.9  IOJ  6.0  10.0  5.1  8U   112  14.9  17.5  2VJ   134  142  145   15J   17.1  1J1    17.5                    2
S            .9 113 5D  92 52 83 1 O 1410  OA  S 0.0 6   23 .3162 t8.9&1171                                              15118.0  1.7"      1 J .I  16   1     18 .7
5.6  103   5.1  114  0.0   0.0   00   6.0  0.0  0.0  00   4.0  6.  12.4  14.6  173   152  16.8  15.1  15.7  16.1  14    129   16.2    6.J               182
Vmimin   5.6  10.    5.1  114  QO   0.0  0.   51   0.0   O.0  SJ  OD 8.6  14.6  14.7  18.0  1D   16.4  15.1  15.7  11 6                  1 S3  129   16    I.        18.
1:im                                                                                                                                      Awaap           171A   192
(O) Tbepmplng_bioquunm bedos awel beadw ts dy ci 1.0 1eU
O() C   ww    quinmans se bued an modified Plewwas  1aeei wi appaoitna emp coeffi ALt
(a) T-ijalit sw  =qzamt Wm accoant of effccah9ewranf-l sad arned  nigsa efic cieaw
(d) Tb. fWitW clm  U  ih  nt s         tea    d iy  dP i yg  ppim    th avge day raia            I
(O)Feeel upojeci rn  h1umu   nhbwsmmni  ne  0   rbdemealcnhaa  reaoni  odiais



-103-                         Annex 9
GROUNDWAME DEVEOPbMNT PROJCI (GWDP)
Indigated AgicultuLr Develnt
BackgmuAd
1  At present, groundwater irrigation development has been mainly resticted to providing an
irrigation service and assisting farmers in the setting up of water user associadons (WUAs) to manage
completed works. However, achievement of project benefits depends on all farners makdng the
transition frm rainfed to intensive irrigated agriculture. This requires intensive and specialized
extension support which is substantially different from that provided by existin agrcultural extension
services. The transition period presents a risk for fanners, since it requires adoption of new cultural
practices and the larger investments in production inputs for irrigated agriculture.
2.  Ag& ul om   Obieyes. Government has proposed an agricultural development
(AD) activity to support development of groundwater irrigation . The activity would be implemented
under the technical guidance of Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) at national level, with provincial
agcultural services (PRAS) providing direct support to farme;s and farmer groups. The main
objective of the AD component would be to assist the farmers in the transition from rainfed to irrigated
agriculture. Specific project objectives would include,: (a) strengthening of provincial agricultural
agencies responsible for project impact areas, particularly, the extension services; (b) training of
farmers in iridgation pracces and irgated agriculture; (c) encouragement of crop diversification; and
(d) assistance in provision of production inputs and development of specialized markets. Additional
obcives would be to develop secondary income opportunities (i.e., irrigation of house gardens) and
to enhance of the role of women in agricultural development.
Ag fultuial D=l0flL  Activities
3.  To achieve the above objectives, the project would support the following AD activities: (a)
MOA/PRAS participation in the project planning process; (b) formulation of a "location specific"
agricultural development plan for individual tubewells, or clusters of wells; (c) provision of intensive
assistance. and extension services to the farmers during the first period of tubewell operation; (f)
support for irrigated home gardening, (g) support of other activities to enhance the role of women in
irrigated agricultume; and (f) monitoring and evaluation of agricultural impact These activities would
be applied to new groundwater areas under the project, but may also benefit existing tubewells where
agricultural production has been less than expected. In addition, MOA/PRAS would undertake a pilot
promotion of STWs, where technically feasible, as a possible alternative to larger tubewell systems
implemented by DGWRD/PAT. These AD activities are described below.
4.  I    _=ion   Ariw1A uumlPln.  For each tubewell system, or cluster of wells, a location
sPecfc agriculturd plan would be drawn-up as integral part of the general development process. The
activity would be caried out intensively by the PRAS agricultural team in coordination with the P2AT
technical staff. The tasks would include: (a) assessment of the specific site agricultural potential; (b)
definition of the possible cropping patterns; (c) planning and scheduling of the extension activities and
involvement of other PRAS agencies; and (d) planning for farmers' trAning (including arrangements
for visits to existing tubewells). For each area, the design of the agriculturl plan would be carried out
duing the preparion and the implementation phases of the tubewell development process (Annex 4).
5.  S5al1xnsign S e. This activity represents the core of the agricultural development
component and would be carried out during the first two years after commissioning of a tubewell
system, or clusters of wells. Specialized PRAS staff would assist farmers by demonstrations of
improved crop varieties and high-value crops. There would also be demonstrations of on-field water
management techniques and other agricultural practices, including ferdlizers, pest control, post-harvest
pocessing and storage. In addition, PRAS staff would advise on crop diversification, specialized
mas4r.tc . sett.nn of onneadtives and monitoring and evaluation of agricultural production



- 104-*A 
indicators. The on-going process could result in revisions of the agricultural development plans
envisaged at the planning and design stage for a tubewell. ITe special extension input would generally
only be available during the transition stage as farmers move from rainfedl to irrigated agriculture.
Thus, an additional task during this transition s"ge, would be to train existing PPLs covering the
tubewell impact areas so that they would be able to condnue the extension support after completion of
the development phase.
6.  Inputs and Marketine. The transition from r4infed to irrigated agriculture would require new or
increased supplies of productions inputs. Moreover, new marketing challenges would develop. An
important AD task would be to provide advice and support for project beneficiaries in these
development aspects, primrily through drawing on the existing resources of agencies within PRAS
which are responsible for these special services.
7.  Hose GWrdn Develgy=    Development of agricultural opportunities within house conpound
areas through provision of irrigation and agricultural support services would be promoted unde. the
project. APrograms would be tested and demonstrated on a pilot basis and expanded if justified. The
objective would be to develop secondary incomes, particularly for the landless and those families with
land holdings which are too small >t provide a viable income. The opportunities to be exploited would
include horticulture, niini fish ponds, and eel ponds. An important advantage of undertaking these
Programs within house compounds would be f ease of providing security of the high value produce.
The project would provide technical advice, i. 'al input packages to minimize the risks of the new
ventures, and encouragement of poor families to participate, and assistance for marketing. Inportnt
beneficiaries of the houseyard irrigation compornent are expected to be women.
8. Women-in-Development CWIIY. A basic objective would be to encourage and enhance the role
of women in the project process (Annex 12). Thus, the agricultural development plans for eachi
tubewell development would be decided with full participation of the women's groups to be served.
To achieve this objective, the organization and training of women's groups would be facilitated using
field level staff provided to develop WUAs, in conjunction with other agencies involved in organizing
WID activities at village level. Project staff would coordinate with groups promoting non-formal
education to assess whether and how an income generating activity could be used as course material in
their programs. At village level, existing PKK c ganizations would be involved in any WID activity.
9.  Monitoring andEvaluation CU&EM. The M&E of agricultural performance of the project would
be undertaken by PRAS. In most provinces, this would mean strengthening the existing M&E
process within the PRAS to enable agricultural impact of groundwater development to be separated out
from general provincial performance data. Thus, agricultural performance data for groundwater
irrigation facilities would be collected and analyzed foUowing standard formats so that inigation and
agricultural data are compatible. This would enable irrigated agricultural impact to be evaluated in a
systematic manner. To achieve this objective, the M&E units within PRAS would need to be
strengtheied and given sufficient resources and budgetary provisions to undertake their new mandated
task.
All Development Qonents
10. To achieve the above objectives, the project would support: (a) additional special extension
workers for training of WUAs and contact farmers; (b) crop demonstrations; (c) institutional
strengthening including additional project staff, equipment and transportation; (d) technical assistance,
including training of PRAS staff; (e) monitoring and evaluation of agricultural activities; (f) WID
activities; (g) a pilot STW program; and (h) special studies and surveys.
11. ExnSi  S11ppZO. The project would finance about 50 irrigated agricultural development
workers (TADWs), together with related   ation and equipment. The IADWs would be full time
field wotkers to assist farmers in the transition from rainfed to ingated agriculture. The additional
IADWs would differ from existing PPLs because they would be specially trained in the agricultural
needs of fams using groundwater rigation and would only look after tubewell command areas. An
IADW would. (a) advise farmers on field water managemenw (b) WUAs on water allocation to ensure



-105-                           Annex 9
Page 3
timely, reliable and equitable irrigation supply; (c) cropping pattern selection and input applications;
and (c) post-harvest storage and naketing of agricultural produce. IADWs would work under the
PRAS staff in close collaboration with PPS and PPL staff at Kabupaten level, and the existing PPLs in
the area.
12. Crop Demonstration. Project demonstration plots are widely used by the MOAJPRAS in
Indonesia to show fanners new practices associated with inigated agriculture (water management, land
development, input application, new crops, etc.). The project demonstrations would follow the general
methodology and process used by MOA/PRAS with about 1,000 demonstration plots (one per 40 ha
for Java and one per 20 ha for the Outer Islands). Selected farmers would be given technical
guidance, inputs and support for land development to cover demonstrations on about 0.5 ha for two
years ( 'ur to six crop seasons). Labor would be provided by farmers who would own the crop
production. In addition, seine 1,000 demonstration plots for house garden agriculture would be also
implemented following the same methodology with one or two demonstations per village.
13. Institutional Strengtieing. Fun - swouldbe made available by theprject to strengthen existing
PRAS structure, namely the TGA and PPS at kabupaten level, the Mantri-tarm and the existing PPL of
areas developed with groundwater resources. The support received by the existing PRAS staff is
important to help ensure project success and sustainability since after the intensive assistance, each
tubewell would continue to receive the routine PRAS support. The existing staff would be trained in
irigated agriculture using groundwater through specific programs and by on-the-job training by the
consultants employed under the project.
14. Taining of Contact Fanms. Farmers training would be implemented by applying current MOA
methodology and programs, which is based on contact fanners. Some 1,000 contact farmers (five per
tubewell at the average) would be trained by the MOA staff and consultants during the initial stages of
groundwater development and in the first and third year after facilities are commissioned.
15. Technical Assistance. The project would finance consultant services to generally assist the
MOAYPRAS and to train key senior project staff. The services would be joint venture of foreign and
national consultants as detailed in Annex 13. The foreign consultants would include a senior
agronomist, supported by short-term specialists in other disciplines (agro-economics, institutions,
credit and marketing, etc.) which may be needed during the project period. National consultants
would provide irrigation agronomists, agro-economists and insdtutional specalists with short-term
specialist support. In addition, national consultants would provide a specialist for support of WID
activities.
16. M&F. Acdvties. The project would support M&E activities by financing the employment of
about 18 data processors to work with the DLRD within PRAS at provincial level. They would
process field data on the agricultural performance of the groundwater irrigation facilities, collected by
the field staff of PRAS and P2AT. Data to be processed would include pumping hours, cropping
patterns, cropping intensities, crop yields, and input quantities and prices. The data processing staff
would be temporarily employed by the PRAS for the project period.
17. WLD ActAtivids. The project provides lump sum funding for WID activities for a range of project
related activities (Annex 12). Specific programs to be decided once activities have been tested and
demonstrated on a pilot basis. Project support related to the role of women would be administrated
and coordinated through a small unit within the Directorate of Extension (MOA) at national level, with
PRAS undertaking similar responsibilities at the provincial level.
18. AWiculwal $tudies. Agriculturl studies would be carried out to investigate specific agricultural
and socio-economic issues related to groundwater development. An initial study required would be a
baseline survey to establish the 'presen( situation and pioritize the AD acdvities to be tackled under
the proposed project. Another study would be a pilot program of shallow tubewell development
through prlovision of about 230 pump sets and shallow boreholes in areas with suitable groundwater
conditions and where the beneficiaries cannot afford these installations thiemselves.



-106-                             n
Page 1
Instiutonal Awect of (roundwater DM&kd=pm
1.   This Annex desctibes some of the more important project institutional aspects whicii should
be given specal attention ding project implementation. In this respect, the institutional setting
draws primarily on the existing stuaion in project provinces, but also includes experience from
other provinces (imarily Central Java) where extensive Government promoted and/or purely
private sector developmnt of£groundwater has occurd
Rolesof thie Ed= ndlPublic S
2.   Developwent of groundwater for irrigation using tubewells equipped with motor powered
pump units was first initiated on a large scale in East Java by the public sector in the 1970s. The
development was based on deep tubewels designed for medium to high discharges when equipped
with vertical shaft turbine pumps powered by diesel engines. As first conceived, the groundwater
supplies were intended to supplement surface water in irrigation commands where there were
surface water deficits in the dry season. The surface and groundwater supplies were delivered
through common channels, but the management difficulties of these supplementary irrigation
facilities soon became apparent. It was decided therefore that public sector groundwater
development would be based on one source of irrigation supply to defined command areas and not
conjunctive use. With increasing experience, it was also decided that public sector constructed
groundwater facilities would be handed over to water users associations (WUAs) for management.
3.   This mix of public and private sect involvement in groundwater development persists to
the present. Basicaly, planning, design and constructon of the facilities are the responsibility of
the public setor agenc (P2A1), and after facilites are commissioned, they are handed over to their
WUAs for manaeent, albeit with goverment suppor of initial O&M (fuel supply, payment of
pUM  Opeo  salar and some maintenance assistance for the first two years). This mode of
development has been applied in Java and, to a lesser extent, in some provinces of the Outer
Islands. The proposed project would strengthen this broad approach by ensuring full community
pardcipation by early establishment of WUAs so that they can be involved in planning, and design
of facilities (Annex 4).
4.   The private sector has a long history of groundwater development for irrigation using
shallow hand-dug wells with the water being manually abstracted. This mode persists to this day
for serving smal areas, often with vegetable cropping, as for example in the Sape and Keli areas of
Sumbawa. By the late 1970s, the private sector on Java had devised a technology for constructing
shallow tubewells (STW) for use with low dischare centrifugal pumps powered by light oil or
diesel engines. However, the technology is only suitable for areas where shallow aquifers can be
reached by the well construction method and where pumping water levels are within suction depth.
Nevertheless, the mode of development has expanded rapidly on Java. The development occurs
with several variations. Individuals own a well and pump for their own use and often sell water to
farmers on adjacent lands. Other farmers own only the well and hire the pump unit. Pumps are
purchased directly from private dealers, routine servicing is by the owners, and repairs are carried
out in local machine shops. Public involvement has been minimal, and institutional credit has
rrely been used for purchase of facilities1'.
/ V Ie present cost of =m   credt fbr rua development, attacg  erests rates of 25-30%, is too high to
atm potpdolaaeeu



- 107 -                         Annex,I
Public Sector D0MveQ=Men Agencies
5.      veral technical agencies are directly involved in public groundwater irrigation
develc -ti nent The subdirectorate office of Pengembangan Air Tanah (PA1) within the Directorate
of brigtion II (DOI-11) of the Drectorate Generl of Water Resources Development (DOWRD) in
the Ministry of PubLic Works (MPW) helps plan, coordinate and provide technical backstopping to
provincial groundwater irrigaton project offices known as P2AT. The centrally funded project
offices are being integrated into the Provincial Water Resources Development Services (PRIS) of
the Provincial Public Works offices in several provinces. While all but one of the project area
provinces have established P2AT offices, their capabilities vary widely. East Java has the best
established and most extensive organization with a provincial office in Surabaya and four subproject
offices. The Lombok office is also well established The P2AT office for North Sumatra has yet to
be established, and the offices in the remaining provinces are quite small at present.
6.   In theory, the provincial level P2AT offices are coordinated for local operations by the
Kantor Wiliyah Propinsi (provincial wings of the central public works agency), but in practice,
P2AT offices operate primarily under direct guidance of the PAT. P2AT takes responsibility for
implementing public groundwater irrigation projects, and presently assumes responsibility for
supervising scheme operations after construction, a role similar to that exercised by PRIS for
surface water irrigation systems.
7 .   JIrri dga  cultura elment. Agricultural extension is supposed to be provided
through the extension services within PRAS. The PRAS extension service involves a tiered
hiarchy of personnel extending down to extension agents operating out of subdistrict (kecamatan)
offices, each servicing some 300-1000 ha of agricultural land. In prctice, the role of the extension
services in groundwater irrigation development is limited for a variety of reasons, including budget
constraints, lack of interagency coordination, competing extension schedules, and personnel
limitations. The project makes provision to address this shortcoming (Annex 9).
8.   The project would be assisted and advised by a National Project Coordination Committee
(NPCC) led by BAPPENAS and including representatives from the Ministry of Public Works
(MPW), the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), and the Ministry of Home Affairs (MOHA). The
coordination objectives would address issues related to: (a) policy review; (b) interagency
coordination; (c) overall physical, financial and impact of project implementafion; and (d) advice and
guidance on any matters pertining to the project. The NPCC would also liaise with other line
agencies that have relevance to the project to inform and coordinate, as required, on the activities of
the project. The lead implementing agency (PAT) would provide the secretariat to the NPCC. At
provincial level, the project would be assisted by a Provincial Project Coordination Committee
(PPCC) led by each BAPPEDA and include representatives from the PRIS and PRAS and the other
concerned agencies of provincial government.
9.        1.   Local govemments at provincial, kabupaten (district) and kecamatan
levels are responsible for coordinating concerned agencies involved in groundwater irrigation
development and scheme operations. The primary mechanisms are Interagency Irrigation
Committe  (TIC) at each government level, of which the most strategic is the district committee
under the aegis of the Provincial Officer (Bupati). The llCs vary widely in their degree of activity
and prformance, and their structue, at present, is almost endrely oriented to planning operations of
surface water irrigadon schemes. This deficiency would be addressed under the project.
10.  At the provincial level, regular coordination meetings would be held to identify roles and
responibilities, prpare yearly budget allocations for each area of operational support, and make
provision of staff time, during the annual planning and programming process. The project



-108-Ane 
Par& 3
management units would issue operational guidelines to the field offices to ensure that this
coordination and interaction becomes part of the project development process.
CommnJtv Parlidgtion
11. The basic policies required to obtain genuine community participation have already been
incorporated in the developmental framework of the Gcvernment and are expressed in various
Government Decrees, in particular, those related to WUAs (para 2, Annex 11). The main principles
include: (a) sustaining efective performance of services through genuine community participation
in the project planning, design, construction, operation and maintenance processes; (b) integration
of the needs and perceptions of women and other disadvantaged groups into the development
process; (c) strengthening program flexibility and responsiveness to obtain the necessary degree of
community participation; (d) efficient training and support for beneficiary community groups; and
(e) collaboration with other Government agencies and non government organizations working in
rural programs.
12.  The project would thus adopt a participatory development approach (Annex 4), primarily to
facilitate the process by which the farmers and other users of groundwater assume their
responsibilities in the development process. The implementing agencies will therefore need to
orient and train their staff in participatory development techniques and procedures. Project staff and
field workers well versed in such techniques would be one of the keys to the project's success.
1-3.  PEDjg&t Staffing at Field Level for Conmnuitv dQa    The project would finance the
additional field workers to assist with the community participation aspects of the groundwater and
agricultural development components. This would be necessary because of the specalized needs of
groundwater irrigation, the more intensive and higher level of service required, and the need for
more effective monitoring and evaluation, The number of field workers would vary according to
the size of the subproject area, geographic location, and the population to be served. As incentives,
field workers would be provided with an honoraria and a monthly travel allowance. The field
workers would be recruited at least three to six months before the start of the subproject
development process so that they can be given adequate initial tanng and orientation.
14.  ParLjcipa=  TrainingLStaff Deelopment. The project would assist in upgrading the
content, fornat and methodology of exisdng in-service and farmerlWUA training to increase its
impact and staff effecdiveness. Training would be project specific and primarily to improve the
quality of field staff, such as trainers of tubewell operators and staff responsible for setting up and
organizing WUAs and pre paration of agricultural development plans. Standardized training
programs would be designed to be incorporated in the participatoxy process.
15.  The main training objective would be to enhance the capability of the famrers to understand
the planning and design options and their role and responsibilities inherent in the development
process. To achieve th-, training would be carefully planned and suitable materials developed
(with assistance from the consultants) at the national level. The training package would be an
'training action plan', developed to udlize data collected from field surveys of training needs. The
package would detail, inter alia: (a) job descriptions and specific responsibilities of project field
staff; and (b) methodologies and data collection requirements to monitor and evaluate of the impact
of training sessions. The training material and procedures would be revised, on a needs basis, to
reflect any lessons learned from completed works (and existing tubewell systems). All training
mateial would be available in the local larguage of the project impact areas.



-109-                               An= 11
~~~~LUS~~~~~~~~~~tAPgr 
Jnn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u~~~~~~~~aPg 
uONESI
QROUNDWATE DEVELOP=NI PEON=I
N= eUser AsMd&tLQDos
1.    Basic project objectives are to minimize public sector support and encourage and enable
effective community participation in all phases of the groundwater development process. Thus,
Government financed and constructed groundwater facilities would be handed over to established
fanmers groups for management immediately after completion of construction, albeit with some initial
O&M support from Government. An essential activity to achieve this turn over the tubewell facilities
will be to set up, train and support water user associations (WUAs) which are able to manage and
sustain the tubewel} systems.
2.   Legal provisions regarding WUAs reflect both national and provincial legislation. The 1982
Presidential Instruction No. 2 on Establishing Water User Farmer Associations prescribes
responsibilities for establishing WUAs to the Mnistries of Public Work, Home Affairs and
Agriculture. The instruction serves as a model for provincial WUA decrees, and all project
provinces have established decrees which define the legal framework "or WUA organization,
development and operation.
3.   These provincial decrees grant WUAs the right and responsibility to privately develop and
manage locally based water sources (springs, wells, seasonal surface waters) or to manage state
owned irrigation systems, in part or entirely. Although legal ownership of the facilities remains with
Government, WUAs are given the rights to: elect their own officials; establish locally adapt bylaws
as adjuncts to model WUA constitutions; own property; and to raise their own revenues, mcluding
collectig of irrigation fees. In 1992, the M(5HA issued a Regulation No. 12 which, inter alia,
establishes the WUAs as legal entities with contractual rights under national law. This new
Reguladon should greatly strengthen the status of WUAs since it will enable WUAs to open bank
accounts in the association's name and thus enable WUAs to have access to credit facilities.
Opsradiof FtaciHties
4.    Actual rules of operation are set by individual WUAs to suit the specific needs and
perceptions of their members. In some cases, P2AT offices have attempted to establish day/block
systems of rotational water supply. These were originally devised for groundwater irrigation
facilities with large comand areas and commensurably large numbers of beneficiaries in East Java.
Such systems are required during peak demand periods if all beneficiaries are to be served in an
equitable and timely manner. However, the system is often violated (and may not be str.iuTy
necessary) in off-peak periods when facilities tend to be operated essentially on-demand. Operations
on Madura, where tobacco is mono-cpped in season, present a special case whereby the entire
command is served daily into small storage reservoirs from where the tobacco plants are irrigated by
hand. It is evident that operating procedures for the irrigation facilities must remain a decision of the
concemed WUAs, though advice is often necessary from either P2AT or the agricultural extension
service.
5.     1 1MiQfl R1sKcPig. If WUAs are to be fully accountable for facility operations, it
is essential that proper records ae maintained of pump operation hours, fuel deliveries and
consumption, deliveries of water to individual beneficiaries, routine and special maintenance
expenditures, and facity serviceability. Generally, the task of keeping such records rests with the
tubewell operator, though a system of counter-checking by a WUA official is necessary. The quality



- 110-                            Annex II
Page, 2
of operational record keeping are extremely variable. To address this shortcoming, standard
procedures and books would be devised by the project to provide full, accurate and easily checked
operational records for groundwater irrigation facilities established under the project. An essential
requirement of this record keeping effort would be that tubewell operators employed by WUAs are
literate and reasonably numerate.
6.    Water ChaTs and Cost Rhoev The level and form of water charges to be made to the
beneficiaries for the irrigation service are decided by the WUAs of individual facilities, as are the
conditions of payment of the charges. Advice on setting charges is typically provided by concerned
P2AT officials when the WUAs are established. In most cases, water charges are volumetrically
based, relating to time of pump operation to srvice an individual beneficiary. Water charges are
normally set to cover routine O&M costs (fuel, operator etc.), and repairs to equipment. They
should also cover eventual replacement cost of at least the pump set. During the inidal two year
period of O&M support from Government, water charges are made so that WUA q accumulate funds
to ensure their futwe financial viability. Repayment arrangements for water charges are the decision
of the concerned WUA and are variable. Some impose only a short grace period for payment of
dues and failure to pay is penalized by termination of the irrigation services. Other WUAs allow a
considerable grace period, often to the end of the crop season, which essendally constitutes an
internally operated credit system A/.
7.    Finance Accounting and Bank Accounts. In the past, different groundwater irrigation
development projects have proposed various systems of financial bookkeeping for WUAs. While
the required bookkeeping system should be simple, it should also be complete, transparent and easily
checked by association officials and members, and by Government officials responsible for
monitoring the project. An appropriate and standardized system of financial bookkeepmg would be
devised and extended, together with standard books, to WUAs established under the project.
8.    As WUAs accumulate funds that are, in effect, the common property of their members, it
may be necessary to establish bank accounts for the safe keeping and use of such funds. In some
cases, bank accounts have been opened in the name of the WUA. In other cases, accounts are held
in the joint names of WUA officials and require two or more signatures to carry out a transaction
involving a withdrawal of funds. Either of these arrangements would be appropriate for the banking
requirements of the WUAs to be established under the project.
Guidance forWUAs
9.    Muli-agency support for groundwater initiatives should be targeted at WUAs, since these are
the basic groupings of beneficiaries served by the project. This support can best be channeled
tdrough WUA guidance teams, as has occurred in Central Java. The guidance teams may have
differing membership and differing roles, depending on the hierarchical level.
10.   P oincial Committees Provincial groundwater irrigation WUA committees should include
multi-agency membership, comprising selected departments from the provincial Governors office,
BAPPEDA, PRIS-P2AT, Department of Agriculture (Extension; Water Management), Cipta Karya
(Domestic Water Supply), etc. Leadership could be vested in the Production Division of the
Govemors office, with the deputy leadership position going to BAPPEDA. Such comnittees could
meet twice a year, or as needed. The functions of the provincial committees should be directed to
general planmng and policy concerns, including supportive legislation/decrees, agricultural support
services, envirnmental issues, special provisions and dispensations for drilling permits, financial
policies, etc.
/ Examplos exist wheob a WUA uo aacunuad funds to provide other foms of production aedit to its menmers, and some
charge interest for this service



;   - 111 -                           hste 3Anp 1
1i.  KahaIten = fDig4tlQ Guidance TIams in groundwater irrigation should be compact.
comprising about five members, uicluding representation of the Bupati, BAPPEDA, Agriculture,
PRIS, and the ap  priate 2AT branch office. Such teams can exercise a mediating role between
provincial and subistrict levels, as well as monitoring/supervising functions. Official approvals of
WUAs are handled by Bupatis under existing Government procedures.
12.      ,ma (Sub-distdct           Intchaired by Camat, represent the strategic
locus of field level WUA backstopping activities. Beside the Camat, membership should compnse
the kecamatan agricultural representatives, lower-level PRIS staff, and P2AT branch offices. In
addition, WUA presidents may attend, when their direct interests are involved. The kecamatan
conittees, or their individual members, can play useful roles in site identification, WUA fonnation,
agricultural/water management extension, organizational growth, and basic monitoring. Where
WUA organizational problems arise, they also can have useful mediating functions. The subdistrict
commutees should meet according to regularized schedules as well as when specdal needs arise.
WUA Formation and OeainlSW"a Strategie
13.  Efforts to form viable WUAs in groundwater irrigation systems must be based on carefully
programmed strategies, sequenced with technical development activities, in which farmer
beneficiaries are consulted from the start. Such "participatory" strategies, if carefully scheduled and
adhered to, should not cause any delays in project implementaton and should improve the chances
hat newly formed WUAs become effective (Annex 4).
14.  Groundwater irrigadon WUAs have special technical, financial, and administrative needs that
must be addressed. Because groundwater systems are totally dependent upon the operation of their
pumping equipment, the availability of repair facilities are critical elements for developing farmer
confidence and foroptimizing performance. Likewise, the process of evolving sound financial and
management proceres, as well rganiozational growth, can benefit from external backstopping and
support
15.  The primary responsibility for promoting WUAs for groundwater facilities should be in the
hands of P2AT, backstopped by the agricultural extension agents. Special sub-professional "field
organizers" attached to the executing agency can assist this process, but participation by professional
staff will be necessary, particularly during early phases. WUA promotion/formation campaigns
would conlsist of the following sequence of actiities:
(a)  he Ca=ign1. Pre-camnaign meetings (prior to setting up a WUA) should be
undertaken in all sites identified for development, prior to the commencement of drilling.
Potential beneficiaries, farmer leaders and village officials, are invited to attend. Where
several well-sites are scheduled for individual villages, all such sites should be represented.
The purpose of the pre-campaigns is to explain project strategies and future farmer
obligations, and to secure commitment to operate and maintain schemes. Such pre-
campaigns play strategic roles in securing farmer commitment and to instill a sense of
participation, ownerip, and responsibility from the start.
(b) POnnal WUA  ntducio and Sys= Design Review   nce a tubewell drilling program
is successfully completed and potential sites are identified as technically viable, all farmers
in a proposed command area would be invited to attend a formal meeting to review project
strategies and schedules, and WUA organizational and management aspects. At this
meeting proposed system facility designs would be presented and reviewed.
(c)                                               . Following a period of informal
contacts to establish a consensus on potential leaders, formal meetings would be staged,
attended by all WUA farmer members, to appoint leaders, to formally establish the WUA,



-112 -                             AnnexI
and to establish its constitution. The timing of such fornation meetings should precede
commencement of WUA operations by some 1-3 months.
(d) Establishment of WUA Bylaw  Meetings to setup WUA by-laws usually occur just prior
to commencement of scheme operations, and again follow informal contacts with WUA
and village officials and key farmers. This meeting should follow completion of
distribution system construction and would be open to all the WUA membership.
(e)  WUA Officer Training WgIkshua Just prior to conmencement of WUA operations,
short (2-3 day) workshops on WUA organizational, administrative, and financial
management procedures are staged for all WUA officers. These workshops would
generally be conducted for several WUAs jointly to save staff resources. Training for
pump operators would also be conducted in six-day workshops.
16.  Post-Formaton WUA Operadnal Sport. Systematic programs of post-formation WUA
operational support are needed to cover a variety of aspects. These include plot level water
management, planning and management of cropping patterns and their water demands, irrigation
management including rotational schedules, improvement of skills of WUA officers in management
of finances and record keeping, establishment of WUA bank accounts, administration of operational
subsidies, and other forms of operational monitoring.
WUA Perfonn    Monitorng
17.   While operational monitoring covers a variety of facets, the WUA responsibilities include
recording, analysis and reporting of data on irrigation scheme performance. Such data would be
collected initially by pump operators and other WUA officials and recorded to standard format in
record books, primarily for the purpose of intemal WUA management and control. It would
therefore include records of cost recovery and finances. The data should be processed so that it can
be easily used and collated by field staff for use in their reports prepared for the sub-district oversight
committees and for P2AT. Operational data collected from groundwater irrigation schemes should
be designed to specifically meet performance monitoring objectives. In this respect, irrigation
performance data would need to be supplemented by agro-economic data on production costs and
crop returns collected in seasonal surveys. These data sets, should be checked on a sample basis by
government staff and processed and analyzed by the project M&E units within the P2ATs and
PRAS. Performance data should be made available to the respective PRIS for long term monitoring
records. The consultants would help to design and implement monitoring methodologies and tasks.
Servicing and R      of EQuipWnt
18.  Mechanisms need to be evolved to provide backstopping repair facilities for engine and pump
equipment. Pump operators would be trained to undertake minor servicing and repair of mechanical
equipment. By taking advantage of fuel subsidies provided by P2AT during the first two years of
operation, WUAs should be able to build up a capital reserve fund from irrigation fee collections for
use in funding equipment repair. The WUAs would be encouraged to keep any capital reserves in a
WUA bank account
19.  Firm arrangements need to be made to handle major repairs and breakdowns in a timely
manner, particularly if there are standing crops in the field. One option would be to adopt the
arrangements recently introduced in East Java with the PRIS to provide long term technical support
Provisions of post-procurement maintenance and servicing contract packages with equipment
dealers, as is planned in Central Java, is another option which should be further evaluated.



-113 -                            ALmnex 12
PagLI
INOWNESIA
GEOMNWATER DOQPMENM PROJEC
Il Role of Women in 2Grounft;X UCyIoMAt
BackgQnd
1.  Indonesia is one of the most culturally diverse countries in East Asia with almost 300 distinct
cultures. Different kinship systems (patrilineal, matrilineal and bilineal) determine land ownership.
The society is pluralistic and a strongly influenced by "ADAT (customary law), various religions
(Islam, Buddhism and Hinduism) and indigenous beliefs. The Government formally recognizes that
ownership, property rights, marriage and family and kinship relationships are regulated by ADAT.
In this respect, women's participation in most parts of Indonesia is not inhibited by high levels of
gender segregation which characteize many other parts of Asia
2.  Women have a right to inherit and own property, including agricultural land Javanese rural
women can inherit property, including sawah (paddy) land both under the Islamic law and customary
inheritance practices. The 'gono-gini' (customary Javanese marriage law) states that all property
acquired by the couple is considered joint property. Two recent surveys in East Java have reported
that some 25 percent and 17 percent of the land owners were women respectively. Traditionally
Indonesian women have a strong decision making role within the household and are involved in
water use and management. They handle money from sale of agricultural produce as well as off-
farm employment.
Women in Agigulme
3. Women in Indonesia play an important role in agriculture. They are involved production as
weJl as in production, processing, storage and marketing of secondary food crops and small animal
husbandry. However, their contribution is largely as unpaid family labor. Consequently, women
are not generally recognized as farmers for technical support and extension and insufficient attention
is paid to enhancing their role in agricultural productivity. The proportion of female labor in the
agricultural sector has increased as men move to non-agricultural employment opportunities in the
economy. In 1961, some 73 percent of the male labor force was employed in agriculture compared
to 69 percent of the female work force. By 1989, agricultural labor participation by males had
reduced to 56 percent compared to 57 percent for women.
4.  Since land holdings are small, most farmers rely on family labor for farming In some areas,
such as Java and Sumatra, small farmers rely heavily on exchange labor. Agriculture is practiced as
a community activity with groups of women undertaking tasks such as rice transplanting. While
land preparation and application of pesticide and fertilizer for paddy is done by men, transplanting
and weeding are typically done by females. However, recent surveys by the Directorate of
Extension (MOA) indicate that more women are becoming involved in handling and use of
pesticides.
5. There is an increasing demand on women's time and energy in areas with groundwater
development due to multiple cropping and intensive cultivation. On the other hand there are regions
like Palu, Mataram and Lombok where theree is a potential for involving women in economic
activities, preferably operating out of or near the homestead by udlizing GW faciliies.
6. The role of women becomes more important in areas where temporary male migration takes
place for off-farm employment. For example, in West Madura, extensive male migration reduces
available farm labor and strongly influences agricultural activities. Men temporarily migrate to
Surabaya, Jakarta and even Thlailand for work and arrange their travel to be available during land
preparation and harvesting of wet season paddy. In these situations, women left behind find it
difficult to meet the labor demands for increased cropping intensity made possible through irrigation.



-114-                             Anmex 12
7.  wg=  aTd he Ac           x3nsim Sevcs Te Directorate of Extension uses a training
and visit methodology to promote technology packages, which include seed, pesticide, ferilizer and,
in some cases, credit. These packages are designed centrally and thus may often not be fully relevant
to local situations. The key person in the extension system is the PPL (field extension worker) of
which about 10 percent (some 3,600) are women. Women are not formally excluded from access to
extension services, but the program has inherent gender biases. For example, a recent sample
survey (carried out under an IFAD financed project for training of farmers on surface irTigation
schemes) revealed that about 65 percent of women had never met the PPL and 50 percent of them did
not know his duties. One task of the PPL is to organize farmers into groups called 'lompok Tani',
many of which have very few women participants. Nevertheless, there are about 320,000
'Klompok Tani Wanita' (women's groups) in Indonesia, each with some 20 to 50 members. Their
activities and inpact are dependent on local initiative.
Leassos Leaed related to WID AM=ct of Agricutural DOMelg=met
8. A recent Bank discussion paper on WID in Indonesia I/concludes that, despite Government's
sound and well-focused strategy towards the involvement of women in development, the
Government, donors, and society will have to continue to work on a range of improvements if
women are to truly become equal partners. Improvements required include: social services and
infrastructure; employment and productivity; the institutional framework; and social and cultural
change. Several country reviews undertaken by the Bank have also reported that, in spite of the key
role that women play in irrigated agriculture, projects tend to overlook their interests. In recent
years, a number of irrigation projects have made attempts to address the issue of female farmers.
Assessments of these projects has indicated that the WID components have been an 'add on', almost
as an afterthought. A recent assessment of the FAO supported On-Farm Water Use and Water
Management Training and Development Project indicated that project documents had made no
reference to the role of women in agriculture, and in indirect reference, they were quoted negatively
as 'possible socio-econonic constraints to be evaluated'. The main lesson learned is that the role of
women should be integral element of the project design from the preparation state.
EmStrategy forWID
9. Aspects and activities related to the role of women would be an integral part of the project
planning and design and the participatory development process involving the local community. In
this respect, the proposed project would provide resources and be formulated to ensure women are
specifically reached and fully involved in all activities where they have a legidmate role. The project
strategy would address the following objectives:
(a) WID interventions would take into account location specific features related to socio-
cultural and agro-economic determinants. Planning would be based as far as possible on
available existing data to avoid duplicating the cost of carrying out detailed surveys.
Selected site data for monitoring and unpact assessment would, however, be collected.
(b) The WID focus would be directed on social benefits and increase agricultural productivity
of female fanners.
(c) Income generation activities would be designed to benefit from economy of scale by
developing a village as whole rather than a few households. Action programs would be
designed to have a demonstradon impact and catalyze further spread.
(d) WID related trining would include non-formal education and have sufficient flexibility to
reflect lessons learned as the project proceeds.
/ Ionesia Wome in Development - A Str  for Continued Progress, Es Asia and Pacific Regional
Studies, Country Dqm  , World Bank, April 1992.



-115-                           PAn=x12
(e) Care would be taken to include all female participants in the program and not limit
participation to land owners, since in Indonesia, the issue of how poor households get
access to project benefits is more significant than status issues related to women.
(f) Progress would be continuously monitored and evaluated to document lessons learned.
10. Special attention would be given to ensure fthat potential benefits to women are achieved.
Thus, the project would include: (a) reflection of gender issues in baseline surveys and proposals
for individual components; (b) inclusion of women issues in orientation and training activides of
local government and community leaders, project management and implementation staff, and
community based organization (CBO) members; (c) integrl involvement of women in CBO/WUA
arrangements for the planning, design, construction, O&M and monitoring of project schemes; and
(d) development of relevant socio-economic, skill and management training programs.
Acthon Pl
11. The project would focus on five key areas to enhance and encourage the role of women
including: (a) participation in groundwater use for domestic water supply; (b) irrigation of house
gardens; (c) participation in management of groundwater development as full members of WUAs; (d)
improved access to agncultural extension services; and (e) separately identified documentation and
dissemination of WID lessons learned.
12. Domestic Water Suppl. Low income women typically spend a significant amount of time
transporting water for a variety of household consumption and productive needs. Conveniently
located public taps offering a reliable source of water represent a time saving which can be applied to
ongoing or new productive and commercial activities. The domestic water supply component of the
project has been conceptualized and designed to meet these needs.
13. Houseard Irrigad2n. House gardens are found all over Indonesia though they are more
charcteristic of Java where the ecology has been supportive. Herbs, medicinal plants and fruits are
commonly grown. It is estimated that some 130,000 hectres are cultivated as house gardens in East
Java. The house garden area in Central Java was reported to average about 250 sq. meters. Banana
and coconut can be found in virtually all gardens with cassava is the most popular seasonal crop. In
addition, a minority of households grow vegetables in the house gardens and keep fowl, goats, and
pigs. Home garden activities are characterized by minimal inputs and by a low productivity. In
many areas, provision of irrigation supply would alleviate a substantial risk and greatly expand the
opportunities for productive enterprises. With irrigation assured, appropriate packages of seeds
would be distributed to project beneficiaries to sponsor improvements in house garden cultivation.
Thus, about 1,000 small scale demonstrations designed for house gardens would be organized and
advice made available on cultivation technology and marketing produce.
14. Women's Role in WUAs. The project would promote women's involvement in water user
associations (WUAs) for resource management and related activities. In order to vocalize women's
special needs in irrigation systems, WUAs would be encouraged to have a female member on the
WUA management committee. Moreover, if the land is owned by a female, she should be the
registered member and encouraged to participate in the WUA. In this respect, the customary pmctice
has been that female landowners have been represented by their husband or father. Recent agrarian
reforms by Government are encouraging provincial agencies to streamline registration and issue tides
for land in the name of both the husband and wife. The influence cf these reforms need to be taken
into consideration when forming WUAs.
15. Acest A uturalExSe . Recognizing the need to address issues related to
wOmen's poductivity in agriculture, the Replita IV formulated a policy for training women in
agrcultural sklls for fanning and use of appropriate technology for production, storge, processing
and marketing of agricultural produce. Progress in extending this training initiative has been slow,



- 116-                                .&flil§An 12
Page, 
primarily due to a general weakness in the agriculture extension services. The lower literacy of
women has also been pointed out as a problem in extension. There is therefore a need for a modified
approach to reach women by using non-fornal education techniques.
16. To address these shortcomings, training of PRAS extension staff would emphasize the need
and ways to encourage women's participation in groundwater development. Training material for
WIID project activities would be produced by the Directorate of Extension after a review of existing
material. Instructions issued to the involved subdivisions of PRAS would contain explicit reference
to women as being among key farners to be contacted and motivated. The WID focus group within
PRAS would be responsible for designing teaching material for use in the training programs. The
extension field staff would organize: (a) demonstration plots managed by women for training in crop
diversification; and (b) introduction of a simple labor saving devices for threshing and similar
faming activities.
17. Mhi1g ng and Evaluation. The WI) aspects of the project would be monitored at two levels.
The Directorate of Extension (WID Focal Group) would be .esponsible for monitoring, reporting,
documenting and disseminating lessons learnt on WID aspects of the project. The World Bank
supervision missions would specifically report on the progress made on WID activities during annual
reviews of the project.
Institudgnal ngeM= Rfor Lmaion of a WID Action PIaBt
18. W    F. In principle, aU WI) activities are an integral part of the project and would
be implemented as a part of agriculture development component. However, to ensure that WID
activities have the appropriate priority in the annual work programs, a WID Focal Group would be
set up within the Directorate of Extension (MOA). The group would take the lead role under the
project in coordinating WID activities. The WFG would be represented on the Project Coordination
Committee at the National level, together with a representative of the Ministry for Role of Women.
The Directorate of Extension in PRAS would be responsible for developing special strategies to
enhance role of women in each of the project provinces. Where necessary PRAS would coordinate
and collaborate with other Government institutions with an interest in WI] involvement, including
the Women's Study Centers and cadres such as PKK 1/ at the provincial and desa levels.
19. An important objective of the WID Focal Group will be to involve the Women's Study
Centers. These centers have been established by the Ministry of Education in most of the project
provinces and cary out basic research on socio-economic aspects of women's status to assist the
Government in planning and implemeiiting development program The center teams usually consist
of a multi-disciplinary faculty and staff for field research. A competent consultant would be
employed under the agricultural development consultancy (Annex 13, Attachment 2) to assist and
advise the WID Focal Group.
20. Since WIID activities under the project are new to groundwater development, special attention
will be given to progress at the project annual reviews. Lessons learned would be evaluated and the
WID strategy modified as required to best achieve the project WI] objectives.
I/  The PKK (Pembln  Kesejahterean Kelurga) is a nationwide network of women cadres which grew out of a
women's movement in Central Java in 1967. By the end of 1971 almost all villages in Central Java had
esabished PKK Groups. Recognizing the potential of the movement to involve women in development
progam (parcarly Family Planing), the movement received strng Govaenment support. By the end of
1983, PKK was incpated in state legislation and PKK cadres have now been established in most villages in
the vroject provinces.



- 117 -                           AM-LL
Page, 
EDMNESIA
GROUNDWATER DE-199OPAMENT PROJECr
COnsulat Serices
1.   Consultants would be employed to assist and advise the project implementation agencies at
national level and in the eleven project provinces. In order to maintain the project implementation
schedule, Government would employ consultant services by September 30, 1993. The services
would be under two separate consultancies as summarized below and as detailed in Part A and B of
this Annex. Quantitites and cost estimates for the consultnaticies are given in Table 14, Annex 3).
2.   Assistance to PAT/WGWRD and selected PRIS. Consultants would be employed to assist
DGWRD and selected PRIS under draft terms of reference given in Part A of this Annex. The
consultant services would be some: (a) 142 foreign and 528 local person months for groundwater
development activities; and (b) 22 person months for strengthening the PRIS in East Java and other
provinces for groundwater motoring and regulation activities.
3.   Assistance tQ MOA and Selected PEAS. Consultants would be employed to assist DGCFA
within MOA and selected PRAS under draft terms of reference given in Part B of this Annex. The
consultant services would be 130 foreign and 396 local person months with the main objectives to
generally assist in: (a) agricultural aspects of subproject preparation and analysis; (b) supervision
and overall coordination of provision of agricultural support services; and (c) monitoring and
evaluation and genemal repordng of project agricultural performance. Under this consultant service,
provision would be made to include a WID specialist.
4.   General Provisions. For both consultancies, the firms would provide for positioning and per
diem costs of all staff and for an office in Jakarta with support staff. Both consultants would also
provide administration and overheads, including duty visits to the provinces, printing, postage,
communications, equipment rental, office materials and general consumables. The clients would
prvide office space in Jakarta and Surabaya. The client swould provide for a car in Jakarta and
Surabaya (or an equivalent per diem transportation allowance) and such office equipment, including
computers, that the consultants reasonably require to undertake their duties. Both consultants
would be in place, on or about September 30, 1993, and would be employed under the 'Bank
Guidelines for Use of Consultants. The terms of reference and other documentation for both
consultancies would include sufficient information on the project objectives and scope, procedures
and criteria for short-listed firms to prepare a responsive bid.
5. The Consultant Joint Venture. Preference would be given to consultant groups in which both
international and national firms have, inter alia: (a) experience in groundwater development on
Indonesia; (b) experience of Indonesian institutions involved in groundwater development. Both
foreign and national consultant fis would show evidence that they have sufficient experienced
staff (candidate and alternative for each post) so that the alternative could substitute for, or be
rotated, with the nominee for each position to ensure continuity in experience.
6. Consultant firms (for both consultancies under Part A and B of the Annex) would produce
evidence of their ability to prepare status reports, and planning and implementation documentation
for projects in the irigated agricultural subsector supported by the World Bank. They would thus
demonstrat their ability to produce documentaion relating to: (a) the specific project objectives; (b)
project implementaion performance and analysis; (c) preparadon of action plans and cost estimates;
(d) evaluation of groundwater and other relevant physical resources data; (e) planning and design
technical parameters; and (f) budgetary proposals. Credit would be given in the evaluation prcess
to consultant groups with expeience in relevant projects which involved coordination between the
types of agencies involved in the proposed project



- 118 -Anx1
Eagr2
A. Cutant S drvs to PAWRD and East Java PRIS
7. A composite team of international and national consultants would be employed by DGWRD
over period of about 66 months, starting on or about Septenmber 30, 1993. The consultant services
would consist of two parts: (a) general assistance related to development of facilities for multi-
purpose use of groundwater resources; and (b) a short-tertn assistance to strengthen PRIS in East
Java and other provinces with respect to groundwater resources management and to develop PRIS
capability for long-term technical support to WUAs after completion of the initial O&M period.
Groundwater Development Activities
8.  The main objectve of the consulting services would be to assist the project authorities to
implement the project in accordance with the technical, economic and environmental standards,
procedures and criteria agreed by the Bank and Government. The services would be over a 66
month period employing some 142 foreign and 528 local staff months. The consultants would
propose subprofessional staff to assist in carrying out the services. The main tasks would be to
assist PAT/DOGWRD in: (a) providing technical assistance and guidance to provincial P2AT offices;
(b) standardization of technical critera and procedures; (c) coordination of provincial programs to
ensure uniformity of project planning and design standards; (d) subproject preparadon and analysis;
(e) general management of the project, including overall coordination of project implementation; and
(f) monitoring and evaluation and general reporting of project performance.
9.  Special attention would be given by the consultants to the following activities:
(a)  coordination of project activities, particularly between irigation and agriculture, and
cordination of tie provincial groundwater development programs,
(b)  advice and assistance to introduce and apply procedures for evaluating and screening
'expansion' subproject areas and general implementation at national and provincial level.
(c)  advice on collection and evaluation of physical resource data, including hydrology,
climate, topography, soils and land capability and land ownership for scheme planning
and design, including: (i) review of the scheme designs to confirm that they follow
design objectives and criteria; (ii) scheme analysis to ensure that schemes are technically
and socio-eonomically viable; (iii) design principles and processes for irrigation system
operation; (iv) development of O&M plans for project schemes; and (v) formulation of
procedures for scheme operation during the initial O&M period and for support by PRIS
when WUAs have full responsibility for O&M.
(d)  formalizing the development process to set up of WUAs, design  "rocedures for
supporting WUAs and the supervision and monitoring of the initial per. Jmance of the
WUAs.
(e)  formulating procedures to enable WUAs to function as the nucleus body for other
activities producing incremental socio-economic benefits (i.e., farmer groups for
cooperative implementation of agricultural development, activities related to the role of
women, etc.).
(f)  formulating and introducting of procedures to test performance of completed tubewell
systems and confirm that schemes are ready to be tumed over for O&M by WUAs.
(g)  clearance of 'expansion' areas, namely confirmation that scheme proposals, inter alia. (i)
take into account the planning and design standards and criteia agreed when the schemes
were originally approved for financing by the Bank; (ii) comply with specific criteria
ageed under the proposed project; and (iii) take into account project criteria and
procedures related to the assessment of technical and economic viability.



- 119-                            Annex 13
page 3
(h)  the setting up of procedures and formats for regular project repordng, and monitoring and
evaluation of activities by project provincial agencies, and for collating this information at
national level so that the project can be efficiently and effectively managed.
(i) detailing the objectives and drafting the terms of reference of the various special studies to
be undertaken under the project, as required.
10. With respect to item (h) above, monitoring and evaluating physical and financial progress, by
component, province and the overall project, needs to be substantially strengthened. The
consultants would assist in design and introduction of procedures for keeping of financial and
operaional records by WUAs. Processes would be formalized to monitor inigation performance so
that such data can be correlated with other data related to the projeet's social-economic impact (i.e.,
crop production, farm incomes, effectiveness of activities under the a ulU    development
component). In addidon, the consultants would assist in preparation of the semi-annual progress
reports for each project province, and colladon of perfonnance data at national level, for submission
of progress reports for Bank review. The responsible provincial agencies would ensure that
necessary performnce data are made available.
11.    aizatior- of the Consultants. The organizational setup would be a Central Coordination
Unit (CCU) of foreign consultants assisting the PAT Subdirectorate of DGWRD in Jakarta and two
national consultant teams of Indonesian consultants located in Surabaya and Jakarta assisting the
provincial P2ATs and PRIS. The national consultant teams would have responsibilities as follows:
Ib=n m    DuaO                          Subpro=ects Supervised
1      Surabaya         East Java; NTB (Lombok, Sumbawa), North, Central, and
South Sulawesi, NTT (Timor).
2      Jakarta           West Java, LaIpung, Aceh, North and West Sumatra
12. Cental Coordinating Unit This unit would be responsible for: (a) general coordination of
the project in cooperation with the central executing agency, (b) standardization of designs,
materis and equipment; (c) preparation of specifications for materials and equipment to be
procured; and (d) progress monitoring and reporting to Government. Frequent visits by specialists
from the unit to subproject areas would be necessary on a routihe basis and whenever special issues
arise. The CCUJ would also be responsible for design of standard reporting fonnats, formulation of
procedures for checkdng data quality, and for compiling consolidated interim and final reports for all
subprojects. In addition, it would establish appropriate monitoring systems to gather information
on the implementation of subprojects and on the performance of the facilities after completion and
hand over the WUAs, and would carry out evaluations to mark subproject shortfalls including
analysis of causes and remedial actions required.
13. Suzprject Iams. Each team would be self sufficient to assist the P2ATs in the project
provinces for which it is responsible. The national teams would assist with: (a) investigation and
design of subproject facilides; (b) specification and procurement of materials and equipment
procurement; (c) preparation of contract documents and bid evaluation for civil works contracts for
construction of facilities; (d) supervision of mplementation of works including quality control; and
(e) M&E and reporting of subproject progress and performance.
14. F=eign Consultan    f
(a)  Team                 -gand      with about 15 years, in implementing groundwater
develo.pment projects, with a strong background in management and planning of
irrigation projects. He would have lead a consultancy team and had extensive
expenence of Indonesia, preferably on schemes similar to those proposed under the
project. He would also have experience of Indonesian institutions involved in irrigated



-120 -                            Annex 13
agricultural development and in operating at the highest levels of Government (about 66
staff months).
(b) Senior Hydrogeologist with about 10 years experience, in all aspects of groundwater
hydrology with wide field experience in the design, construcdon and testing of water
wells for irigation and other uses in all types of geological fornations (about 66 staff
months).
(c)  Short-termn Specili. The international consultant fims would provide through the
project period, as required, about 10 month eqv.ivalent of short-term specialists (with at
least 12 years experience) in the fields of, inter 4ia:
(i)  Mechanical/Drilling Engineering including experience in O&M of drilling
equipment and of procurement, installaion and O&M of pumping equipment.
(ii) Institutional Specialist. Senior Social Scientist with excellent knowledge of
Indonesian government institutions and of groundwater irrigation institutions in
Indonesia in particular. The nominee should be fluent in Indonesian language,
both spoken and written.
1t. National Consultant Staff. National Te,nms of consultants would be located in Jakarta and
Surabaya to support the subprojects in the provinces (para 10). The allocated resources would be
about 264 staff months for each team. The number of specialists may vary reflecting differences in
work loads through the project period. National specialists would have at least 12 years of relevant
experience. Each team in Jakarta and Surabaya would include:
(a)   Senior Groundwater Engineer/Co-Team Leader with wide practical experience in
planning, design, construcdon and tubewells in all types of geological formations. The
candidate would have experience in managing consultant teams.
(b)  Mechanical/Drilling Ensineer with specific experience in drilling and well testing
equipment, drafting specifications, procurement and O&M of pumping equipment.
(c)  HJyrgQPlgijd. Each specialist would have specific experience of tubewell design,
construction and testing in all types of geological formations.
(d)  WUA  (rga    with wide field experience in the establishment of WUAs, particularly
for groundwater irrigation facilities, coupled with knowledge of Indonesian Government
institutions and administrative procedures.
Groundwater Monitoring and Regulation Activities
16. In addition to the tsks described above, the foreign consultant fimn would provide a small
team to assist the PRIS in East Java and other provinces take over responsibility fox groundwater
resources management and regulation. These services would be in two phases: (a) 10 staff months
to assist the East Java PRIS; and (b) some 12 siaff months to introduce lessons le&n,ed from East
Java to other provinces, as required. The tdming of the services to assist other provinces would be
decided after the completion of thc first phase of the consultant services. The consultants would
also propose subprofessional staff to assist in carrying out the services.
17. The first task would be to assist the East Java PRIS in: (a) setting up an appropriate
organizational unit to undertake their newly mandated task with respect to groundwater resource
monitoring and evaluation; (b) evaluate the existing observation well network and advise on
modification and/or expanding of this network to provide the necessary coverage of the province;
(c) advise on other aspects of mstitutional and administrative requirements for the unit to funtion
effectively; and (d) prepare a detailed action plan with cost estimate to implement the study



-121 -                             Annex 13
Page S
recommendations. The second task would be to assist the PRIS in other provinces to establish
units similar to that developed in East Java.
18. The consultant staff to underta-ke the the services outlined above would be based in Surabaya
and work directly with the East Java PRIS and P2AT in the province. The first phase would be
expected to take about five months and result in a report to the East Java PRIS and DGWRD on
how the newly mandated task should be underaken, resources and facilides required, and estimated
start-up costS until the activity can function in a routine way. The team for the first phase would
consist of two foreign experts as follows:
(a) Team Leader/Groundwater Engineer with about 15 years experience in implementing
4              studies related to groundwater development projects, with strong background in
groundwater resources management The specialist would have experience of Indonesian
provincial institutions and in operating at the highest levels of govemment
(b)  Senior Hyrogeologist with about 10 years experience, in all aspects of groundwater
hydrology including special experience in the design, construction of observation well
networks and collation, processing and dissemination of groundwater data.
The composition and timing of the team for the second phase would be subject to prior approval by
client under supplementary terms of reference.
B. Consultant Services to MOA/DGFCA and PRAS
19. Consultants services would be employed to assist and advise MOA/1)GCFA and PRAS on the
agricultural development activities under the proposed project. The consultant team, would be
counterparts to the Directorate of Land Reclamation and Development (DLRD) of DGCFA. DLRD is
the lead agency within MOA responsible for project activities and technical inputs, and would assist in
esigning, planning and evaluating all actvites under the agricultural development program. The
c tonsultants would also be expected to workc with the Drcoate of Extension within DGFCA.
20.  The main objective of the consulting services would be to assist the project authorities
implement the agricultural development objectives under the project (Anex 9) in accordance with
technical, economic and environmental standards, proedures and crteria agreed by the Bank and
Government. The consultants would fulfill te project agricultural development objectives by:
(a) providing general technical assistance and guidance to MOA and PRAS agencies; (b) assisting in
review and coordination of provincial programs to ensure uniformity of planning and design
standards, criteria and cost esfimates; and (c) assisting in the coordinaton process between DGWRD
and DGFCA. The main consultancy tasks would be, inter alia: (a) formulating recommendations
with respect to any policy issues that may arise; (b) implementation of all project activities; (c) routine
reporting, monitoring and evaluation processes and procedures; and (d) idendtfying and formulating
recommendations to respond to generic technical issues that should be addressed by Government. An
important funmtion would be to train Government staff in key agricultural development activities.
21. ExRertise Peuired. A team of international and national consultants would be assigned to
calry out the services descriLed above over a period of about 66 months, starting on or before
September 30, 1993. The team would consist of two parts: consultant staff based in Jakarta who
would travel to the provinces and coordinate activities; and consultant staff who would be based in the
provinces to assist the PRAS. It is estimated that 526 staff months of professional inputs are
required. of which about 396 staff months could be national consultants, and 130 staff months by
foreign consultants. In addition, the consultants would propose subprofessional staff to assist in
canying out the services.
22.     e Consultant Fm. An essential prerequisite of the consultant services would be that both
the interatonal and national firms have, inter alia: (a) extensive experience in irrigated agricultural
development in Indonesia, preferably on schemes similar to those under the project (b) experience of



- 122-                            Annme l
ege 6
Indonesian institutions involved in irrigated agricultural development; and (c) staff able to offer
guidance and advice to Government at nadonal and provincial levels in all aspects of management,
policy and the procedures, standards and ctiteria agreed under the project.
23.   The consultant firms would be expected to provide staff with the required experience for all
designated consultancy activities. They would show evidence tha: they have sufficient experienced
staff (candidate and alternate for each post) so that the alternate could substitute for or rotate with the
nominee for each position to ensure continuity in experience. In addition to technical expertse and
experience, the consultant firms would produce evidence to demonstrate their ability to prepar status
reports and implementaton documentation suitable for Indonesian projects supported by the Bank.
24.   The consultants would provide the following professional staff:
Feign Consultant Staff
(a)  Senior Agriculturalist (Inigation Anomist). Two specialists each with about 15 years
experience of irigated agricultural development (including experience in Indonesia) to offer
guidance and Fdvice on agricultural development activities to be implemented under the
project. The assignments would be about 66 months and 54 months respectively. The main
tasks would be to assist in the evaluation of the agricultural viability of schemes and
fomulaion of agricultural development plans for schemes cleared for implementation.
(b) Short-term Specialists would be provided dtrough the project period, as required, for
equivalent to 10 staff months in the fields of, inter alia, soil science, water management,
nsttutional development. irrigated agricultural development, and environmental protection.
Visits of specialists would be subject to prior approval under agreed TORs.
B   National Consultant Staff (396 staff months)
(a)  Agricultural Team would consist of agricultural specialists with at least 12 years of
professional experience in inigated agriculture in Indonesia as follows:
SRCialis                                          Staff Months
Team Lader/Igation Agronomist (Jakarta)                 66 months
Agro-Economist (Suabaya)                                66 months
Igation Agronomist (Surabaya)                           66 months
Institutional Specialist (Jakarta)                      66 months
Short-term Specialists (where reqired)                  66 months
(b) Wonmen-in-DeveWm=n (WID) Secialist The national consultant furm would provide a
WD specialist for 66 staff months with at least 10 years of professional experience in rral
development and proven knowledge in the field of women in the agricultural sector in
Indonesia The specialist would be responsible for overall coordination of the WID focused
activities of the project Responsibilities would include: (i) carrying out rapid surveys in
project development areas to assess the socio-economic status of households, existing DWS
arrangements, women's interest in irrigadng house gardens and percepdons of their
problems and training needs; (ii) coordination with PRAS staff in preparation of site specific
agricultural development plans which incorporate women's agricultural activities; (iii) review
existing and develop new training materials for use in courses which emphasize gender roles
in agricultural and other water uses; and (iv) development and assistance with demonstation
programs to improve the role of women in the subproject areas. The specialist would be
attached to the D iorate of Extension (MOA) in Jaka, but would be expected to travel in
the project provinces as required.



-123 -                                 Anne I4
&go
RNDONSIA
Pement Arangmn
1. Gneral. The procurement arrangements under the project are designed to achieved the
following objectives: (a) quality control through standardization of specifications and terms and
conditions of the contracl conditions, (b) competitive bidding by maintaining the stqndeized
contract which enable comparative analysis; (c) encouragement of local contractors for activities
where local contracting capability are available; (d) ease of management and supervision by
Government and the Bank; and (f) appropriate and simple technology which can be replicated
through the project provinces. Thus, contracts for works and goods would be based on model bid
documents approved by the Government and Bank. The procurement plan is given in Table 4.3 of
the main text.
2.   Review of            Although no civil works contracts are expected to cost more than
US $ 1.0 million, any works contracts exceeding that amount and equipment and materials
contracts estimated to cost IJS $ 200,000 equivalent or over, would be subject to the Bank's prior
nwiew. It is expected that about 16 contracts and about 95 percent of the goods by value, would be
subject to prior review. As works would be procured following LCB procedures and their size
would be small (less than US $ 1.0 million), these contracts would be subject to random post-
award review. Contracts of lesser value for works and goods would be based on model bid
documents approved by the Bank and Govenment. Invitation documents, proposed awards and
contracts for consultant services would be reviewed by the Bank.
3.   Works. Project procurement of works would be undertaken by the implementing agencies
at national and provincial levels. The civil works (US $ 27.6 million), including construction of
irrigation and domestic water supply facilities and observation wells, would be widely dispersed at
many subproect locations in eleven provinces. There would be two types of contracts: (a) some
45 contracts forconstruction of the boreholes and completion of the tubewell facility; and (b) about
45 contracts for construction of the buried type distribution systems and other minor civil works
(pump house, etc.). All contracts will be packaged as much as possible, however, none are not
expected to exceed US $ 1.0 million with the equipment and construction materials supplied by the
P2AT (para S below). These works contracts would be small to encourage local provincial
contrs and would therefore be implemented under LCB contts let by the concerned P2AT
provincal offices as tentatively indicated in Table 1 attached. This procurement schedule is based
on the implementation schedule shown on Annex 1, Table 6 and reflect the cost esimates for the
various project activities given in Annex 3.
4.   Construction of pump houses and instlatdon of buried pipe distribution systems would be
undertaken by local contractors administered by the P2AT office procured using standard bid
documents approved by the Bank. Under these contracts, all special pipe materials and alfalfa
valves installed would be provided from P2AT stocks procured nationaly (through the PAT ofrtce)
under ICB or LCB procedures, as appropriate (pam 7 below). PVC pipes, pumps and diesel
engines would be procured under ICB procedures with installation undertaken departmentally by
P2AT staff.
5.   Te procurement arrangements would be carefuly designed to: (a) enable use of standard
bid documents; (b) encourge focal contuactors, particuarly for the drilling of tubewell bore holes;
and (c) standadize equipment and materials through centrally administ   contra  The number
and timing of dtese conaws would reflect the rate of project implementation (Annex 1, Table 6).
The poject pcurment schedule would be revised annually to take into account the updated
implementation schedule for each provincal work pm    Tus, pcment scheduling would



Annex14
- 124.                                     Page, 2
be an important detenninant for the preparation of annual budgetary requests, which in tunm will
decide the project administration requirements and staffing requirements of each P2AT office.
6.   Goods Procurement of goods would consist of large packages of materials and equipment
(US $ 27.6 million) required for construcdon of the tubewell facilities (well casings and screens,
drilling equipment spare parts, drilling bits, drilling mud, PVC pipes and fittings for distribution
system, diesel motor powered pump sets) and would attract foreign competition. Procurement of
these goods would therefore be undertaken centrally through the PAT office in Jakarta under ICB
procedures using model bid documentation. The equipment specifications would be standardized
to facilitate the O&M of the items procured. Tenders issued by PAT would be in appropriately
sized packages to reflect the implementaion progress and to be attractive to responsible foreign
manufacturers. The packaging of contracts would be decided by PAT within DGWRD after
consultation (on progress and requirements) with concerned project provincial offices (P2ATs).
For bid comparisons, local manufacturers would be allowed a 15 percent margin of preference of
the CI.F. pnce or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower.
7.   In addition to the main goods contracts, small amounts of materials (US $ 0.9 million)
which can be fabricated locally (outlet valves, PVC storage tanks for DWS works, etc.) would be
procured by LCB tenders let by provincial project offices, following standard specifications issued
by the PAT office. Most other equipment (US $ 0.7 million), including office and survey
equipment and computers, would be required by scattered project offices in the provinces.
However, to encourage quality control, procurement of these goods would be centralized using
lists and specifications drawn up by the project coordinadon unit after consultation with provincial
project offices. The procurement would be undertakne following LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank (US $ 0.4 million), or through internadonal and local shopping (US $ 0.3 million).
Foreign firms would not be interested in the goods to be procured under LCB procedures, however,
they would not be excluded from bidding.
8.   Government regulations prohibit the importation of vehicles. Therefore, vehicles estimated
at about US $ 0.7 million, would be classified as reserved procurement and would not be financed
under the Loan.
9.    Sice   Services related to survey, investigation and design (US $ 0.9 million),
agricultural support (US $ 1.0 million), institudonal support (US $ 5.9 mfillion), initial O&M
(US $ 3.2 million), and training activities (US $ 1.9 million) would not be suitable for international
compedtion since these activides are widely scattered, small in size, and scheme specific, both in
locadon and scheduling. In addition, they would take place over the six year project period. They
would thus be underten, either departmentally following selected procedures acceptable to the
Bank (US $ 7.6 million), or by local consultant services (US $ 5.3 million) employed in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
10.    nultanservices. (US $ 11.4 million). The two consultancy contracts would be for
groundwater irrigation development employed by DGWRD and agricultural development
employed under DGCFA within MOA as described in Annex 13. Both consultancies would be
procured under Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
11.  Scial studies (US $ 0.6 million) would be decided as the project proceeds and address
such subjects as, inter alia: appropriateness of technology; groundwater resource monitoring and
evaluation; and agricultural support of community and WID activities. Studies would be
undertaken by consultant services employed in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants.



- 125 -
Annex 14
ZDONESIA                                              Tal1
ORO1.WA TEpEVE.OPME P-ROJEDCT
TeSyem lEguemnt Schedul a
No. ofContaels
Tnwp of
Ibm      Contraet   Loctlo             Year1 Year2 Year3 Year 4 YearS5 Year6  Total  Agency
Respa0sible
A      Drilling b/
,,                        ~~~~~~~~~East Java     2      2      2      2      1            9     A
West Java             I      I      I      I     1             S     A
NusaTentgara,Baral    I      1      2      2     1             7     A
Nusa Tengara Timur           I      }                          2     A
*                         ~~~~~~~~~North Sulawesi  I    I      1                          3     A
Cerdml Sulawesi              I      I      1                   3     A
South Sulawesi        I      I      1                          3     A
1 _jn                        I      I      I     1             4     A
Aceh                  I             1            1             3     A
Not Sumatra           I             I            1             3     A
WVest Sumatra         I             I            1             3     A
Subtotal              9      9    13      7      7      0    45
B    PVC pipegslem$ E3auJava                     I      2      2     2      2      9     A
& civil woN  b/ WestJava                    I1         1      1      1   I           A
NTB                          I      1      2     2      1      7     A
NTT                                 I      1                   2     A
Norh Sulawesi                I      I      1                   3     A
ralW Sulawesi                       I      I     1             3     A
Souffi Sulawesi              I      I      1                   3     A
gApn                                1      1     1      1      4     A
A.^                          I             I            1      3     A
North Sumatts                I             I            1      3     A
Wiest Sumatra                I             I            1      3     A
Subtotll              0      8      9     13     7      8    45
C    Matealsb                             2      3      2      2     2             9     B
(PVCpie) c
D    Eqipend l                            1      2  .2         2     2             8     B
(pump nol)
TOTAL                12    22  .26    24    18          8   107
Notes:A. PUAT pwoiwidsubproject office. B: PAT officewilhh DOVRD in Jaktrta
el  All conta   for owh "   of pwmea would be to standard pcfi_ato, (Eleared by te Bkank)
following model conam ot    _wfi   agreed by the Banlt and GOL
A prcrmn obtjectve is to enable fore dwecalrzalicn to staiard specifiatins.
Pwurm swhe is sitject to the rat at wbich 'expomsomm wea are zaeusad to go-she"' sus.
To be conwred at negoatiodus for PY 1993/94 and fix te following years during the amual review proes.
b/ Small oensf to enoae     1        1ffwm    drilling contact0s expenditure by you
given in Tables 1 to 11, ADnex 3.
dJ  Co sm  peroed at natioal loves with delivery to the vexious subprject sites.
dl Coasdedgned to e_uapsta dadinonof equpment



- 127-                           Anflj 1
GROUNDWATE,R   EVE           SPRJC
Projc Inm t on the Phy.dcal Environment
1.    The project is not expected to have a negative impact on the physical
environment.since it does not involve disturbance of land forms. The agriculturl development
would take place on lands which are, at present, used for cultivation of field craps. Thus, the
project would not involve clearance of forest or any other natural vegetation and, therefore,
would not have any negative impacts on the habitat of wildlife. The development is not
expected to create dminage problems, or cause soil deterioration such as salinization. In fact,
groundwater development for irrigation would generally improve the drainage conditions of
agricultura lands when they have a natural tendency to water logging.
2.     Groundwater development for irrigation can be planned and implemented as discrete
module units (i.e., each individual tubewell is a separate unit), and thus the development impact
on the aquifer system can be monitored from the outset. This process would provides timely
warning of any adverse effects so that mitigating actions can be taken before irreversible
damage occurs. Furthermore, the M&E of groundwater resources is an essential step in the
agreed procedures for the planning and design of the project (Annex 5). Water level monitonng
networks would also be established in the groundwater development areas to provide warning
of change, in paricula any progressive water table decline resulting from over-exploitation. In
addition, groundwater quality in the development areas would be continuously monitored,
particularly in areas adjacent to the coast where there may be the risk of water quality
ioration due to salt water intrusion of the aquifer system.
3.     With respect to water over-exploitation, even in East Java where groundwater has
been fairly highly developed for irrigation, there have been no indications of overdraft, or
reports of irngation withdrawals having adverse effects on village water supply wells.
Moreover the available environmental impact reports for irtigon projects indicate that leached
fertilizers and pesticides have not, as yet, caused any signifitcant deterioration in the quality of
shallow groundwater (or of surface water runoff).
QaUmPaQLDfthe lprje
4.     The project would increase agricultural production and increase incomes in rural areas
which are now almost endrely dependent on rainfall for crop cultivation and where poverty is
prevalent. Alleviation of hard core poverty is an important project objective and groundwater
irrigation development can be pardcularly effectively in this respect. The tubewell facilities
serve relatvely small, discrete areas and, therefore, can be located to serve targeted groups of
beneficiaries. A special project focus will be to enable full participation of the beneficiaries and
communities to be served in all phases of the development process (Annex 4).
5 .    The project would also provide formal arrangement for domestic water supplies to be
taken from the groundwater irrigation facilities: (a) when the wells are located in the close
vicinity of rural settlements; and (b) where there is a clearly expressed desire from potential
beneficiaries for such facilities. Water abstracted by tubewells is normally of good biological
quality for drinking purposes and provisions would be made for treatment by chlorination, as
required, to maintaJn the quality for the consumers



-128-                             Annex 15
Page, 2
6.     Provision of domestic water supplies from project wells would be promoted in all
situations where the groundwater abstraction for irrigation could impact adversely on existing -
viUage water supplies. Thus, the domestic water supply component of the project would have
both environmental and social benefits through provision of easily accessible drinking water
supplies that are: (a) safer to use than many of the existing supplies taken fiom open wells; and
(b) secure and sustainable with appropriate beneficiary management.
7.     The project has been formulated and provides resources to ensure that the needs of
women are properly addressed within the development process and that women are fully
involved in aU activities where they have a legitimate or beneficial role (Annex 12).
Envh=I Statu.s of th.e Priojc
8.     The proposed project is designated Category B under Bank environmental standards
because the environmental impacts would be localized and positive. Furthermore, any negative
impacts which may result from necessary planning and design decisions would be reversible
and easily manageable with the institutional resources to be made available through the project.
Preliminary identification of environmental issues has been undertaken as part of project
preparation. Potential environmental impact has been reviewed in detail with Government
dunng project preparation and appraisal process.
9.     Agreed action programs to safeguard environmental impact will be taken into account,
e,ither throu-gh a project component (i.e., provisions for water quantity and quality monitoring),
r thirough specific criteria and procedures under the project for environmental related activities.
These actions would apply to all subproject areas. As an additional safeguard, under the quality
control assurance obtained from Government, environmental assessments would be undertaken
in project areas, satisfactory to the Bank, to ensure that social equity and water quality
considerons are taken into account in the siting and planning and design of tubewell facilities.



-129-
Annex 16
-IOESA
(iRQUEDDEVE LOi3 PMENT PROJC
Projec Slumsion Requiremets
1.   Proect S     jdsion The Bank staff requirements to supervise the project would be greater
than the resources (about 12 staff weeks per year) for a typical specific investment opemtion. The
supervision arrangements for the proposed project would be complex for the Bank because of the
geographical spread and the range of new initiatives being addressed. Thus, Govemment would
need to collect, analyze and provide to the Bank, all roudne implementation and performance data as
an input to the Bank's supervision process. In this respect, an important function of the consultant
services (Annex 13) would be to guide and assist Government in project supervision and to
strengthen the capability of individual agencies to monitor and evaluate project implementation.
However, even with the consultant's input, the project would benefit from a continuous Bank
supervision input and it may be more effective to supervise the project through RSI (Jakarta
Resident Mission). Recommended supervision requirements are summarized below.
2.   Su     sion Arrangements. The recommended arrangement would be for the Bane's
resident mission staff to supervise the project two times each year. The main mision would be
May/June each year and constitute the annual implementation review. During this mission,
proprate acdion would be taken to review and amend the annual work program for the following
issal year (to takce into account the budgetary timetable). The ond mission would take place
about mn November/December each year, and one important task would be to review the budgetary
request based on the work program agreed during the previous mission. Any needed day-to-day
follow-up actions would be undertaken by RSI staff. The first supervision mission (July 1993)
would require sufficient staff resources to cover the project start-up and to pay special attention to
the agricltural development and community pardcipation activities. It is thus recommended that the
irst supervision mission should, scheduling permitted, include headquarters staff who have been
involved in the projectpreparation and/or the appraisal missions. The Bank supervision resources
-would be as follows:
Staffing                   Staff Weeks
Year I    Years 2-6
(a)  Annual Implementation Review   Econonist/Agricultunist  3         3
(May/June each year)        Engineer                  3            2
Consultant                3           2
(b) Second Supervision Mission  Economist or Engineer     3            3
(Nov/Dec each year)         Consultant                2            2
(c)  General Supervision Activities   Task Manager        2            3
Total Staff Rqient(pe yea)                    16          15
3.   It is also recommended that thematic subjects, such as WID, groundwater n.- %itoring, etc. be
supervised on a multi-poect basis with additional resources, as required. This would enable generic
lessons learned to be applied on a subsector or country basis.



- 130-                            Annex 17
paggi
INDONESIA
GR,OUbNAlli DEVLPMENT RJC
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Poect F
A. BackMandRows
1.  Lombok Island Groundwater Development (Long Tern Groundwater Development Plan),
ELc Electoconsult SPA, in association with PT Yodya Karya-Gamma Epsilon, July 1991,
(Main Report and Supporting Volume).
2.  Groundwater Development Project in East Java aid Sulawesi, Nippon Koei, Consulting
Engineers, in association with ELc Electoconsult SPA and PT Indah Karya and Pr Soilens,
March 1991, (Main Report and 8 Suppording Volumes).
3.  Groundwater Trigation Development Project Preparation Study, PT. Wiratman & Associates,
in association with ELC Electroconsult SPA and PT Yodya Karya, July 1991, (Main Volume
and 4 Supporing Volumes).
4. Central Java Groundwater Irrigation Development Project, Nippon Koei Co., Ltd., in
association with ELc Electroconsult SPA, Indec & Associates Ltd., and PT. Indra Karya,
(Main Report and 4 Supporting Volumes).
5. Central Java Groundwater Development Study, ELc Electroconsult SPA, in association with
Niaconsult, Inc.,Septernber 1985, (Final Report).
6.  Madura Groundwater Irnigadon project Phase 2 and 3, GD Consultants (International) Ltd.
with INDEC & Associates Ltd., July 1990, (Main Report and Supporting Volume).
7.  Poicy Alternadves for Pump Irrigaton in Indonesia, Centre for Agro-Socioeconomic
Research, ISPAN, USAID Mission to Indonesia, June 1992.
8. LKMD-Institutes for Village Community Resilience, Directorate General for Rural
Development, Ministry of Home Affairs, 1984.
9.  Legislation and Institutional Arrangement of Groundwater Development in Indonesia;
Dhieorte of Environmental Geology, DGGMR, Department of Mines and Engeiy, 1986.
10. Compilaton of Regulations on Water Resources Development, Directora General of Water
Resources Development, Ministry of Public Works, 1991.
11. Privatization and Sustainability of Small-Scale Irrigadon in Indonesia, Irrigation Support
Project for Asia and the Near East (ISPAN), sponsored by the USAID, 1991.
B.  muiWeEmnDimocunzatiaon
12. GroundwaterIrrigatonDeelopmentProjectPreparaton Study - Addendum; PT Wraman &
Associates, in associaton with ELC Electroconsult SPA and PT Yodya Karta, December
1991.
13. Timor Island Water Resources Development Study; Crippen Intemational Ltd., Canadian
Interational Development Agency, June 1980.



- 131 -                         A     1
i                  b~~~~~Pge 2
14. Evaluation of Groundwater Data for Groundwater rigaton Development Project, P. T
Wiratman & Associates, July 1991, Final Report
15. Preparatory Works for Groundwater Development Project Reconaissance Study in the
Provinces of Laumpung, West Java, Timor Timur and Maluku; ELc Ekcoconsult SPA in
association with PT Yodya Karya, PT Wiramnan & Associates, April 1990.
16. Groundwater Irrigation Development Project Preparation Study, PT Wiratnan & Associates,
in association with ELc Electroconsult SPA and PT Yodya Kara, January 1992, (Executive
Sumary, Main Report and 3 Supportng Volumes).
17. Groundwater Irrigation Development Project Preparation Study; PT Wiratman & Associates,
in assocaton wMit ELc Electroconsult and PT Yodya Ka, July 1991.
18. Proposed Agculu- Development Component under Groundwater Development Project;
DL), DGFA Ministry of Agriculture, August 1992.
19. Groundwater Development Project, PAt, DOI-IL, DGWRD, August 1992, Status Repor
20. Proposal for (East Java) Groundwater Development Project, P2AT, September 1992.
C. Bank Documents =lt to 
21. SAR, Provincial Irrigated Agricultual Development Project (PIADP), Report No. 9137-IND,
February 1992.
22. PCR, Second Provinicial Irrigation Development Project, Report No. 8336, Januay 1990.
23.. SAR, Irrigation Subsector II (O&M) Project (ISSP-H), Report No. 9201-IND, May 1991.
24. PPAR, Indonesia, Irrigation Project X, XIV and XV (Loans 1578, 1822 and Credit 995-
IND), June 1989.
25. Water Supply and Sanitation Projects-The Bank's Experience (1967-1989), OED Report
No. 10789, June 1992.
26. Indonesia - Agricultural Transportation Challenges and Opportunities, Report No. 10504.
IND, Sept 1992.



INDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overall Projc Organizaton
.L._
-  - -   -  -  -  -  -  -   -S:k-                                         - -   -    a    -       s
----    cidhisilan  cRIA: CenIgaI Raseafch Institute o                            *f f Agdcult        h'o,
viectorawat   mrocloiWUA:  ofaTI.U
F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~DRR DIetrt Gna  fReoetdn n   adR  aitto
............................................... ........ ...........f.................I. f    f ,.
*~~~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                 I-- 1. ---- I
k  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- V                                                                             Pn          
......, ....................          ..... .............. ... .... ..........................................................    . ....... .............. ............................ .............
#~~~~~~~~~~~~ -F -ub - -^Ze - - --- - - - -        
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BN Bad Iaa bxrd -IoosO*o mwm
L~~~~~ -  -  -w C___                                                       ____            ____on_ CPA   CItWRsac hff  fAk
LkwolAcoDu:    h  P                          -bPoPty       Bd-kiwonesb
DGRLR: DhbGotR_n ~~~~andd_ PaoMtto



INDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prolect OrgplkaUonal Arrangements for Agricultural Development
*~ ~~DJIW r             I   oA_L  AGBCFOWYR E4HI
FOOD CROt8
Mftopmw ~    &dlmtog
CRA
FARUS   HE^D. O"TICT   PRd.  -
n   AGP"CULLMEA i  PW&                Exn~~~~~~~~COHUL
I C01TER F~~~~~~~~~~---q TcIIiAStUc
-   I EXTEN910N
PPI:DPM  PRauPAWyMA



INDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organizafton of Typical Provincial Woter Reources Development Services (PRIS)
I -n 
PROVEOLWRNson
r: EIst Java ProvinceM                       ALWI     M
_USI"   .           b           .        ,      I            ,| 
"Aftm~~~ &                              P'M&              RCR
PROWO             -      o        ' O       N    m             MAnX           _        LOO
Nob:EastP ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Sa                                                        w            ffm



INDONESIA
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organiztion ot Typical Provincial Agricultural Services (PRAS)
I  WHEDOF       I
1arimr        S                                         AERVICEE
r ~     ~~       A,   I  .
PEST &    FARMING            ~~LAGSTNDFMAA
SECTION  SECTION~SuECTiONSU MO
PEST & DISEASE  FR ME             NWATE
SECUM           ~~~SECTIO          SEcTnoN           SECTIO
EMM PP"    PM a                F~PROAMO         RELAMW
SECTM                          SECTM FAM ~~~~~~~~~SCTONSECTIO                               SECINM
10.11101 low &             PROM)CT          ~PROMUCT             SOL
PROCESSM                       ~~~~~QUALiT       QUALiT          CONSE~RI1O
r-~~~~~~r                                  I .                                                  
F          PROJO"  ~~~~~~PRJETPROJECT
OWLEMEND  ~   ~    I MPLEMENTATION UNT I WtEMENTTONUIT
I   I    I   I  I      I    I           I          I _     _     _E
KABUPTB
AONMTULRAL
No   a  maPok                                                    AGENCIES



- 136 -
INDONESIA
GROUND WATER DEVELO,MENT PROJEfCT
Tubewell DeveloRment Process
(Desa Level Project Cycle)
IIdenS(na ot              I
P6tntal areas
tCillae Sklecfon)
PRE-                   _
PREPARATION        Project Initiaton               Meeting
(3-6 monftf)       Introduction, Information       Mobiition
to local govemment and         ActMvss
Desa
fCommfuntyfrespose and    I    l.ntestin improve          Commun    Basic
ParSipation, tomial       .      n , water suppiy         awarss   Desa (Village)
requet for tbewel              Set., special CB?      I   asd        lData
C80 JWUB                                      Yes
CB0 /WUB G                     Formation of
Consolidation of               Special CfWA of
AcesM
PREPARATION              1
(Parfiipatory      Asses needs,
Planning)         Pribrities, resources
(9-12 months) 
Irriga4d water, aher water    N .Assmment of                            Den
use a priorit?                 needs and                  Comuib_    lage)
_      __   L        ~~~~~resources comp ft     Proiecs     naed data
I         v.~~es
VAasm needs,
PriorRiesY resources___
r            y,es
Desa Proaram                   Technical, predesign and
Prepare ub proect              oostings, community
PfoposalVTADP                  conibudon, rep     _  §b
PROJECT'
IMPLEMENTA7ION   I m lameentation of Worfs
(9-12 monfth)
OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE        Operation and maintenance       O&M support to WUA         mplementn of  agriculebof
(Post constucton)   commissioig, and haid over     operator training         deelopment plan other
(24 months)       to WUA
Monitoring and ealuation
bed baclI
Desa-Vilae
CBO-Commu mftBased Organition
WUG - Watr Use Gop
WUA - Water User_ Asocation
VrADP - Village TubewU and Agriculual Delpmnt Plan



*        -                                                                                P         4
THAILAND                                      *1*
1bndoAceh                                                               h |     S/r                                  -                                            N-
> 2 v Saxith ClRnsl Sea ,/ t.Q! 5 - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHIUPPIN4ES 
lip                                                                                                      - ~~~~~~~ Piuuprn~~~~~~~Z 
V u X W SUMANTAN T/Ce'pbo
UIAT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MLYI
KAAr V   MLIMANTAN KARAA I A                                         W Rm bot n
OJfb        -.                                    KAL IMANTAN KFNCAH
,LAA  A                   9 t    413  AWES1,it  /
W    J;;)  SU~AlFS 43t3                    e      +               ~              /K.ttNJava Sea                                         TENGGARA
S*                      J aWa T);N                                                                      NS TINGA<A  TENGGARA
oiJ,         Suon  WA                    °                                 T 0-
l  <,A dARAT (JAWA TENGAH ~-MADURA   r_]           NIJSATENGGARAT
INDONESIA                                                                J AWo wAU                  SUn yAWAFOP
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                               D.I.Yo-YAKAMRT           -'V
.        ' NO URMOR iM r
-            X;ih                                      INDIAN OCEAN                         S'
*Vadkow A.. in EW Jawa             RvAlce                                                                                                         " urin        or Sea
SeeM and M&o                                                                                                                                         ~~ 
Nole.n  - WedCs saff exduslel for coavefijeoce of the
Taw    E                                                                                                                       readwes aod is for t0 intenl ur of The Wobtd
Lilai  -Nool                                              KM0 0       100     200     no       400     so                      =,Grop         antsc,tl 
$ektn -South                                                                                                                  bon es shown this mop do not ;.      *    ;
Thf)90h  CeI*dt*                                                         .    ,*              *4                              the pwt of The Worl Bank Grop,any j~drel* 
o00       50                     an the fi .Ieg6 vc of any tenoly coa  edore- 
lie                                                          ment or acesptance of such boun)e        e
S  |  .                              I                                                         |                                           f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ln



