Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20551-ID
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35880; SCL-3588A; SCPD-3588S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 54.0 MILLION
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 23, 2000
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective As of December 1999)
Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
Rp. 1 million = US$ 142.86
US$ 1.00 = Rp. 7,000
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEDB         Agro-Economic Data Base                    ITTW       Intermediate Technology Tubewell Facility
BAPPEDA    Provincial Development Planning              LCO        Local Community Organizer
Agency
BAPPENAS   National Development Planning Agency         MPW        Ministry of Public Works
DGFCA        Directorate General for Food Crops         MOA        Ministry of Agriculture
Agriculture, MOA (The former DGFCH)        MSRD      Ministry of Settlement and Regional
Development
DGFCH        Directorate General for Food Crops and     O&M        Operation and Maintenance
Horticulture, MOA
DGWRD        Directorate General of Water Resources     OED        Operations Evaluation Department
Development, MPW (The fonmer DGRD)
DGRD         Directorate General for Rural              PRA        Participatory Rural Appraisal
Development, MSRD
DLRD         Directorate of Land Rehabilitation and     PRAS       Provincial Agriculture Services
Development, MOA
DOI          Directorate of Irrigation                  PRIS       Provincial Irrigation Services
DTW          Deep Tubewell Facility                     PAT        Sub-Directorate in Central Level for
Groundwater Development
ERR          Economic Rate of Retum                     P2AT       Provincial Groundwater Development
Project
FAO/CP       FAOlWorld Bank Cooperative                 QAG        Quality Assurance Group
Programme
FRR          Financial Rate of Retum                    SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
FWG          Farmer Women Group                         SID        Survey, Investigation and Design
GWDP         Groundwater Development Project            STW        Shallow Tubewell System
GOI          Govemment of Indonesia                     WATSAL  Water Sector Adjustment Loan
IIC          Interagency Irrigation Committee           WID        Women in Development
ISSP         Irrigation Subsector Project               WUA        Water Users' Association
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:        Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:       Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Christopher Konecki, EASRD/Ilham Abla, EACIF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE GROUNDWATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3588-IND)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                      7
6. Sustainability                                                                          8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                           9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        10
9. Partner Comments                                                                       11
10. Additional Information                                                                20
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     28
FAO/CP Team, K. Mei and J. Pruntel are acknowledged for their cooperation in preparing this ICR. We are grateful to C.
Konecki who was the Task Team Leader during the initial stage of the process. G. Feder and A.K. Subramanian, the peers
reviewers, and other readers: S.D. Mink, B. Fisher, H. Bruneau, R. Raturi, S. Soemardjo and A. Lambertus for their valuable
comments and contribution. B.L. Phillips and S.A. Wohon provided their logistic and technical assistance to finalize this
document.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003999                                       Project Name: GROUNDWATER DEVT.
Team Leader: Ilham Abla                                   TL Unit.f EACLF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 23, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: GROUNDWATER DEVT.                              L/C/TF Number: CPL-35880;
SCL-3588A;
SCPD-3588S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: AI - Irrigation & Drainage
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  02/25/91                                Effective: 05/16/93            07/06/93
Appraisal:  07/15/92                                  MTR: 08/01/96              01/17/96
Approval:  04/13/93                                Closing: 12/31/99             12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/DGWRD, DGFCA
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Mark Baird                                 M. Haug
Sector Manager:      Geoffrey B. Fox                            A. Cole
Team Leader at ICR:   Ilhamn Abla                               J. F. Cunningham
ICR Primary Author:   K. Mei (FAO)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: U                      U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The major objective of the project was to develop groundwater irrigation in less developed regions in eleven
provinces to help alleviate hard-core poverty. Further objectives were to promote the multipurpose use of
groundwater resources; develop least cost, appropriate technology that can be sustained by user groups
with minimal public sector support; enable full beneficiary participation in development and operation and
maintenance (O&M) of groundwater irrigation systems, and assist the Government of Indonesia (GOI) in
strengthening its planning and implementation capacity for groundwater development.
3.2 Revised Objective:
After a slow start, project performance rapidly deteriorated due to a multitude of problems. The most
important of these were significant cost overruns in groundwater exploration and the construction of wells,
poor/untimely procurement of equipment, and development of wells with low water outputs. The Bank
seriously considered closing down the project in 1996. After lengthy discussions with GOI, it was agreed
to restructure the project and continue drilling activities in only two provinces (East Java and South
Sulawesi) where project implementation had least problems with significant up-front investment
commitment, proven groundwater aquifers and responsive farmers. As a result of the decision to
concentrate on two provinces, the main focus of the project shifted to achieving economic and technical
success with less emphasis on helping to alleviate hard-core poverty in less developed regions.
3.3 Original Components:
It was envisaged that the project would finance all activities related to tubewell development from initial
surveys to full operation, including two years of O&M support. Major components included: (a) survey,
investigation and design; (b) construction of Deep Tubewell (DTW) and Intermediate Technology Tubewell
(ITTW) systems serving about 25,000 ha; (c) initial O&M support for two years after commissioning of
tubewell systems; (d) provision of domestic water supply and home garden irrigation facilities; (e)
agricultural development activities, including strengthening of extension services; (f) community support,
including training and strengthening of Water Users'Associations (WUAs) and activities related to the role
of women; and (g) institutional support for design, implementation, supervision, and monitoring and
evaluation of project performance. Technical assistance was provided to support the above activities. The
project would also strengthen groundwater monitoring networks by construction and equipping of
observation wells, providing water quality monitoring equipment, and training for PRIS (Provincial Water
Resources Development Service) staff on groundwater resources monitoring.
Although the components were reasonably related to achieving the project's main objective of helping to
alleviate hard-core poverty, its design did not take sufficiently into account the lessons learned in prior
projects in the water sector in Indonesia. The first shortcoming was the ambitious scope of the project
which envisaged tubewell development in too many places and provinces at the same time. This was
compounded by the fact that some of the poorest provinces were remote and institutions were weak.
Moreover, the implementation agency's administrative and financial management capacities were
insufficient to adequately address the lessons learned under the ISSP II (Ln. 2880-IND) groundwater
component, in particular: (a) the combining of exploration and pilot tubewell development to lead rapidly to
full development, was not sufficiently applied; (b) supervision of construction was not properly organized
and quality control was lacking; (c) the procured equipment was not accurately specified and the quality
was generally poor; (d) community participation and WUA training was insufficiently strengthened; and (f)
monitoring and evaluation of development impact was inadequate. Also the very low economic rate of
return (ERR) in previous projects, particularly in the outer islands, should have been an early warning that
the proposed high cost design would not be economically feasible.
- 2 -



Institutional Arrangement. The main implementing agency for irrigation and drinking water supply
works were PAT in central level, and P2AT in provincies. The agriculture component was implemented
through DLRD, Ministry of Agriculture in central, and PRAS in provincial level. Bappeda was supposed
to coordinate the activities in provincies, and Bappenas in central level. PRIS would be responsible for
supervision and technical support for the O&M of completed tubewells system after the initial O&M
support by P2AT. In East Java province, groundwater monitoring and management is under responsibility
of the PRIS.
3.4 Revised Components:
Following poor technical performance in the early years of implementation and expected low economic rate
of return in most project provinces, the project was rescoped and components revised in 1996, as follows:
(a) cancellation of new drilling in nine out of 11 provinces and reduction of the area under tubewells from
24,650 to 10,600 ha; (b) reduction of the total number of tubewells from 2,140 to 925; and (c) installation
of new tubewells only in East Java (100 tnits covering 3,000 ha) and an additional 20 units in South
Sulawesi. In the remaining period, focus was centered on rescuing and improving committed investment.
The succesful rate of well drilling then increased from 50-60% before restructuring, to above 80%.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) - in their Rapid Supervision Assessment FY99, and the ICR team
both concluded that the quality at entry was unsatisfactory. The QAG concluded that the project design
had some technical and major institutional shortcomings, and that lessons learned during previous irrigation
development projects do not appear to have been taken into consideration.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome is unsatisfactory.  By restructuring the project and cancelling groundwater
development in the poorest Eastern outer islands, the major objective to alleviate hard-core poverty in less
developed regions has not been fully achieved. Also, the secondary objective of developing groundwater
resources with least cost appropriate technology was only partially achieved, as it is now evident that the
majority of farmers' groups are only partially capable technically and financially taking on the
responsibility for full maintenance and eventual replacement of the highly technical and costly DTW
systems. Although the responsibility for regular O&M has been formally handed over to the WUAs, the
public sector continues to provide substantial support for major repairs, well redevelopment and pumpset
renewal. During implementation, the project did not follow a participatory approach rigorously and
beneficiaries' involvement in well siting and development has been limited. The ERR is estimated at 5%.
Nevertheless, in those areas where new wells have been constructed, the project has had some positive
impacts, mainly: (a) employment and income generation through increased agricultural production
including high value crops; (b) provision of domestic water, thus improving water availability during dry
season; (c) increased food security; and (d) benefits generated by participating farmers from home garden
activities.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Project components will be discussed and separate evaluations will be made of the physical and
institutional outputs based on original and revised targets.
Survey, Investigation, Design (SID). The SID activities relate to the site and facility selection screening
process and planning and design of irrigation facilities. A major objective of the SID activities was to
evaluate the technical, social and economic viability of each proposed development area. During the first
- 3 -



two project years, technical expertise and budgets were insufficient to cany out proper investigations, while
procurement was continued and approved by the Bank. Combined with a lack of an agro-socio-economic
feasibility assessment (and hence a dominance of technical considerations in site selection), this resulted in
a high failure rate of boreholes and the location of wells in the wrong places. SID activities improved
thereafter when an inter-agency site selection procedure was instituted, taking account of earlier mistakes.
The most important improvement was the introduction of a geo-electrical survey combined with the drilling
of exploratory wells. During this process, potential groundwater areas were identified which can still be
used in future groundwater development. However, by the time the inter-agency procedure was begun the
majority of the wells (of the restructured and downsized project) had already been drilled and the negative
effects could not be corrected.
The tubewell design was changed during the mid-term review. The new design was a compromise between
the conventional DTW and ITTW designs, which allowed for the installation of a variety of pumps,
including submersible pumps, to suit different groundwater conditions. In parallel, a standard exploratory
well was designed which could be developed as a production well if the yield was found to be sufficient.
The new well designs were applied from FY97 onwards with satisfactory results.
In the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the potential irrigable area was based on a discharge at the well head
of 1 I/sec/ha. This was a conservative estimate and it was suggested to monitor and evaluate existing
tubewell systems to establish if the design assumptions could be modified to make the investments more
economical and socially beneficial. Combined with an analysis of project observations it was concluded
that a well head discharge of 0.85 I/sec/ha is acceptable for most (upland) crops, given the lower number of
pumping hours observed in the field. The design assumption estimated in the SAR of at least 1 I/sec/ha at
the well head remains valid for paddy and sugarcane.
Intermediate Technology Tubewell Facilities. The original SAR target was reduced after project
restructuring from 1,865 units to some 680 units. Although this revised target was achieved, only about
480 units (70%) have become successful (delivering 5 I/sec or more). It is estimated that the average actual
water yield per successful unit is about 9 I/sec but could increase to 10 l/sec with installation of appropriate
pumps. This brings the potential total water yield for the project to 4.8 m3/sec as compared to 18.65
m3/sec as stated in the SAR, and 70% of the revised target of 6.8 m3/sec. However, with about 20% of the
pump sets not functional, the present estimated water yield is 3.6 m3/sec, sufficient to irrigate only about
4,200 ha as compared to 18,650 ha, as stated in the SAR and about 60% of the revised target of 6,800 ha.
The potential area could increase to about 5,600 ha if all pumpsets were in good working condition. A
program is underway to replace the poorly performing pumpsets initially procured under the project and
about half the sets have been replaced by more robust models.
Deep Tubewell Facilities. The total number of DTW units remained unchanged at about 240 after project
restructuring. This target was achieved although only about 200 units (80%) have been successful
(delivering 10 I/sec or more). It is estimated that the average actual water yield per unit is about 18 I/sec as
compared to 20-30 I/sec as stated in the SAR. Pump tests reveal that the average yield could be increased
to 26 I/sec if more efficient pumpsets were used. With about 10% of the pumpsets not functional, the
present estimated water yield is 3.2 m3/sec, sufficient to irrigate about 3,800 ha or about 65% of the 6,000
ha appraisal estimate. The potential irrigable area could increase to the appraisal estimate of 6,000 ha if all
pumpsets were in good condition and more compatible with existing well conditions.
Water User Groups. After a tubewell has been successfully tested, then the process of Water User
Association (WUA) formation took place. Member of the WUA are farmers who were involved during
consultation in the site selection process. Despite the formation of the WUA is under P2AT assistance, the
- 4 -



guidance to this group were given by both P2AT and PRIS. By loan closing date about 543 WUAs have
been established, covering project command areas. About 800 training courses have been delivered to the
WUAs, however the activities of the WUA is really depend on the tubewelrs performance.
Initial O&M Support The project was designed to support O&M for two years after commissioning of
the facilities. During that period, beneficiaries were to pay a service fee to the WUAs to build up a cash
reserve for future O&M and pump set replacement. Initial project support for O&M has been highly
variable and even negligible in certain areas. Farmers pay the difference, particularly when pumpset
production is adequate. Accumulated savings vary widely per WUA and amount to Rp.0.3 million to
Rp.1.8 million. The water service fee set and paid by farmers varies from one site to another (Rp.1,500/hr
to Rp.7,500/hr) depending on tubewell or pump type and on members' agreement. The present level of
water service fees is often not totally sufficient for sustaining full levels of maintenance and repairs
(including replacement) once the facilities are handed over to the farmers.  Recently committed
decentralization policy initiatives by the GOI would lead to discontinuing the present practises of
continued public support for heavy maintenance and pumpset replacement, and thus would support transfer
of financial responsibility for O&M to the users.
Domestic Water Supply. The SAR did not set specific targets for the installation of domestic water
supply systems as this would depend on demand from the local communities. About 45 water tanks were
constructed under the project serving about 20,000 people. However, field observations suggest that not all
water systems are functioning. Generally, no water user fee is applied and the beneficiaries consider
domestic water as a free good. In many schemes the construction was in response to a pressing need for
domestic water supply.
Home Garden Irrigation. It was envisaged that the project would demonstrate that additional income
could be provided to the rural poor by developing irrigation for home gardens. Over 590 demonstration
plots have been constructed under the project, or about 61% of the original target. Despite the enthusiasm
shown by women in managing demonstration plots, vegetable production has not been significantly
increased because the emphasis has shifted from home garden to larger scale.
Agricultural Development. The overall outcome of this component has been satisfactory. Once the
irrigation system were in place, and facilities and equipment functioning well, farmers quickly realized the
potential of irrigated agriculture and about 7,000 ha out of a potential of 8,000 ha have been developed for
irrigated farming. Agricultural development initiatives have been conducted as an integral part of the
national extension service. Activities were concentrated on community empowerment and irrigated crop
development. Related activities included training in water management, land management, and
agro-support services. Demonstration plots have been widely and effectively used. The project provided
post-harvest materials, taxi-pumps and production inputs.  Cropping intensities have increased
substantially, although there are great variations between areas. Crop yields are estimated to have increased
by about 20-40%. The Directorate General for Food Crops and Horticulture (DGFCH) has provided
considerable support to the introduction of high-value crops in irrigated crop rotations. However, in terms
of overall land used under high value crops, the impact is still limited.
The project supported a pilot program of shallow tubewells (STWs) as suplementary irrigation to about
500 ha of lands using some 250 taxi-pump sets. This program became very popular amongst farmers and
by the end of the project, some 600 units had been procured and distributed freely to farmer groups,
covering a command area of approximately 3,000 ha of which about one-third can be irrigated at one time.
- 5 -



Community Participation Support The project has been active in training leaders of Water Users'
Associations, Farmer Women Groups and Local Community Organizers. Gender focal points were
designated to work with women's groups with assistance from a Women in Development (WID) specialist.
However, the focal points were not maintained as staff moved out or were transferred or promoted,
resulting in a marginalization of women's activities. Nevertheless, positive changes in women's involvement
have been observed under the project, the results in East Java being the most promising.
Institutional Support.  The project aimed at strengthening institutional performance, primarily for
non-construction tasks such as inter-agency coordination, agricultural development, and monitoring and
evaluation of the performnance of completed works. Office facilities, transportation, equipment and training
were provided under the project as planned.
Groundwater Resource Management. The project supported the PRIS taking responsibility for
monitoring and evaluation of groundwater resource data. This activity was initiated as a pilot operation in
East Java. A Groundwater Resource Management Unit was set up and monitoring of groundwater levels is
being carried out in some 300 observation wells in East Java. The prograrn has yet to be expanded to the
other provinces. A monitoring database has been established, including associated computer equipment
and staff training. Because of lack of operational software, operating budget and functional assignment
and capabilities and analytical skills of staff, it is questionable if the unit will be capable of doing more
than data collection in the foreseeable future. However, in conjunction with the currently on-going GOI
water resources sector reform activities under the WATSAL, it is envisaged that the data collection
modules established under the project would be absorbed into a national integrated MIS for improved
management of surface and groundwater resources.
Consultancy Services. The project employed two international consultants to assist the two lead agencies
with project implementation and institutional capacity building. Unfortunately, consultants were mobilized
one year behind schedule when project activities had already been initiated. Coordination between the
DGWRD and DGFCH consultants improved over time. Due to budget limitations, consultants did not
always spend sufficient time in the field. Although the input of technical assistance was reduced during
project restructuring, its cost still represents a considerable overhead
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The overall impact of the project has been re-evaluated, and the economic rate of return (ERR) re-estimated
using updated prices, final project costs, and data and information on cropped areas, cropping intensities,
crop yields and inputs. The monitoring and evaluation component of the project was inadequate, and
complete findings of the Impact Study were not available. Data used in the analysis are based primarily on
the Agro-Economic Data Base (AEDB) collected by the project staff. Detailed information on these
analyses and assumptions is given in Appendix B.
The ERR was re-estimated at 2.5% as compared with 14.5% estimated in the SAR. The low ERR is
primarily due to: (a) lower than expected discharge per pump unit, thus smaller area under irrigation; (b)
about 35% higher unit costs for tubewells; and (c) slower realisation of expected agricultural production
due to implementation difficulties in early years. To allow comparison with the SAR's estimate, the 2.5%
ERR has been based only on the incremental irrigated areas generated from the DTWs and the ITTWs.
When benefits from STWs and other benefits such as domestic water and home garden vegetables are
included in the benefits stream, the ERR rises to about 5%. On a model basis including only direct costs,
the ERRs of DTW and ITTW units have been re-estimated respectively at 10% and 15% based on: (a) crop
yields, cropping intensities, and cropping patterns prevailing during the project; (b) current 1999 unit costs;
and 3 irrigated areas of 18 ha for DTW and 9 ha for ITTW. The findings indicate that DTW and ITTW
-6 -



are economically justified on a model basis, but that the overhead costs are too heavy to make the whole
project economically viable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
In line with the SAR, the financial impact on a typical farm household of 0.5 ha holding has been
reassessed. The analysis indicates that, on average, the net farm income from an 0.5 ha plot would double
compared with the "without project" situation, and the incremental net farm income was estimated at
US$390 compared with the SAR estimate of US$180, both estimated in 1999 US dollars. The SAR
anticipated that farm income would increase by about 200% to 300%. The financial rates of return (FRRs)
for DTW and ITTW, on a model basis, have been re-estimated respectively at about 13% and 18% based
on the same performance assumption given in the economic models, including satisfactory operation of the
pump units. This result reveals that, on a model basis, financially: (a) investment in DTW is at the
break-even point; and (b) investing in ITTW is more attractive than DTW due primarily to lower
investment cost.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project contributed to improving inter-agency coordination, in particular at the district and sub-district
levels. The institutional performance of DGFCH has improved and has contributed to the favourable
response to irrigated farming. However, improvement of the institutional performance of the Directorate
General of Water Resources Development (DGWRD) has been limited in particular in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of completed works, as has been the case in other projects in the irrigated
agriculture sub-sector.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency.
The Asian financial and monetary crisis came towards the end of the project period and had little effect on
the bulk of implementation. It constrained implementation progress of the last two project years. The
Bank helped to cushion this adverse impact by increasing disbursement percentages, thus giving additional
budget support for the revised program
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Factors generally subject to Government Control. Several factors generally under government's control
adversely affected the project. First, the implementing agencies were re-organized in 1994, after which -
responsibility of project supervisory and guidance was distributed to regional directors instead of under
PAT alone - causing additional problems in project management and coordination. Combined with late
appointment of consultants, this caused difficulty in preparing acceptable integrated annual work plans,
related cost estimates and budget requirements. The appointment of full-timne project coordinators improved
inter-agency coordination at the national level, while the establishment of provincial and district working
groups improved coordination at those levels. Second, late release and in particular shortage of a national
budget for SID activities was a constraint over most of the project life. The late release is an annual event
due to the mismatch in timing of the governments fiscal year and the annual dry season irnplementation
period for civil works. Finally, the weak institutional capacity of implementing agencies which was not
properly addressed in project design, was an impediment to overall project progress.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The following factors affected project execution. First, late employment of project consultants caused
delays in project start-up. Those delays occurred because of generic issues in the general conditions of
contract and slow evaluation procedures. Consultants were mobilized in October 1994, more than one year
- 7 -



behind schedule, instead of in September 1993 as agreed in the Loan Agreement. Second, shortcomings in
SID have caused poor results, particularly during the first two project years. Third, inadequate supervision
(and lack of accountability) and procurement difficulties were serious problem areas that should have been
under the control of project management. Failure to address problems early on has had a lasting negative
impact on project implementation. Fourth, insufficient coordination between the implementing agencies
and lack of dialogue with the potential project beneficiaries, resulted in poor site selection and scheduling of
activities implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Because of downsizing of the project, costs are significantly lower than expected at appraisal. The total
project cost is Rp. 114.6 billion, representing about 66% of the SAR estimate. In US dollar terms, the total
cost is US$34.2 million (using year-by-year weighted average exchange rates), or 40% of the SAR
estimate. Because of an increase in disbursement percentages, in response to the onset of the general
economic crisis in 1998, the IBRD loan financed US$26.3 million or 77% of the total cost, compared to a
SAR estimate of 63%. The gross unit cost amounts to US$4,300 per ha against an appraisal estimate of
US$3,200 estimated in 1999 constant prices. The higher than expected unit cost should mainly be
attributed to inefficient project implementation.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Based on experience with previous projects in the sub-sector, it is likely that the project sustainability will
be highly variable across the project areas and would only be partially attained for the achievements
generated. Factors affecting sustainability include: (a) technical viability: likely high maintenance costs due
to poor quality of equipment and construction works will negatively affect sustainability; (b) diminishing
government support: although the present policy of public sector support in case of heavy maintenance and
pump replacement positively affects sustainability, the current intention of the GOI for decentralization and
management transfer to farmers make it less likely that this will continue in future but sustainability would
be continued or further established at locations where water availability is critical and value-added potential
is highest: (c) varied functional strength of WUAs: although there are strong WUAs created under the
project, the remaining ones are less advanced and rely more on government support; and (d) irrigation
service fee levels: these are collected to cover normal O&M but are often not sufficient to fully build up
savings for major repairs and pump replacement. Generally, pump units were in poor condition and GOI
transferred only the O&M and not the assets, to WlUAs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project is expected to make transition arrangements to regular operation, in particular: (a) completion
of outstanding remedial works and hand over of regular O&M to the remaining WUAs, which will be
formalized and legalized; (b) provision of inputs for the continuation of the groundwater resource
management program in East Java and eventual replication of this program in other groundwater provinces;
(c) continued provision of guidance to farmer-beneficiaries with respect to irrigated agriculture, in
particular, high value crop selection and certified seed production; (d) promotion of community
empowerment, including collective marketing arrangements; and (e) continued guidance on tubewell
management, including the collection of fees, and other physical and administrative aspects of water
distribution. A list of performance indicators by which the project can be monitored is shown in Annex 1.
No further Bank involvement is proposed at this time, although the QAG review panel of July 1999 did
discuss post-loan supervision as a means to monitor GOI commitment. Further groundwater development
preferably should be handled by the private sector, with governments input limited to an advisory role.
- 8 -



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
During identification, the Bank took account of the project's consistency with government's development
strategy and priorities and with the Bank's assistance strategy of the country. An important consideration
was that in some areas (particularly the Outer Islands) groundwater is the only viable source of water and
has to be used to achieve significant increases in agricultural production. Lessons learned from previous
projects were recognized and discussed with government during the preparation phase. Of particular
concern were: (a) the limited institutional capability of the implementing agencies; (b) the strong focus on
exploration and implementation (expenditure) activities and lack of priority with respect to accountability
for performance (quality control) and post-construction activities (achieving benefits, O&M and monitoring
of existing groundwater development); (c) the need for full participation of communities in all stages of the
development process; and (d) ineffectiveness of technical assistance to train and transfer knowledge and
experience to government staff. However, practical solutions to resolve these issues have not adequately
been formulated in the final project design. In spite of lessons drawn from earlier experience, the Bank
agreed to government's request to include all provinces with proven groundwater potential which were not
supported under ongoing donor supported projects, thus increasing the geographical spread, and making
management more complex. Given these considerations, Bank performance during preparation has been
rated unsatisfactory.
Issues like project complexity, weak institutional capacity of the implementing agencies combined with a
pending reorganisation of DGWRD - the main implementing agency, difficulty of Bank supervision
because of the geographical spread, and questionable project economic viability were discussed at the
appraisal stage. The appraisal team reported that sufficient safeguards were in place and that the project
design was adequate to cope with these issues. This tumed out to be overly optimistic as the existing
culture of focusing on expenditure activities remained the driving force of project implementation. Issues
like beneficiary participation and accountability for performance were not given sufficient weight. Bank
performance during appraisal has been rated as unsatisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank provided regular supervision missions Refer QAG - Rapid Supervision Assessment in FY 97 and
FY 99 and, as the task was initially managed by the Resident Mission, the project received considerable
support up to the mid-term restructuring mission in 1996, after which the project was managed from
Washington. Project implementation progress was adequately reported and implementation problems were
identified early and performance ratings were realistic. Because of early unsatisfactory project
implementation and development impact ratings, the mid-term review mission was mobilised at an early
stage. Following the mid-term review, the Bank proposed to GOI that the project be essentially closed, but
the government did not agree to the proposal. After lengthy discussions with government and a de-facto
hiatus in many project activities for several months, a compromise was reached. The compromise resulted
in allowing for a major downsizing of project activities by continuing activities only in the least risk
provinces. The project has been rated "unsatisfactory" in six of the last eight supervision missions. The task
management team has provided appropriate guidance, despite constraints by project design shortcomings in
technical and institutional aspects. Bank performance during supervision has been rated satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Because of the unsatisfactory performance during preparation and appraisal, and poor outcome of the
project, overall Bank performance has been rated unsatisfactory.
-9-



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower's performance during preparation has been unsatisfactory. Although lessons learned from
previous projects were recognized, they were not sufficiently incorporated in the project's design. The
Government had also insisted that the project cover a large number of provinces, making it unduly complex
and less manageable.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The role of the project's coordinating agency, BAPPENAS, would have been more effective with the
presence of a specially assigned coordination unit. Coordination during the first project years remained
weak, and responsibility for day-to-day coordination was delegated to DGWRD. This did not provide an
effective inter-agency solution and coordination remained a problem. Insufficient local funding was made
available for SID activities. Government implementation performance has been rated unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Compliance with covenants, progress reporting, and accounts and audits were generally satisfactory.
However, the implementation schedules for the first two project years were based on incomplete surveys
and inadequate site selection procedures. Moreover, there's delay in engaging the Technical Assistance
(TA) and well drilling supervision was deficient. The implementing agency did not meet the requirements of
the intended program particularly in the procurement of equipment and materials, by DGWRD. As a
result, low quality, under-performing ITTW pumpsets and inferior well screens were delivered. Avoidance
of such difficulties would have required timely attention and enforcement of suppliers' performance
guarantees. Monitoring and evaluation and beneficiary participation were inadequate. The implementing
agency's performance was rated unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
Because of unsatisfactory performance in preparation, and government and implementing agency
performance, overall borrower performance has been rated unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the project, in order of importance, are as follows:
*   Project design must be in line with the implementation capacities of the designated institutions
The original design was too ambitious and led to serious operational and implementation management
difficulties including drastic restructuring. Intended stakeholders must be involved with the
conceptualization, planning, design and implementation of project, so as to ensure realistic programs
and phasing. In this project, the lack of participatory approaches, full assessment of capacities and
roles of GOI, private sector providers and users as well as lack of demand-driven implementation led to
faulty siting of many wells, less that optimnal adoption and utilization of the technology, procurement of
inferior quality equipment and installations.
* Complex projects with geographically dispersed activities could be more successfully
implemented at a more decentralised level where good coordination and management are more
responsive to the needs from the field. For the same reason, supervision would need to be intensified
and through the World Bank resident mission to enable on-going interaction between the Borrower
and the Bank.
*   Quality control and assurance of tubewells must be rigorously pursued by project management.
Critical structures of tubewells are underground, thus repairs and replacement are difficult after
- 10-



implementation. Provision should be made for assessment of implementation capacities and that
required technical assistance is structured to support such capacity building of client agencies and
private sector service providers to assure that industry standard specifications and standards are met.
Since the schemes would be managed by farmer groups, selection of pump and engine should
incorporate farmers' preference and the availability of spare parts in local market.
* Government must transfer ownership of equipment and wells to WUA, in addition to O&M
responsibility, after providing adequate guidance and training, and consider the establishing of a
locally administered asset replacement fund in order to prolong sustainable operation and management
of installed works beyond the expected project period. The transfer of management and assets to users
is considered essential to establishing ownership and responsibility for longer term operational
* sustainability.
*  Successful diversification of crop production depends on obtaining farmers' confidence; project
design should be based on increased productivity from existing crops and the introduction of
diversification, new enterprises (i.e. high value crops) should only be made when such modified
farming systems are fully developed and accepted through extensive testing and extension support.
* Intersectoral coordination mechanisms must be established before implementation take place
This is very important, especially during the site selection process when the potential aquifer, soil
suitability and land use are to be overlaid.
It should be noted that although many of these issues were recognised at the time of appraisal based on the
experience of previous projects, they were not adequately incorporated into project design and
irnplementation.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1.  INTRODUCTION
In response to the request, the Bank sent an appraisal mission to Indonesia in September/October
1992. The mission agreed with GOI: (I) the concept, objectives, and scope of the proposed
project; (ii) institutional arrangements; (iii) procedures for coordination at national and provincial
levels; and (iv) post-appraisal action. Resulting from this appraisal, the loan agreement for
GWDP, Loan 3588-IND, was signed between the Bank and GOI on May 26, 1993, and became
effective on July 6, 1993, loan closing date on December 31, 1999.
2.   PROJECT BACKGROUND
2.1  Project Objectives
The major project objective was to develop groundwater irrigation in less developed regions to
help alleviate hard core poverty. Technical objectives were to promote multipurpose use of
groundwater resources and to develop least-cost, appropriate technology that could be sustained
by user groups with minimal public sector support.
2.2  Project Components
Project components, as defined for the purposes of the Loan Agreement and together with the
concemed GOI executing agencies, were:
- 11 -



Component                                                  Executing Agency
Part A:   Surveys, Investigations, & Design                 DGWRD, DGFCA
Part B:   Construction of Groundwater Facilities           DGWRD
Part C:   Initial Support for O&M of Tubewell Facilities   DGWRD
Part D:   Agricultural Development                          DGFCA
Part E:   Community Participation                           DGWRD
Part F:   Institutional/Support                             DGWRD, DGFCA
Part G:   Groundwater Resources Management                  DGWRD
2.3  Scope of Project Activities
In line with the objectives and components of the project, the scope of project activities included:
(a)  construction of some 1,900 intermediate technology tubewells (ITTWs) to serve about
18,650 ha;
(b)  construction of some 240 deep tubewells (DTWs) to serve about 6,000 ha.
(c)  promotion of multipurpose use of groundwater, in particular domestic water supply and
irrigation of house garden plots;
(d)  agricultural development activities;
(e)  strengthening of the involved GOI institutions and their implementation procedures; private
sector involvement, through community participation in the project, including establishment
of Water Users' Associations (WUAs) and promotion of women's activities;
(g)  monitoring and evaluation of irrigation and agricultural outcomes of the project;
(h)  strengthening the monitoring, evaluation, and regulation of groundwater resources.
(i)  training of GOI staff, and WUA/FWG members and other beneficiaries, in order to fully
capture project benefits.
The provinces included in the project were Aceh, North Sumatra, West Sumatra, Lampung, West
Java, East Java, Nusa Tenggara Barat, Nusa Tenggara Timur, North Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi,
and South Sulawesi.
3.   PROJECT ORGANISATION & COORDINATION
3.1  Project Organisation
The project was designed to be implemented under existing GOI organisational structures for
groundwater development. The main implementing agency at the national level was
Pengembangan Air Tanah (PAT). At the start of the project PAT was a sub-directorate of the
Directorate of Irrigation II (DOI-II) of the Directorate General of Water Resources Development
(DGWRD) within the Ministry of Public Works (MPW). In 1987, DOI-I was dissolved, and
PAT became a sub-directorate under the newly-formed Directorate of Technical Guidance. At the
provincial level, PAT interests were the responsibility of the Proyek Pengembangan Air Tanah
(P2AT) offices, which operated under the direction of the Provincial Irrigation Service (PRIS).
The PAT and P2AT offices would be responsible for planning, design, and construction of the
tubewell systems and related works, and for O&M of the completed works during the first two
years after completion of well installation. After this period, O&M of the works would become the
responsibility of the WUAs to be established under the Project.
3.2  Coordination of Project Activities
Coordination of Project activities, including planning and integration of budget proposals, would
- 12 -



be undertaken at national and provincial levels by BAPPENAS (the national planning agency)
and BAPPEDA (the provincial planning bodies) respectively. Through the Project, the
Interagency Irrigation Committees (liCs) at provincial, district, and sub-district levels would
become oriented more towards groundwater development than in the past, and used as the local
coordination mechanisms. In this respect, the district level committee chaired by the district
officer (Bupati, or his nominee) would have the most important role.
4.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD & PROJECT COSTS
4.1  Project Period
Project implementation commenced in FY 1994/95, in accordance with the annual work programs
outlined in the SAR, and was originally scheduled to be completed by June 30, 1999. Loan
closing date was December 31, 1999. Consulting services started on October 1, 1994 and were
scheduled to be completed by September 30, 1997. The period of the consulting services was
extended twice, initially to March 31, 1999 and subsequently until December 31, 1999, to
correspond to revised activity schedules agreed with the Bank.
4.2  Changes in Project Scope
A Bank comprehensive review mission in January/February 1996 estimated that the EIRR of the
Project had been reduced to an unacceptably low level.
As a result of this assessment, and after appropriate discussions and consultations, GOI and the
Bank agreed to reduce the scope of the Project from FY 1996/97 onwards and introduce
procedures to increase the likelihood of eventual success.
4.3  Amendment of Loan
The original loan of US$ 54.0 million was reduced to US$ 26.86 million by cancellations of US$
18.94 million in February 1997, US$ 6.00 million in August 1998 and a further US$ 2.2 million
in June 1999. These reductions were mostly resulted from agreed reductions in Project scope.
4.4  Project Costs
Total Project expenditure, estimated on the basis of actual expenditure to FY 1998/99 and
projected expenditure up to December 31,1999 during FY 1999/00, is Rupiah 114.6 billion. This
cost is Rupiah 59.5 billion less than the SAR estimate of Rp. 174.1 billion and reflects the reduced
scope of the Project agreed during the implementation period.  Annual expenditures, by
Indonesian fiscal year, are shown in the table following.
ANNUAL EXPEND1TURES                                             Unit: Rupiah billion
94/95    95/96   96/97   97/98    98/99   99/00       Total
(Estimated)
DGWRD           9.10    20.13    17.99   16.03    12.59    12.96      88.80
DGFCH           3.16    4.13    4.74    4.84      5.23    3.74        25.64
Annual Total    12.26   24.26   22.73    20.87    17.82    16.70      114.64
Cumulative      12.26   36.52   59.52   80.12    97.94    114.64
Total         I  ___   I  __I_I_I
Notes: 1. Expenditures exclude DGWRD administration costs
4.5     Loan Disbursements
Loan disbursements reached US$ 26.3 million by the end of FY 99/00. Disbursements are
- 13 -



summarized by loan category as follows:
Here under a summary of the loan as of June 20th, 2000:
Categories                                       USD
1A- civil works                              5,155,932.20
lB- civil works                                 27,142.41
2A- Equipment & materials-B&D                8,346,149.48
2B- Equipment & materials - F&G                197,866.77
3- Survey investigation & design              1,159,083.41
4- Agricultural support                       1,248,689.70
5- Institutional support                       972,966.64
6- Operation & maintenance                     342,152.63
7- Studies                                     234,169.45
8- Training                                   1,660,048.94
9- Consultants services                      6,951,037.55
Sub-Total disbursed                          26,295,239.18
Sub-Total canceled                           27,140,000.00
SA to be reimbursed                            452,381.57
Balance                                        112,379.25
Total LOAN                                   54,000.000.00
NB: The SA will be reimbursed and the final cancellation for closincj should be USD 564, 760.82
5.   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.1  Implementation Constraints
The major constraints encountered during Project implementation that arose from factors outside
the control of the Project were: the economic crisis in late 1997, thel997 drought prompted GOI
to mount a number of agricultural crash programs, restricted capacity of institutional and
agricultural support services.
5.2  Resolution of Specific Problems
Resolution of early problems concerning site selection and tubewell design were critical to the
shape of the restructured Project and to subsequent Project achievements. Several aspect have
been reviewed accordingly such as : tubewell site selection procedure, to carry out geo-electrical
survey and tubewell design.
Accordingly, the Bank comprehensive appraisal mission of February 1996 suggested that one
design of tubewell should be adopted for all GWDP areas. This design would be a compromise
between the conventional DTW and ITTW design, and significantly would allow installation of a
variety of pumps, including submersible pumps, to suit a variety of groundwater conditions.
In parallel with this re-design of production wells, a standard exploratory well was designed, the
significant feature of which was that it could be developed as a production well if the yield was
found to be sufficient.
- 14 -



5.3 Physical Achievements
Major physical achievements are summarised in the table below.
SUMMARY OF MAJOR PHYSICAL ACHIEVEMENTS
=    Original   Revised    Achieve-
Item                                      Unit  SAR         Target     ment
Target
Tubewells (DTWs & ITTWs)                       I
Deep tubewells (DTWs) installed           no    243         245        245
Intermediate  technology   TWs  (ITWs)  no    1865          680        680
installed
Pump discharge at commissioning          ltr/   24,650      10,588      10,038
sec
Shallow Tubewells (STWS, 'Taxi Pumps")
Taxi pumps procured & utilised            no    250         n/a        584
Domestic Water Supply (DWS) from TWs
DWS systems installed                     no    n/a         48         44
Irrigation Demonstrations
Field demonstrations conducted            no     1,940      1,265       1,793
House garden demonstrations conducted     no    970         401        591
Agricultural Training
GOI staff trained                         no    286         484        577
Farner WUA courses held                   no     10,000     1,135      803
FWG courses held                          no    n/a         n/a        471
WUA/FWG Leaders & LCO courses held        no    n/a         n/a        219
Taxi pump courses for farmers held        no    250         162        75
Groundwater Monitoring
New observation wells constructed         no     120        50         31
Observation wells monitored (new + existing)   no    120    100         105
Agricultural Production
The achievements outlined in the preceding paragraphs have resulted in increases in agricultural
production which are summarised in the table following.
- 15 -



SUMMARY OF AGRICULTURAL ACHIIEVEMENTS
Item                  Unit   Pre-Project       Original         Achievement
(per SAR)        SAR Target      Acivmn
Crops & Areas
Padi (wet season)     Ha      19,995           22,970           10,038
Padi (dry season)     Ha      916              9,906            7,528
Palawija              Ha      17,304           29,074           5,019
T.B.D.                Ha      200              6,630            3,011
Cropping Intensity
Cropping Intensity    %       155%             278%             255%
Average Crop Yields    T/ha   3.0              4.8              5.1
Padi                  T/ha   0.8               1.3              1.3
Soybean               T/ha   1.8               3.0              4.5
Maize                 T/ha   0.7               1.2              1.3
Groundnut             T/ha   n/a               7.0              7.5
Shallot               T/ha   n/a               4.5              4.8
Chilli
Consulting Services
Consultants have been engaged to assist GOI in Project implementation according to TORs
agreed with the Bank. Utilisation of the consultants, in terms of professional man-months used,
was as shown in the table overleaf.
- 16 -



CONSULTING SERVICES                      Unit: Man-Months
SAR           Original       Revised
Estimate      Contract       Contract
DGWRD          Foreign       164.0         164.0          103.0
National     528.0          528.0         308.0
DGFCH          Foreign       130.0         127.0          102.5
National     396.0          396.0         329.7
Total          Foreign       294.0         291.0          205.5
National     924.0          924.0         637.7
5.4  Economic Achievements
In view of the Bank's concern over the possible low return on Project investment, which led to the
agreed reduction in Project scope from FY 1996/97, efforts have been made during preparation of
this report to assess the actual return in detail. Two stages analysis carried out in November and
December 1999.
The achieved return is 39.6% (November) and 19.1% (December).
6.   REMAINING & FUTURE WORKS
6.1  DGWRD Remaining & Remedial Works
In order to rectify shortages and deficiencies in TW installation and performance, and as agreed
with the Bank during the April/May 1999 review mission, a program of completion and remedial
works is in hand during FY 1999/00. The works being undertaken comprise of
redevelopment/cleaning of tubewell, construction of remaining pump house and distribution
system, procurement and installation 47 electric submersible pump.
6.2  Procurement and Installation of 47 Electric Submersible Pumps
Following the Bank NOL in August 1999, the Contract has been signed on September 15, 1999.
The Caprari electric submersible pumps which is made in Italy were arrived in Tanjung Priok /
Jakarta on I December 1999 for further testing and resetting at P.T. Indopump Lestari
Warehouse in Bandung and have been completed on 10 February 2000. In the meantime those
pump already tested has been sent to the project sites directly.
Installation of the above pump in each projects area would be carried out soon after received at
site and at the latest by end of March 2000, as committed by DGWRD.
6.3  Post-Loan Operation Plan
The joint DGWRD/DGFCH Post Loan Operational Plan includes the following items:
DGWRD Activities, such as : formation of remaining WVvUAs, completion of the outstanding of
remedial works, initial 0 & M and continuation of the groundwater resources management in
East Java.
- 17-



DGFCH Activities, such as: provision of guidance of beneficiary of agriculture development,
promotion community empowerment and tubewell management.
Joint DGWRD/DGFCH Activities, such as: liaison with the WUAs to ensure O&M fee are
collected, and provision of guidance 0 & M of TW system.
7.   ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME & LESSONS LEARNED
7.1  Assessment of Project Outcome
Although progress during the early years of the Project did not meet expectations, it is considered
that the restructuring initiated during the February 1996 comprehensive review mission proved
successful and that the outcome of the Project was satisfactory, in terms of both return on
investment and achievement of major socio-economic objectives.
The geo-electrical surveys carried out as part of the restructured Project procedures have
identified some 176,000 ha of potentially productive aquifers spread over 9 provinces. This
fnding indicates that further groundwater development may be feasible and is a satisfactory
outcome of the Project.
Project outcome with respect to improved coordination between GOI agencies is less satisfactory.
The Project has not yet achieved the ambitious targets set relating to community participation,
particularly with regard to community take-over of O&M responsibilities.
7.2  Special Study of Impact of GWDP
The overall conclusions of the study were that cropping intensities, yields, and net farm incomes
were higher in the newly-irrigated areas, and that there was no evidence of negative environmental
impacts (such as permanent lowering of the groundwater table and saline intrusion) resulting from
the Project.
7.3  Future Uncertainties
In the longer term, the foundation for Project sustainability is the willingness and capability of the
WUAs to take responsibility for operation and maintenance of the irrigation systems.
- 18 -



7.4 Lessons Learned
Technical Lessons
The "go-ahead" schemes were identified on the basis of incomplete hydro-geological information,
and the need for more positive identification of groundwater locations was not appreciated. The
aquifers in Indonesia are generally found in local pockets and do not cover extensive areas.
Hydrogeological characteristics also vary within short distances. Intensive prior investigation
work, including drilling of exploratory wells, is necessary to ensure the best chance of satisfactorv
aquifer yields.
Taxi pumps have many advantages over fixed pumps and should be used wherever possible.
These advantages include no detailed survey, easily procured and setup, simple low capital O&M.
Socio-Economic Lessons
Establishment of WUAs would be better handled by DGFCH, so that foundations are laid for
long-term interaction between field PRAS staff and the beneficiaries. The involvement of PRAS
in the commissioning and hand-over of TWs is necessary to ensure sustainability of WUA
activities in the post project period.
Community participation is a key factor in ensuring a successful and sustainable Project outcome,
and the participative rather than the instructional approach should be adopted.
A change to high-value crops cannot be achieved in the short term. In this respect Project targets
were too optimistic. It has been found that the key ingredient for such a change is farmer
confidence, which can be promoted only to a limited extent by demonstrations and training. It is
more realistic to plan on a two-stage approach: firstly, an increase in cropping intensity, then
diversification.
Groundwater in the Next Millenium
It is considered that the Project has demonstrated that farmer in groundwater areas are more
diligent in using water efficiently than those in surface irrigation schemes where practices tend to
be more traditional and conservative.
8.   BANK AND BORROWER / GOI PERFORMANCE
8.1  Bank Performance
The ambitiously appraised projects, which was located spread over wide areas in 11 Project
Provinces was complex and difficult to manage and required extensive supervision.
Appraisal assumptions and uniform criteria of TW facility design for benefit prediction in the
area of agricultural production improvement, O&M sustainability and institutional capacity to
implement have been too optimistic.
8.2  Borrower Performance
Project Coordination was less satisfactory almost in all level. BAPPENAS (the National Planning
Agency) and BAPPEDA (the Provincial Planning Bodies) are responsible of Coordination
activities. Inter-agency Irrigation Committee (IIC) at provincial, district and sub district level was
- 19 -



not effectively work due to the lack of financial support. The wide spread of project location in 11
Provinces made the coordination at national level become more complicated resulting weak
coordination.
Following reorganization of DGWRD in 1994, the role of Subdit. PAT under Directorate of
Irrigation II as reported during Appraisal stage (SAR) was splitted and shared among Directorate
of Technical Guidance, Directorate of Construction Guidance and Loan Coordinator / BPP.
Inadequate GOI fund support due to the monetary condition, for field supervisory activities
without provision of field transportation mean, combined with ineffective coordination resulting
of less supervision intensity.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 20 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 1
Key Performance Indicators
Outcome/Impact Indicators
Indicator                         Projected in SAR/PAD         Actual/Latest Estimate
123                          90
Increased Cropping Intensity (%)                                 123
Yield Increased (%)                                            40 - 70              20 - 40, except maize 70%
Beneficiaries (Families)                                       50,000                        21,000
Increased in Farm Income USDl0,5 ha                              180                          390
Establishment of WUA/FA                                          NA                           543
Developed groundwater irrigation in less developed               NA                    Marginally achieved
region
Developed least cost appropriate technology                      NA                     Partially achieved
Strengthened GOI's planning & implementation capacity            NA                     Partially achieved
Output Indicators:
Indicator                        Projected in SAR/PAD*         Actual/Latest Estimate
NDeep tubewells (DTWs) drilled (No.)                             265                           245
Successful DTWs (No.)                                            243                           200
Functioning DTWs  (No.)                                          243                           180
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 21 -
Intermediate tubewells (ITTWs) drilled (No.)                    1,865                          680
Successful ITTWs (No.)                                          1,865                          480
Functioning ITTWs (No.)                          _1,865                                        400
|Taxi pumps (No.)                                                  250                          580
Commrand area served (ha)                                      25,000                        8,000
Command area presently irrigated (ha)                          25,000                        7,000
Domestic water supply installed (No.)                            NA                             45
Field demonstrations (No.)                                     I1.940                        I1,790
Home garden demonstrations (No.)                                  970                          590
Various training (courses)                                     10,286                        2,070
New observation wells constructed (No.)                           120                           3 1
Observation wells monitored (No.)       _240                                                   284
-21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Component                    Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest Estimate      Percentage of
Appraisal
A. Works                            _
- Tubewell irrigation                         19.6                       10.8                   55.1
- Domestic water supply                        1.7                        0.2                   11.7
- Observation wells                            0.3                        0.5                  166.6
B. Equipment & Materials
- Tubewells equipment/materials               23.1                        8.3                   35.9
- Office and survey equipment                  0.9                        0.7                   77.7
- Vehicles                                     0.7                        0.1                   14.2
C. Services
- Survey, investigation & design               0.8                        1.3                  162.5
- Agricultural support                         0.8                        1.0                  125.0
- Institutional support                        5.0                        1.6                   32.0
- Initial O&M support                          2.6                        0.4                   15.4
D. Training                                    1.6                        1.7                  106.2
E. Consultants
- Consultancy services                        10.1                        7.0                   69.3
- Special studies                              0.6                        0.2                   33.3
F. Project Administration                      2.8                        0.6                   21.4
Base Cost                                     70.6                       34.2                   48.4
Physical Contingencies                         3.2
Price Contingencies                           11.1
Total Project Cost                         84.9                       34.2                   40.2
Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements (A raisal Estimate) (US$ million e uivalent)
1. Works                            0.00             27.60            0.00            0.00            27.60
(0.00)          (11.20)          (0.00)          (0.00)           (11.20)
2. Goods                            26.70            1.30             0.30            0.70            29.00
(23.20)          (1.00)          (0.30)           (0.00)          (24.50)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00            12.90            0.00             12.90
(0.00)          (0.00)           (7.80)          (0.00)           (7.80)
4. Consultancies                    0.00             0.00            12.00            0.00             12.00
(0.00)          (0.00)          (10.50)          (0.00)           (10.50)
S. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00             0.00            3.40             3.40
(0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)           (0.00)
Total                           26.70            28.90            25.20            4.10            84.90
(23.20)         (12.20)          (18.60)          (0.00)          (54.00)
-22 -



Project Costs by Procuremen tArrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivaIent)
ExpndMt"r Caftgory             oIL.                                                      T      't
.   .  .    -                  P~~~~~~~~urS -M<r~~of,                        T  a i  W 
,  i. ,, . . l ~N9, 
1. Works                                         10.60           0.60           0.00            1120
(0.00)         (4.92)          (0.28)         (0.00)          (5.20)
2. Goods                          7.20            1.40           0.30           0.20            9.10
(7.10)         (1.20)          (0.20)         (0.00)          (8.50)
3. Services                       0.00            2.30           3.80            0.00           6.10
(0.00)         (1.90)          (3.50)         (0.00)          (5.40)
4. Consultancies                  6.40            0.80           0.00            0.00           7.20
(6.40)         (0.80)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (7.20)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00            0.00           0.00            0.60           0.60
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         13.60           15.10           4.70            0.80           34.20
(13.50)         (8.82)         (3.98)          (0.00)         (26.30)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financingby Co mponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Works                     11.20      16.40      0.00       5.20       6.00      0.00     46.4   36.6    0.0
Goods                     24.50      4.50       0.00       8.50       0.60      0.00     34.7   13.3    0.0
Services & Training       7.70       5.20       0.00       5.40       0.70      0.00     70.1   13.5    0.0
Consultancies             10.60      1.40       0.00       7.20       0.00      0.00     67.9    0.0    0.0
Miscellaneous             0.00       3.40       0.00       0.00       0.60      0.00      0.0    17.6   0.0
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis                  Financial Analysis
Appraisal          Latest         Appraisal           Latest
Estimates                          Estimates
ERR %                                 14.5               5
Command area/DTW (ha)                20-30              20              20-30              20
Command area/ITW (ha)                  10               10                10               10
Incremental paddy production         83,000            18,000
(tons)
Incremental palawija production      33,000            16,000
(tons)
Incremental high value crops          NA               3,500
production (tons) _
Incremental farm income                                                  180               390
(per 0.5 ha) (US$)
-24-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Pr5ject Cycle              No. of Pesons and Specity                 Performae  g
(e.g 2 Ecnomists, 1 FMS, etca)      Implemention       Development
MontlYear    Count        Specialty                        Prgpess           Objective
Identification/Preparation
Sept/Oct. 91                  3   G; (1(2);
April/May 92                  9   C; E(2); D; G; 1(2); W(2);
Appraisal/Negotiation
SeptlOct. 92                  5   C; E; G; I; W;
Supervision
1) Sept/Oct. 93               8  A; C; G; In; 1(3); W;                 S                  S
2) April 93                    4  A; C; G; I; W;                        S                 S
3) Nov. 94                     5  A; Dw; G; I; W;                      U                  U
4) July/Aug. 95                5  A; Dw; G; I; W;                      U                  U
5) (mid-term) Jan/Feb.96       6  A; Dw; E; G; I; W;                   U                  U
6) Oct/No. 96                  4  A; E; I; W;                           S                 S
7) June 97                     6  A; Dw; E; G; I; W;                    S                 S
8) May/June 98                 6  C; Dw; G; I; W; Wr;                  U                  U
9) Nov.Dec. 98                 6  A; D; E; G; I; Wr;                   U                  U
10) April/may 99              4  A; Dw; I; Wr;                         U                  U
ICR
Supervision 11                7   A; Dw; I; Wr; E; I; Rd;              U                  U
(FAO)
a/ A = Agronomist; C = Community Development; D = Disbursement; Dw = Drinkwater;
E = Economist(agro); G = Groundwater; I = Irrigation Eng.; In = Institutions; Rd = Rural Dev. Eng.;
Wr = Water Resources; W = Women in Development.
b/ U  Unsatisfactory; S = Satisfactory; 1 = no significant problems; 2 = moderate problems.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               M USS (OO)
Identification/Preparation               65.4                       217.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                   100.1                       297.6
Supervision                             188.7                       410.5
ICR                                      13.8                        40.0
Total                                   368.0                       965.3
a/ Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants.
-25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Ol Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
ZSector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
2 Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
N Institutional Development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                           O H * SU O M O N O NA
0 Other (Please specify)
O Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
O Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
-26 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
F? Lending                                          OHS OS  *U  OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS  OtU  OHU
E Overall                                           OHS OS * U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS   * u  O HU
El Government implementation performance            O HS O S  * U  0 HU
ER Implementation agency performance                OHS OS  *U  O HU
E Overall                                           OHS OS  * U  O HU
-27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide-M6moire of the ICR Team
2. Financial and Economic Analysis
3. Notes on Technical Aspects of Irrigation
4. Government's Contribution to the ICR
5. Various Reports Prepared by the Borrower
-28 -









So.uth China Sea                                                                                                   .
8; aqz L 4S3 fa^At                                                         /                                     \ / )  < Celebes
INDONESIA                                   POW*OI~   Yogyaka              AWA            KALtMANTAN TIM
GROUNDWATER DET P                                           CTePr KALIMANTAN BA                                         d                        S
10'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
Supoe  ra *t    NoS no                   - pitalsIMNDAN OEANG                                    )1O T/ g EanMURLA 
h1tO~~~~~~~05                                                                                                   Timor SeaP4agkooy
~~~t Baa  -< We  sttarkak                                                                                       g        y   
9 f3Eh<KUL    SU) MATERA(3nb-t >         t paree rs ndiisc                                                               f the intal ue3f T
tC SELATAN                     J                      ,                                                                                        t
Thnur   EasKrbtq                                                                                                  ftr   
sen       Ph                                      -                                                                               boundaries shown navc  Sea  TENGGApRA
Tengb -                                                               i               s                                 te prt o Th Word BakGrup, ny udgmero
vtsJAKARTA                                                     Gowa Takocic 
1 ~~~~Subaxng fAWAG
_ t+    tw   *iF;t 9~~~~ NUSA1ENGA    6 it 
INDONESIA                                                                .jAW4 Tad       BALI bioike    aenefhb drs
GROUDWATER DEEOMN                                                                                                                         ThimaOseeECTeP
o   Tmur   East     -               SX  O        Xa7     2a7     aF       a7      s07                     (BG                     =                  c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  TOR lo
0~~~~~aiu Are In3 Ecme Jaw*                   mnemaFna                                                                                               or acct7iptcTimo ofsdSbudrea



