Report No. 1007-AL                                                        FtLE  CPt
Appraisal of a
Second Education Project in the
Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
January 27, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise
be disclosed w'ithout World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $ 1.00        =      Algerian Dinar (D.A.) 3.834
DA 1.000         -      US $ 0.26
MEASURES
1 m          -       3.28 feet
i2           =       10.76 sq. ft.
l km2                0.38 sq. mile
1 hectare    =       2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFIC[UL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF
ALGERIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..................................   i-ii
I. INTRODUCTION.                                                      1
II.   COUNTRY BACKGROUND ........................      .    . .        2
Economic Development Since Independence.                         2
Economic Development Strategy.                                   3
Manpower Requirements.                                           3
III.   THE EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT SECTOR.                   5
The Developing Structure of the Education System.                5
Reorganization of the Education System.                          6
Education Development Strategy.                                  8
Education Finances.                                              9
IV. THE PROJECT .10
Objectives ...............................................    10
Institute of Electricity and Electronics .10
Technical Assistance for Primary and Secondary
Education Reform    ..13
Pre-investment Studies on Vocational Training  .     .14
Pre-Investment Studies for Higher Education.                    14
Cost Estimates ...........................................    16
Financial Plan    ..17
Implementation .........................................        18
Retroactive Financig    ..19
Disbursements           ........................    20
V. BENEFITS .20
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclsed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Contd.)
ANNEXES
1. Comparative Education Indicators
2. Projected Average Annual Manpower Requirements and Supply to 1990
3. The Developing Structure of the Formal Education and Training System
1971-1975
4. Education Pyramid 1973-1974
5. Education Development Strategy, Plans and Programs - A Summary Evaluation
6. Basic Data on University Education
7. Institutes of Technology, 1972-73
8. Actual and Projected Enrollments 1973/74-1984/85
9. Education Finance
10. Institute of Electricity and Electronics - Organization Chart
11. Pre-investment Study on the Development of Vocational Training Centers
12. Unit Capital Costs and Areas
13. Project Costs by Type of Expenditure
14. Contingency Allowances
15. Financial Plan
16. Project Implementation Schedule
17. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
MAP
IBRD 11799



GLOSSARY
Fundamental Education:   Univers,l basic education extending over grades
1 - 9 and divided into two cycles - elementary
education (grades 1 - 6) end "polytechnic" Pdu-
cation (CollTge d'Enseignement Polytechnise;
grades 7 - 9).
Lycee:                    First and second cycle secondary school (grades
7 - 13) offering after grade 10 specialized
streams in Arabic, Hunanities, Mathematics and
Sciences (General Lycees) or in Industrial Arts,
Mathematics, Commerce and Economics (Technical
Lycees). Upon completing courses and passing
the required examinations, students are awarded
the "Baccalaureat" (various specializations)
which qualifies for entry into university.
Technicum:                A new type of technical school with strong
vocational bias, which will gradually replace
the more academically-oriented Technical Lycees
and will offer courses of variable duration
following completion of Fundamental Education.
Institute of Technology: A new type of secondary and/or post-secondary
institution providing intensive, specialized
and job-oriented training for professional and
para-professional personnel, with flexible entry
requirements and strong emphasis on practical
subjects. Courses vary from It to 5 years Rfter
grades 12 - 13 for the professional level and
from 1 to 4 years for the technician level.
Ministries
MHESR:      Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
MLSA:       Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs
MOIE:       Ministry of Industry and Energy
MPSE:       Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
Institutions
IEE:        Institute of Electricity and Electronics
IMMA:       Institute of Mining and Metallurgy of Annaba
IPN:        National Pedagogical Institute, now renamed "tEducational
Research and Development Center"
USTA:       University of Science and Technology of Algiers



GLOSSARY (Continued)
Societes Nationales
SONACOME:   Societe Nationale de Constructions M6caniques
SONATRACH: Societe Nationale pour la Recherche, la Production,
le Transport, la Transformation et la Commercialisation
des Hydrocarbures
SONELEC:    Societe Nationile de Fabrication et de Montage de Materiel
Electronique
SONELGAZ:   Societe. Nqtionqle de 1'Electricite et du Gaz
SNS:         Societe Nationale de Siderurgie



ALGERIA
BASIC DATA 1974 L
Area                                         2,293,190 km2
Population:                                  15.2 million
of which:  urban                            5.9 million (39%)
rural                            9.3 million (61%)
Current Population Growth:                   3.3%
Literacy Rate (1970):                        25% of adult population
GNP per capita:                              US $ 876
Primary School Net Enrollment Ratio
(Age Group 6 - 13):                        67.2%
Secondary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 12 - 18:           20.9%
Higher Education Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 19 - 23:           3.5%
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage-of Total
Government Expenditures (1973):            27.9%
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of GDP
(1973):                                     9.2%
j   See Annexes 1, 3 and 4 for comparative educational data, the
structure of the education and training system, and the educational
pyramid.
j Including overaged students.






SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The education and training system in Algeria is expected to play
an essential role in implementing the country's development strategy by: (1)
creating a socio-cultural environment imbued with Arab-Algerian cultural
values and conducive to economic development, and (ii) responding quickly to
the demand for skilled manpower generated by the industrialization of the
country and the rapid growth of the economy. Accordingly, the two main goals
of educational development are: (i) provision of nine years of "fundamental
education*' to all Algerian children by the mid 1980's; and (ii) continuous
rapid expansion and reorientation of secondary and post-secondary education
with emphasis on scientific and technological fields.
ii.       A first education project, approved in 1973, is assisting in the
implementation of this strategy by supporting technological institutes which
are supplying highly skilled technical manpower for critical sectors of the
Algerian economy such as agriculture, natural gas, mining and metallurgy,
plastics, construction materials, mechanical construction and electrotechno-
logy. The proposed second education project would further reinforce the
expansion and reorganization of technical education in response to priority
manpower needs; at the same time, it would provide much needed technical
assistance for the planning, preparation and/or execution of important re-
forms of other priority areas (basic education, vocational training, general
secondary education, university education).
iii.      More specifically, the project would include:
(i) construction, furnishing, equipping and related technical
assistance for a new Technological Institute of Electricity
and Electronics;
(ii) technical assistance for primary and secondary education
reform;
(iii) two pre-investment studies on the development of vocational
training centers and a vocational teacher training institute;
and
(iv) two studies on automated data processing and introduction of
modern teaching technologies in higher education.
iv.       By increasing the annual output of the education system by about 190
engineers and 440 technicians specialized in various fields of electrical and
electronic engineering, the project would provide about 50% of the projected
average annual demand for these types of skills in the early 1980's--thus as-
sisting in_alleviating manpower shortages which could seriously impair the
planned development of those important industrial sub-sectors which rely more
heavily on modern power and process control systems. The project would thus
support the growing diversification and technological sophistication of
Algerian industry, which is one of the basic goals of the country's develop-
ment strategy.



- ii -
v.        Implementation of the Institute of Electricity and Electronics and
the pre-investment study on the development of vocational training centers
would be the responsibility of the Directorate of Human Resources in the Min-
istry of Industry. The pre-investment study on the development of a vocational
teacher training institute would be implemented through the service responsible
for training in the Ministry of Labor. The Director General of Planning in the
Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education, and the Director of Planning in the
Ministry of Higher Education would coordinate, respectively, the technical as-
sistance program for the reform of primary and secondary education and the
pre-investment studies related to post-secondary education. The Project
Liaison Officer, appointed for the first education project, would also be
responsible for the second.
vi.       Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
guidelines, except for equipment and furniture items included in the miscel-
laneous category and items of such specialized nature that international com-
petitive bidding would not be practical. The miscellaneous category would
include all items or categories of items costing US$10,000 or less. Items
included in the miscellaneous category--which could not exceed US$1.0 million
or about 5% of total furniture and equipment cost--would be procured under
normal government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank
and would include price quotations from at least three manufacturers or sup-
pliers. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids, local manufac-
turers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a margin of preference
equal to the existing rate of custom duties applicable to competing imports
or 15% of c.i.f. price, whichever is lower.
vii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$78.0 million, with a for-
eign exchange component of US$47.0 million. The project is suitable as basis
for a Bank loan of US$47.0 million to the Democratic and Popular Republic of
Algeria.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In June 1973, the Bank approved a loan of US$6.0 million to finance
the first education project in Algeria. The project was conceived as the first
phase of a larger program designed to (i) help supply the scientific and tech-
nical personnel required to sustain the process of economic and social devel-
opment in Algeria and (ii) promote and support structural reforms in the educ-
ation system. The project includes financing of extensions and/or complement-
ary equipment for three technological institutes (Algerian Petroleum Institute;
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy; Institute of Agricultural Technology) and
technical assistance for a pre-investment study of a fourth (Institute of
Light Industry). Delays have occurred in the physical implementation of the
project, mainly due to government's lack of experience in implementing Bank-
financed projects and differences between the Ministries of Agriculture and
Higher Education over the development pattern of post-secondary agricultural
education. However, implementation of the project items under the Ministry of
Industry has improved considerably in the last months. As for the planned
extension of the Institute of Agricultural Technology, the Government has re-
cently submitted a request for cancellation of this project item and realloca-
tion of the funds thereof.
1.02      The proposed second project would further reinforce the expansion
and reorganization of technical education supported by the first project and
would provide much needed technical assistance for the planning, preparation
and execution of educational reforms in four other priority areas, i.e. basic
education, vocational training, general secondary education and university
education. The project was identified by an IBRD Reconnaissance-in-Depth
mission which visited the country in January 1975 and prepared by the govern-
ment with assistance from foreign consultants. The project was appraised in
June 1975 by an IBRD mission consisting of Messrs. A. de Capitani (economist;
mission leader), A. El Tobgy (architect; consultant), B. Gallois (natural
sciences specialist; consultant), C. Germanacos (general educator; consultant)
and B. Teare (engineering educator; consultant).
1.03      The project has been modified with respect to the government's
original proposal. The proposed University of Science and Technology at Oran
was removed from the project because of inadequate planning. At the request
of the government, a planning study on the development of higher education
and a pre-investment study on post-secondary agricultural education were
deleted. On the other hand, the program of technical assistance was expanded
to include pre-investment studies on the development of vocational training,
and studies on automated data processing and the introduction of modern
teaching technologies in higher education, a manpower study as well as
specialists' services and fellowships for the proposed Institute of Elec-
tricity and Electronics.



-2-
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
Economic Development Since Independence
2.01      Prior to independence in 1962, the Algerian economy was closely
linked to that of France with its production and trade largely geared to the
French market. The bulk of the modern sector was owned by the 900,000 expa-
triates living in Algeria, nearly all high administrative and management posi-
tions were occupied by Europeans and only 10% of the jobs requiring technical
and professional skills were held by Algerians. Following the massive depar-
ture, mostly in 1962, of residents of European origin, the Algerian government
had to manage the administration and the economy with an extremely limited
number of trained personnel while faced with problems of reconstruction,
declining production and increasing unemployment.
2.02      In the years following independence, Algeria succeeded in building
up an administrative and economic management capacity, while relying heavily
on expatriates for technical assignments. The new Algerian government, grown
out of the revolutionary movement, opted for a one-party system and reconstruc-
tion of society along socialist and Islamic lines. The nationalization of most
of the foreign capital stock, the scarcity of indigenous private entrepreneurship
and the prevailing ideological and political conditions promoted the development
of a centrally controlled economy.
2.03      The pattern of economic growth since 1962 has been heavily influenced
by the resource endowment of the country and the quest for economic indepen-
dence. The development strategy consistently followed has been to expand oil
and gas production for export (using resources which are expected to last not
more than 30 to 40 years) to develop the physical and human capital stock
required for a diversified industrial base, and to modernize agriculture. Due
to the persistent shortages of managerial and technical skills, highly capital
intensive technologies had to be used, which in turn severely limited the
absorption of the unskilled and semi-skilled.
2.04      A decade of rapid economic growth has brought about profound changes
in the structure of production and employment. In agriculture (about 8% of
GDP and 50% of total employment in 1973) a system of "self-managed" government-
owned farms has been created and large scale programs have been launched to
redistribute private land and cattle, establish cooperatives of viable size
and support them with more adequate social facilities, extension services and
other inputs. The manufacturing sector, however, is where the most remarkable
results have been achieved: following a decade of sustained investment ef-
forts, the sector now produces over 25% of GDP and accounts for about 17% of
total employment. After initial emphasis on heavy basic industries (hydro-
carbons, steel, plastics, fertilizers) efforts were made to foster the develop-
ment of  echanical and electrical engineering industries manufacturing capital
goods for various sectors of the economy (tractors and agricultural implements,
tubes and piping, machine tools, industrial vehicles, construction equipment
etc.). Increasing emphasis is now being placed on light industries producing
major consumer goods (food products, textiles, footwear, furniture, electric
and electronic appliances, detergents, etc.).



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In June 1973, the Bank approved a loan of US$6.0 million to finance
the first education project in Algeria. The project was conceived as the first
phase of a larger program designed to (i) help supply the scientific and tech-
nical personnel required to sustain the process of economic and social devel-
opment in Algeria and (ii) promote and support structural reforms in the educ-
ation system. The project includes financing of extensions and/or complement-
ary equipment for three technological institutes (Algerian Petroleum Institute;
Institute of Mining and Metallurgy; Institute of Agricultural Technology) and
technical assistance for a pre-investment study of a fourth (Institute of
Light Industry). Delays have occurred in the physical implementation of the
project, mainly due to government's lack of experience in implementing Bank-
financed projects and differences between the Ministries of Agriculture and
Higher Education over the development pattern of post-secondary agricultural
education. However, implementation of the project items under the Ministry of
Industry has improved considerably in the last months. As for the planned
extension of the Institute of Agricultural Technology, the Government has re-
cently submitted a request for cancellation of this project item and realloca-
tion of the funds thereof.
1.02      The proposed second project would further reinforce the expansion
and reorganization of technical education supported by the first project and
would provide much needed technical assistance for the planning, preparation
and execution of educational reforms in four other priority areas, i.e. basic
education, vocational training, general secondary education and university
education. The project was identified by an IBRD Reconnaissance-in-Depth
mission which visited the country in January 1975 and prepared by the govern-
ment with assistance from foreign consultants. The project was appraised in
June 1975 by an IBRD mission consisting of Messrs. A. de Capitani (economist;
mission leader), A. El Tobgy (architect; consultant), B. Gallois (natural
sciences specialist; consultant), C. Germanacos (general educator; consultant)
and B. Teare (engineering educator; consultant).
1.03      The project has been modified with respect to the government's
original proposal. The proposed University of Science and Technology at Oran
was removed from the project because of inadequate planning. At the request
of the government, a planning study on the development of higher education
and a pre-investment study on post-secondary agricultural education were
deleted. On the other hand, the program of technical assistance was expanded
to include pre-investment studies on the development of vocational training,
and studies on automated data processing and the introduction of modern
teaching technologies in higher education, a manpower study as well as
specialists' services and fellowships for the proposed Institute of Elec-
tricity and Electronics.



-2-
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
Economic Development Since Independence
2.01      Prior to independence in 1962, the Algerian economy was closely
linked to that of France with its production and trade largely geared to the
French market. The bulk of the modern sector was owned by the 900,000 expa-
triates living in Algeria, nearly all high administrative and management posi-
tions were occupied by Europeans and only 10% of the jobs requiring technical
and professional skills were held by Algerians. Following the massive depar-
ture, mostly in 1962, of residents of European origin, the Algerian government
had to manage the administration and the economy with an extremely limited
number of trained personnel while faced with problems of reconstruction,
declining production and increasing unemployment.
2.02      In the years following independence, Algeria succeeded in building
up an administrative and economic management capacity, while relying heavily
on expatriates for technical assignments. The new Algerian government, grown
out of the revolutionary movement, opted for a one-party system and reconstruc-
tion of society along socialist and Islamic lines. The nationalization of most
of the foreign capital stock, the scarcity of indigenous private entrepreneurship
and the prevailing ideological and political conditions promoted the development
of a centrally controlled economy.
2.03      The pattern of economic growth since 1962 has been heavily influenced
by the resource endowment of the country and the quest for economic indepen-
dence. The development strategy consistently followed has been to expand oil
and gas production for export (using resources which are expected to last not
more than 30 to 40 years) to develop the physical and human capital stock
required for a diversified industrial base, and to modernize agriculture. Due
to the persistent shortages of managerial and technical skills, highly capital
intensive technologies had to be used, which in turn severely limited the
absorption of the unskilled and semi-skilled.
2.04      A decade of rapid economic growth has brought about profound changes
in the structure of production and employment. In agriculture (about 8% of
GDP and 50% of total employment in 1973) a system of "self-managed" government-
owned farms has been created and large scale programs have been launched to
redistribute private land and cattle, establish cooperatives of viable size
and support them with more adequate social facilities, extension services and
other inputs. The manufacturing sector, however, is where the most remarkable
results have been achieved: following a decade of sustained investment ef-
forts, the sector now produces over 25% of GDP and accounts for about 17% of
total employment. After initial emphasis on heavy basic industries (hydro-
carbons5 steel, plastics, fertilizers) efforts were made to foster the develop-
ment of r_chanical and electrical engineering industries manufacturing capital
goods for various sectors of the economy (tractors and agricultural implements,
tubes and piping, machine tools, industrial vehicles, construction equipment
etc.). Increasing emphasis is now being placed on light industries producing
major consumer goods (food products, textiles, footwear, furniture, electric
and electronic appliances, detergents, etc.).



-3-
Economic Development Strategy
2.05      In 1966, Algeria's Revolutionary Council defined three fundamental
goals which the country would pursue during the period to 1980: (i) expand
and reorganize the productive base so as to reach a stage of self-sustained
growth with full employment around 1980; (ii) achieve economic independence,
which implies that the country would rely mainly on its own resources for
development, although international economic relations could be expanded if
based on mutual interest and respect for Algerian sovereignty; and (iii)
improve income distribution, particularly among regions.
2.06      These goals still represent the basis of Algeria's long term
development strategy, as reflected in the Four Year Plan 1974 - 1977. The
main aspects of this strategy are: (i) continued build up of a diversified
and integrated industrial base, which is viewed as the principle means of
achieving the long-term growth and employment objectives, since the scope for
expanding agriculture rapidly is limited by physical and social constraints;
(ii) reinforcement of the new management structures of the Algerian economy
(central planning, public enterprises, Agrarian Revolution, decentralization,
workers' participation in the management of public enterprises) to strengthen
Algerian control and impart dynamism to investments and production; (iii)
controlled expansion and egalitarian distribution of personal incomes so as
to generate adequate national savings for investment and avoid excessive
recourse to external sources; and (iv) rapid expansion of education and
training to respond quickly to the demand for skilled manpower and to create
a socio-cultural environment conducive to modernization and development. Over
the period 1974 - 1977, the Plan projects an average annual growth of GDP of
at least 10%. In the longer run, a steady state growth of 8.5% - 9.5% p.a.
seems feasible.
Manpower Requirements
2.07      The size of the education and training effort required to implement
this strategy is indicated by a comparison of projected manpower requirements
over the period ending in 1990 and the expected capacity output of the educa-
tion system in 1977 (Annex 2). If that capacity is not increased, substantial
and increasing shortages of skilled workers and middle-level technicians are
likely to affect virtually all sectors of the economy--a condition which has
already been a major cause of declines in economic efficiency. At the level
of professionals and higher technicians, significant shortages are expected
to persist in the scientific and technical professions as well as in the
teaching profession, while surpluses of university graduates with arts-based
education are likely to occur. It should be emphasized that these conclusions
are based on a comparison of projected needs in the 1980's with the capacity
output of the system at the end of the present Plan Period (1977). If the
stated long term expansion objectives of the Ministry of Higher Education were
attained, there could be a substantial overall surplus of university graduates
in the mid-1980's--the projected demand being of the order of 14,000 - 16,000
graduates per year, while the projected supply would be about twice as much.
It is not possible to specify which professions would be most affected since
available enrollment projections are not broken down by specializations.
IHowever, for the reasons mentioned in para 3.08, it is highly unlikely that
the above enrollment objectives will be attained.



- 4 -
2.08      Particularly serious are the projected shortages of engineers and
middle-level technicians. Available projections /1 suggest the following
orders of magnitude:
Of Which:
Present      Output from   Additional
Projected        Capacity       Institutions  Output from
Average         Output of       Supported      Proposed
Annual        the Education    by First         Second
Demand        and Training      Education      Education
1981-1985 /2        System          Project        Project
A. Engineers
(level 6)     1,800-2,000            1,580            180            190
of which:
Electrical &
Electronics
Engineers       400-  500               130 /3         20            190
B. Technicians
(level 5)     4,000-4,500            1,160            825            440
of which:
Electrical &
Electronics
Technicians     850-1,000               400            25            440
Of high priority appears to be the need for electrical and electronics engineers
and technicians, as shortages of these skills could jeopardize industrial
development in critical subsectors such as large scale food processing, power
generation, telecommunications, mechanical and electrical products, petroleum
and petrochemicals, plastics, which all involve modern power and process con-
trol systems.
/1   See, in particular:  Arthur D. Little, Estimation des besoins en
effectifs de l'economie algerienne 1969 I 1990.
/2   Excluding agricultural engineers.
/3   Including USTA, IMMA and the Institute of Telecommunications.  The
University of Science and Technology at Oran will not offer electrical
or electronic engineering.



III. THE EDUCATION AND MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
The Developing Structure of the Education System (Annexes 3 and 4)
3.01      Education in Algeria is in a stage of transition as a result of
the initiation of an extensive re-structuring operation accompanied by cur-
ricula and organizational reforms at all levels. The system, which Algeria
had inherited from colonial times and which remained virtually unchanged
until 1970, was largely patterned after the traditional French model and con-
sisted of: (i) a six-year primary course normally beginning at the age of
six, followed by a one-year post-primary course for those unable to gain ad-
mission to secondary school; (ii) a secondary course of seven years in the
lycees or--for those who failed to qualify for the lycees--a four-year course
in separate schools offering general education (Collages d'Enseignement Gene-
ral); and (iii) post-secondary courses of three to six years duration at uni-
versities or other third level institutions. In 1970, the secondary cycle
was divided into a first cycle of 4 years (Middle Schools) leading to the
"Brevet" certificate (with parallel courses in lower vocational or agricul-
tural schools), and a second cycle of three years, leading to the "Baccalau-
reat" diploma. The wasteful post-primary course and the inefficient and
socially discriminatory lower vocational and agricultural schools are being
phased out.
3.02      The high priority which has been traditionally assigned to education
is reflected in the very rapid increase of enrollments at all levels. Since
1963/64, enrollments have more than doubled in primary education, have in-
creased about sevenfold in secondary education and more than fifteenfold in
higher education. In 1973/74, public primary schools enrolled about 2.4 mil-
lion students (corresponding to a net enrollment ratio of over 67% of the age
group 6-13), middle schools enrolled 300,000 (21% of the age group), secondary
schools about 70,000 (8% of the age group) and higher education 48,000 (3.5%
of the age group). Public expenditures on education represented over 30% of
the government recurrent budget, about 23% of the capital budget and over 9%
of GDP--one of the highest percentages of education expenditures in the world.
3.03      As in many other countries, however, the rapid growth of the educa-
tion system has led to or revealed structural imbalances and bottlenecks.
These are among the main education issues:
(i)  Shortage of qualified Algerian teachers - Due to the combined
effects of delays in increasing the capacity of teacher training
institutions, low class-contact hours, generous teacher-pupil
ratios (particularly in upper secondary education) and the
understandable desire to keep the proportion of professionally
unqualified teachers to a minimum, heavy reliance has had to
be placed on expatriate teachers. At present, expatriate
teachers still represent over 45% of the teaching force in
lower secondary education, 59% in upper secondary and 55% at
university level. This represents a heavy financial burden



- 6 -
on the cciintry and a serious obstacle to arabization and
Algerianization (in a cultural sense) of education.
Greater efforts therefore should be made to stimulate
faster nationalization of the teaching staff.
(ii)  Inequalities in the distribution of educational oppor-
tunities - In spite of government efforts to improve the
situation, distributional inequalities are still marked
both by sexes and by regions. Partly because of religious
and cultural reasons, the percentage of girls enrolled in
primary education (about 39% nationally, with minima of 29%
in the rural wilayas) is still low. Similarly, there are
significant regional variations in enrollment ratios at both
primary and secondary levels (96% in Algiers versus 51% in
Al-Asnam for primary education; 27% in Algiers versus 9% in
Medea for secondary).
(iii)  Educational Inefficiency - Considerable improvements in the
efficiency of the system have occurred in the last four
years and average repetition and drop out rates per grade at
primary, middle and secondary levels (12% and 5%, 10% and
5%, and 10% and 10%, respectively) now compare favorably to
those of most developing countries; considerable room for
improvement, however, still exists. At university level,
prior to the 1971 reform, only 20% of the students graduated
and most of them were eliminated in the propaedeutic year;
at present, repeater rates are still high at 15% - 25%, and
the average drop-out rate between the first and last year
is around 40%. As a result, there are needless wastages of
human and financial resources.
(iv)  Irrelevance - Curricula inherited from colonial times are
criticized as being too elitist, unduly selective and tra-
ditionally-oriented to be relevant for a modern industrial-
izing economy. Moreover, the academic and literary orienta-
tion of secondary education results in too many literary and
not enough scientific and technological baccalaureates which
leads to maldistribution of enrollments in the universities.
(Annex 6). The resulting dissatisfaction of the users with
both the quantity and the quality of outputs from the formal
education system has motivated the creation of parallel or
complementary training systems (para. 3.05) as well as the
establisLba.ent of sizeable in-plant training schemes.
Reorganization of the Education System
3.04      In response to these issues, several reorganization measures have
been taken since 1970. The first one was the decision to phase out the exist-
ing MPSE vocational schools and replace them with a new type of technical
schools ("Technicum") which would complement the network of vocational schools
and adult training centers o-rarated by the technical ministries (in particular,
the Ministry of Td-s:z. andbe Ministry of Labor).  Traditionally, MPSE



-7-
vocational training was provided in the "Colleges d'Enseignemen-L Technique"
(CET) and in general took the form of three-year courses after Grade 7. On
the whole, these schools have been a failure; the level of entry is too low,
curricula are out of line with industrial needs and students are too young for
adequate testing of vocational aptitudes and skills. As a result, drop out
rates are high, the percentage of candidates who obtain the craftsman's certif-
icate is low, and only a small minority of these are able to gain employment
in the craft for which they have supposedly been trained. The new Technicums
will provide job-oriented courses of variable duration (one to three years)
following nine years of basic or "fundamental" general education.
3.05      Another step in the reorganization of the education system has been
the creation of a new type of secondary and/or post-secondary institution -
the Institute of Technology. This institution breaks through the traditional
educational pattern in several ways: typically, recruitment is not necessar-
ily based on examination certificate levels, and credit is given for work
experience; programs are worked out in terms of actual job requirements; new
specializations are offered; the curriculum is a combination of in-school and
on-the-job training; teaching methodologies are flexible, practical and
student-oriented; the school year extends over eleven months; and examination
procedures are geared to test professional competence rather than academic
proficiency. Since 1970, a number of institutes of this type have been set up
for mining, petroleum technology, agriculture, commerce, planning, tourism,
public works, mechanics, topography, public health, telecommunications, each
under the authority of the technical ministry concerned (Annex 7). The
Algerian government is increasingly aware that any further expansion of the
system of Technological Institutes will have to be selective, carefully
planned and coordinated with the development of university education. The
government has therefore decided that all post-secondary Technological Institutes
will be gradually transferred from the technical ministries concerned to the
Ministry of Higher Education and absorbed into the reformed university system.
3.06      A third element of the ongoing reorganization of education is repre-
sented by the reform of the university system, which started in 1971. The
previous university system was based on the French model and was characterized,
among others, by the autonomy of the faculties in designing curricula and
organizing all courses toward a particular degree. This approach, coupled
with free admissions for all holders of a baccalaureat degree, severe examina-
tions at yearly intervals and limited contact between faculty and students,
led to high attrition rates and complete loss of academic credit for those
who did not obtain the final degree for which the courses were intended.
A major characteristic of the university reform is the modular organization
of the course structure, which is expected to improve educational efficiency,
provide a better use of the faculty (who will teach both "service courses"
and "graduate courses") and permit a less costly reorientation of those
students who are not admitted to the advanced phase of their initially elected
degree. Other components of the reform include: elimination of the wasteful
university preparatory year; extension of the academic year from nine to eleven
months; organization of the academic year into semesters or trimesters with
periodic examinations and a system of continuous evaluation; modernization of
educational technologies; inclusion of Arabic studies in all programs; and
introduction of periods of on-the-job training, wherever feasible.



- 8-
Educational Development Strategy
3.07      All these reorganization measures should be viewed within the broader
design of the country's long-term education development strategy, 1/ whose
main long-germ goals are to:
(i) Provide a common base of education to everybody as one
of the pre-conditions to assure that all participate in
and benefit from the process of development: the planned
provision of nine years of "fundamental education" to all
children by 1985; the reinforcement of adult literacy programs;
the Algerianization of the teaching force; and the use of
the Arabic language as the main medium of communication, both
in school and in all national cultural activities--all these
objectives are viewed as corollaries of the basic goal;
(ii) Eliminate the wasted, costly years spent in the extended
primary school by children who had failed to gain entry into
the secondary; phase out lower vocational and agricultural
schools (grade 8-10); postpone selection into secondary
education to the age of 15 (when children's skills and apti-
tudes can be better appraised); and introduce new promotion
and testing procedures;
(iii) Reorient secondary education with strong emphasis on
science and technology: the general secondary school will
continue with its present option bases--humanities, sciences,
mathematics--but new types of secondary schools will be
developed including new specialized schools and a new type
of technical school ("technicum") providing courses of 1-3
years with strong vocational bias; and
(iv) Expand the university system, reorient enrollments toward
engineering and sciences, and develop the various structural,
educational and administrative measures initiated by the 1971
Reform Law.
3.08      It should be noted that while the objectives of fundamental educa-
tion are clearly defined (the main problem is how to introduce all the con-
comitants of the reform), the objectives of reformed secondary education need
to be more clearly enunciated as a precondition to revise curricula and develop
new testing measures. In particular, the role of technicums and their rela-
tionship with the vocational schools and training centers operated by technical
ministries need to be better specified. 2/ As for university education, the
1/   A more detailed analysis and evaluation of the country's education
development strategy is given in Annex 5.
2/   The proposed program of technical assistance for the reform of primary
and secondary education together with the pre-investment studies on
vocational training would be instrumental in better defining the
role of these new schools.



- 9 -
plan to double enrollments between 1974 and 1977 and to almost treble them by
1980 is not supported by either up-to-date knowledge of priority manpower
needs or realistic programs of physical implementation. 1/  In particular,
the achievement of the above targets is unlikely for most of the proposed
new universities inasmuch as master plans and the detailed educational and
architectural briefs necessary for universities to be operative in the late
seventies are not yet available (Annex 5).
Education Finances
3.09      Implementation of the above strategy will result in an increase in
total enrollments from 2.8 million in 1973/74 to 5.8 million in 1984/85, or
about 7% p.a. (Annex 8). The financing of this expansion is likely to in-
volve an average annual increase of total public expenditures on education of
at least 11% p.a. in real terms over 1973-1985, corresponding to about 9.4%
of projected GDP in 1985 2/ (the projected distribution of recurrent and
capital expenditures is given in Annex 9).
3.10      While these percentages are higher than those found in most other
developing countries, they are not significantly out of line with Algeria's
present efforts in education. Between 1970 and 1973, public expenditures on
education have consistently been in the neighborhood of 9% of GDP, with recur-
rent education expenditures absorbing as much as 27%-32% of the government's
current budget and capital expenditures averaging about 23% of the government's
total capital expenditures (Annex 9). When complete 1974 data become available,
they will probably show some marginal declines in the above percentages, as-
sociated with the impact of oil price increases on both GDP and public expendi-
tures. However, the overall picture is not likely to change.
3.11      In the medium term, barring unforeseeable events in the energy
sector, it is unlikely that financial stringencies will represent a major
constraint on the implementation of the education reform--managerial and
administrative bottlenecks, inadequate physical planning and poor implementa-
tion capability are likely to be more serious obstacles. In the longer run,
three major factors will probably influence the financial feasibility of the
country's education development strategy. First, continuity will be required
in the country's present development strategy which firmly supports education
while allowing only relatively modest increases in other social sectors.
Secondly, severe restraints will have to be exercised on the growth of re-
current costs, and efforts will have to be made to eliminate duplication and
wastages associated with the present educational structures (among the areas
to consider are scholarship and boarding policies, deployment of teachers,
1/   A planning study dealing with these issues was proposed by the mission
but rejected by the Ministry of Higher Education.
2/   This assumes that GDP will grow at an average rate of 8.0% p.a. in real
terms between 1974 and 1985. If the GDP growth were slower, the per-
centage would be proportionally higher and could even become financially
unfeasible.



- 10 -
teaching loads and l-,fgth of school year). And thirdly, the present policy
of trying to reduce the very high cost of construction per student place
through standardization of design and construction and careful planning of
school locations will have to be extended to all levels of education and
rigidly enforced.
IV. THE PROJECT
Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(i) establish a new Technological Institute which would be
instrumental in meeting the need for engineers and middle-
level technicians in fields which are of crucial importance
for the development of modern industries relying on power
and process control systems; and
(ii) provide much needed technical assistance to support the
planned introduction of universal "Fundamental Education"
and the reform of general secondary education; provide the
framework for rational development of vocational training;
and assist the ongoing reform of higher education in the
fields of education management and teaching technologies.
The project would thus further reinforce the system of technical education
already supported by the first project (para 1.01), while assisting in the
planning, preparation and/or execution of important educational reforms in
several other priority areas.
Institute of Electricity and Electronics
4.02      The proposed Institute of Electricity and Electronics at Tlemcen -
the only institution of this type in Algeria - would enroll at full capacity
about 3,000 students: 1,000 in engineering courses of five years duration and
2,000 in technician courses of four years duration. The basic engineering
specializations would be electricity and power, communications, control sys-
tems, computers, electronics and applied sciences. Technician students would
specialize in four areas of study, i.e. manufacture of components, electricity
and power, digital electronics and electronic communications. The capacity
output at steady rate would be about 190 engineers and 440 technicians.
4.03      The Institute was planned by the Education Development Center (EDC),
in cooperation with a Consortium of 11 other American organizations which



- 1 1 -
included 9 universities 1/ of recognized standing in engineering and technology
and 2 electronics companies. The planning group worked closely with the
Ministry of Industry and the main "Societes Nationales" concerned (SONELEC;
SONACOME; SONATRACH; SONELGAZ; SNS). Pedagogically, the Institute would re-
flect the basic structural features of "Technological Institutes" in Algeria
(73ra 3.05), while offering study programs and teaching methods conforming to
the best American patterns in engineering education.
4.04      Condition of entry would normally be a baccalaureat in science and
mathematics for engineering studies and completion of the first cycle of se-
condary education for technician courses. All students would receive a fairly
generous pre-salary in addition to free tuition and nominal boarding fees;
however, they would be under obligation to work at least ten years in the
public sector after completion of their studies and would receive their
diploma only at the end of that period, upon the recommendation of a jury
composed of university and industry representatives. In order to permit
continuous evaluation of the proposed Institute, the government has provided
an assuranceZ that, not later than two years 2/ after loan signing, a "tracer"
system would be established within the Institute to collect and record all
relevant information concerning premature termination of studies, repetition,
employment and advanced studies of graduates.
4.05      Curricula have been designed in cooperation with the users and re-
flect the functional content of corresponding occupations in the Algerian
industry. They are generally-well planned and provide for extensive periods
of practical training in industry. (This will be facilitated by the proposed
location of the Institute, adjacent to the "Cite' Industrielle" of SONELEC,
about 5 km from Tlemcen). While the basic curriculum goal is to provide a
highly specialized technical background enabling graduates to be immediately
productive, efforts have been made to develop problem solving capability, a
spirit of innovation and research, as well as sufficient flexibility to adapt
to technological progress. In the case of engineering education, emphasis is
also placed on social sciences, communication skills and management techniques
to enable engineers eventually to assume managerial responsibilities in indus-
trial enterprises. Proposed equipment lists are consistent with curriculum
requirements and acceptable in terms of expected rates of utilization.
4.06      When fully operational, the Institute would require about 200 teachers.
An Algerian faculty is to be developed with assistance of American advisors
from the Consortium in residence at Tlemcen and by fellowships for Algerians
to study in the United States. It is the government's intention to appoint
experienced Algerians, to the extent possible, prior to the operation of the
1/   Case Western Reserve University; Massachusetts Institute of Technology;
Oklahoma State University; Purdue University; Stevens Institute of
Technology; University of Houston; University of Missouri; University
of Wisconsin - Stout; Wentworth Institute.
2/   It is expected that courses will start in provisional facilities in
September 1976.



-12 -
Institute to serve as a small nucleus of Algerian senior staff. Other Algerians
would serve as counterparts to the advisors and would be awarded fellowships
on a schedule which would allow their return to the Institute and full
Algerianization of the faculty by the mid-1980's. In the interim, teaching
would have to be assured by expatriates - a maximum of 119 foreign professors
would be reached in 1981/82. About 50 of these are expected to be recruited
by EDC in the USA from the faculties of the universities participating in the
Consortium. The government has provided an assurance that procedures would
be established to ensure recruitment of the remaining teachers and that the
growth of enrollments during the initial five year period would be consistent
with such actual recruitment.
4.07      The language of instruction would be English, but this is not ex-
pected to create serious pedagogical problems, 1/ since an increasing proportion
of secondary school students in Algeria are taking English as a foreign language,
and special accelerated upgrading courses would be organized by the Institute
for both technician and engineering students during the first year of the course.
4.08      Administration of the Institute (Annex 10) would be the responsibil-
ity of a Director General 2/ reporting to the Minister of Industry and Energy
through the Director of Human Resources (Directeur de la Formation des Cadres),
and assisted by a Deputy Director for Academic Affairs and an Assistant Director
for Administrative Affairs.  During the initial stage, the Director General
would be advised by a Steering Committee, consisting of representatives of
all universities and institutions included in the Consortium and headed by a
Program Director. In order to ensure a permanent dialogue with the users,
the government has provided an assurance that an Advisory Council comprising,
inter alios, representatives of the main Societ6s Nationales concerned and
responsible, inter alia, for providing guidance on manpower needs, curriculum
development, on-the-job training in industry and evaluation systems, would be
established within one year of the signing of the Loan Agreement.
4.09      The government has decided that all post-secondary technical insti-
tutes, such as the Tlemcen Institute, will be gradually transferred from the
technical ministries presently responsible for their administration to the
Ministry of Higher Education, and absorbed into the reformed university
system. The timing and possible consequences of a transfer of the Tlemcen
Institute to the Ministry of Higher Education are unknown at this time. To
lessen the possibility that the innovative features of the Tlemcen Institute
might be altered before they had been in operation sufficiently to permit an
objective appraisal of their value, the scope and features of the institute
as presently envisaged are described in a supplemental letter to the Loan
Agreement and the government has provided an assurance that the Bank would
be consulted regarding the possible adoption of measures which might change
the present concept of the Institute.
1/   This conclusion is supported by the experience with the Algerian Petro-
leum Institute (Natural Gas Section), where courses are taught in English.
2/   Already designated.



- 13 -
4.10      The need for the output of the Tlemcen Institute of Electricity
and Electronics is so urgent that the construction of the Institute should
commence without awaiting a study of the demand for electrical and electronics
engineers versus the aggregated potential supply. Yet, as stated in para 2.07,
an over-supply of university graduates is possible if the Ministry of Higher
Education's projected enrollments were to be realized, and these projections
have not yet been determined by specialization. The project therefore would
include the financing of a study of Algeria's needs for engineers and higher
technicians through 1990, with special emphasis on electrical and electronics
specialists. The study would be performed by consultants acceptable to the
Borrower and the Bank under terms of reference agreed by the Borrower and the
Bank. The study would be completed within two years of the Loan Agreement
signing. The government has provided an assurance that the findings and
recommendations of the study would be discussed with the Bank and would be
given due consideration prior to any decision regarding further expansion
of training of electrical and electronics engineers and technicians.
4.11      In view of the importance of assuring adequate support to the
Institute in its important formative years, a program of technical assistance
is proposed which would finance the services of each of the 13 departments
heads during the first two years of operation of each department. Fifty man/
years of fellowships are also proposed to train abroad about 20 Algerian
teachers for the Institute.
Technical Assistance for Primary and Secondary Education Reform
4.12      Implementation of the MPSE reform plan has begun with a joint phased
advance in the three major aspects of the reform - the restructuring, prepara-
tion of new pedagogical programs, and provision of more appropriate physical
facilities. The first phase 1974-77 is intended to lay the foundation for
full development in the Second and Third Plan periods.
4.13      The proposed program of technical assistance would help with the
formative evaluation of all aspects of the reform under implementation condi-
tions, the preparation of more appropriate administrative and testing proce-
dures, the design of training programs for teachers and for key central and
regional-based administrators, the elaboration of norms and standards, the
design and evaluation of research and planning studies, and the design and
testing of learning-teaching aids. The MPSE sees the technical assistance
as a crucial factor in aiding current implementation with a view to assuring
the refinement (in terms of relevance, viability, timing, etc.) of the reform
measures before their general introduction in the .1980's.
4.14      More specifically, the proposed program of technical assistance
would comprise:
(i) Six man/years of consultants' services for the MPSE to
assist in the planniig and programming of the various
aspects of the reform and twelve man/years of experts'
services for the National Institute of Pedagogy (IPN),
the Literary Center (CNA) and the National Center for
Complementary Education (CNEG) to assist in the develop-



- 14 -
ment of educational research techniques; preparation of
textbooks and teaching aids; programs of adult education:
literacy, instructional television and radio education;
and
(ii) forty-two man/years of fellowships abroad for selected staff
ofr the MPSE, IPN, CNA and CNEG in the fields mentioned above.
Given the nature and the objectives of this program, a flexible approach would
be required - accordingly, the government would submit for Bank approval detailed
prQposals for technical assistance to be used during each twelve-month period,
at least three months in advance of the period and, in unusual circumstances,
detailed proposals for technical assistance which had not been foreseen for a
given period as soon as the need is identified.
Pre-Investment Studies on Vocational Training
4.15      The objective of the proposed study on the development of vocational
training centers (Annex '11) would be to assure that the needs of the rapidly
developing industrial and construction sectors for skilled and semi-skilled
manpower (levels 4 and 3) will be adequately met in terms of quantity, qual-
ity and by general areas of specialization. More specifically, the study
would provide a basis for determining the extent and nature of a rational net-
work of appropriate training centers and/or programs that may be required to
complement existing facilities and/or programs operated by various ministries
and industrial enterprises.  The study would be executed within 18 months from
the date of Loan Agreement by a task force - consisting of representatives of
all ministries concerned, 1/ assisted by a team of expatriate experts (about
30 man/months of specialist services) financed by the loan. The same task
force, assisted by foreign experts financed by the loan (about 14 man/months),
would also be responsible for a pre-investment study of an institute for the
training of vocational instructors for the industrial and construction sectors.
Creation of this task force would be a condition of disbursement on both
studies.
Pre-Investment Studies for Higher Education
4.16      The purpose of the study on automated data processing in higher
education would be to: (i) evaluate the present system and quality of data,
of data collection and of data processing; (ii) assess the administrative
ind planning problems posed by the expansion and reform of higher education;
*iii: 1etermine the administrative areas and processes which can best be
served by an automated system; (iv) consider the cost/effectiveness of intro-
ducing such a system and, if found viable, elaborate a detailed program of
implementation (including the definition of personnel and facilities
requirements).
1/   I.e. the Ainistries of Industry and Energy; Labor and Social Affairs;
Primary and Secondary Education; and the State Secretariat of Planning.



- 15 -
4.17      The proposed study on the introduction of modern teaching techno-
logies in higher education would: (i) identify the most appropriate types
and/or combinations of modern teaching technologies (with particular refer-
ence to such approaches as closed circuit television, programmed learning,
computer-assisted instruction, etc.) to improve learning and promote better
flow of students through the higher education system; (ii) elaborate a pro-
gram for training teachers in the use of the new teaching media and tech-
niques; and (iii) determine additional physical facilities or modifications
of existing ones that may be necessary for the introduction of the proposed
new technologies; provide norms and standards for these facilities, and
determine the technical specifications for the equipment required.



- 16 -
Cost Estimates (Annexes 12, 13, 14)
4.18      The estimated total cost of the project is D.A. 299.0 million or
US$78.0 million equivalent. A breakdown by project item is in the following
table 1/.
D.A. (millions)          US$ (millions)       % of Base
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Line Cost
Physical Facilities:
1. Institute of Electricity
and Electronics           71.43  104.89   176.32   18.63  27.36    45.99    86.9%
Services:
1. Professional Services      3.60    8.41    12.01    0.54   2.19        3.13     5.9%
2. Technical assistance for
the Institute of Elec-
tricity & Electronics
(including manpower
study)                     1.46    5.78      7.24    0.38   1.51      1.89      3.6%
3. Technical assistance
for primary and second-
ary education reform       1.02    4.04      5.06    0.27   1.05      1.32      2.5%
4. Pre-investment studies:
Vocational Training
Centers                0.12    0.46      0.58    0.03   0.12      0.15      0.3%
Vocational Teacher
Training Institute    0.06    0.21       0.27    0.01   0.06      0.07      0.1%
Automated Data
Processing             0.15    0.69      0.84    0.04   0.18      0.22      0.4%
Modern Teaching
Technologies            0.14    0.55      0.69    0.04   0.14      0.18      0.3%
Subtotal              6.55   20.14    26.69    1.71   5.25       6.96    13.1%
Base Line Costs              77.98  125.03   203.01   20.34  32.61    52.95   100.0%
Contingencies:
Physical                   7.48   11.48    18.96    1.95   3.00        4.95     9.4%
Price Increase            33.48   43.56    77.04    8.73  11.36    20.09    37.9%
Subtotal             40.96   55.04    96.00   10.68  14.36    25.04    47.3%
TOTAL PROJECT COST          118.94  180.07   299.01   31.02  46.97    77.99
1/  Estimated costs by type of expenditure are presented in Annex 13.



- 17 -
4.19      Estimated civil works costs for the proposed project are based on
information obtained from government agencies and private enterprises involved
in the construction industry in Algeria. Equipment costs were estimated on
the basis of acceptable equipment lists (para 4.05). Equipment and furniture
cost estimates are based on reasonable CIF prices for each category of goods
adjusted upward to include cost of inland transportation and installation.
Costs per student place are satisfactory (Annex 12).
4.20      Space standards are based on detailed schedules of accommodations
consistent with curricula requirements and in accordance with Algerian stand-
ards for Technological Institutes. Use factors are economical: in fact, the
efficiency of utilization is probably higher than in comparable engineering
institutions, in part because of large enrollment and in part because some
laboratories will be used jointly by technician and engineering students.
4.21      The project cost includes a contingency allowance for unforeseen
physical additions equal to 10% of the estimated costs for civil work, furni-
ture, equipment and 5% for professional services and technical asssistance.
During the project implementation period, prices are expected to increase by
about 42% for civil works, 26% for furniture and equipment, 25% for profes-
sional services and 15% for technical assistance. Accordingly, price contin-
gencies are estimated at about 35% of base line cost plus physical contingen-
cies (Annex 14).
4.22      The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$47.0 million
representing about 60% of total project cost. It was calculated as follows:
(i) civil works 45%, (ii) furniture 70% 1/, (iii) equipment 95%, (iv) profes-
sional services 70%, and (v) technical assistance 80%.
4.23      When fully operational, the Institute of Electricity and Electronics
would require about D.A. 60 million a year in recurrent costs, corresponding
to about 0.7% of projected public recurrent expenditures on education by 1985.
In view of the high priority of the proposed project, the government can be
expected to meet these expenditures as well as its share of the capital costs.
Financial Plan (Annex 15)
4.24      The proposed loan of US$47.0 million would finance 100% of the total
foreign exchange cost of construction, furniture, equipment and technical
assistance (for the latter, no UNDP financing is available). Local expendi-
ture would be entirely financed by the government.,
1/   This assumes that about 10% of contracts would be awarded to foreign
firms and that the foreign exchange componett of locally manufactured
furniture would be about 65%. If all furniture contracts were awarded
to foreign firms, the foreign exchange component of the project furni-
ture cost (excluding contingencies) would amount to US$2.5 million; if
all furniture contracts were awarded to local firms, the foreign ex-
change component would be US$1.7 million.



- 18 -
The proposed financial plan is summarized below:
Government             IBRD
Amount  Percentage  Amount Percentage  TOTAL
(US$ m)
1. Civil Works                     25.19       55%      20.61       45%     45.80
2. Furniture                        1.03       30%       2.39       70%      3.42
3. Equipment                        0.77        5%      14.66       95%     15.43
4. Professional Services            1.19       30%        2.77      70%      3.96
5. Technical Assistance             0.89       20%       3.54       80%      4.43
Base Line Cost (Including       29.07       40%      43.97       60%     73.04
Price Increase Contingencies)
6. Physical Contingencies           1.95       39%       3.00       61%      4.95
TOTAL                           31.02       40%      46.97       60%     77.99
(say 47.0)
Implementation
4.25      The "Direction de la Formation des Cadres" in the Ministry of Industry
would be responsible for the implementation of the Institute of Electricity and
Electronics (through its Director) as well as for the program of related tech-
nical assistance and for the pre-investment study on the development of voca-
tional training centers. The pre-investment study on the development of a
vocational teacher training institute would be implemented through the service
responsible for training in the Ministry of Labor. The Director General of
Planning in the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education would coordinate
and supervise the technical assistance program for primary and secondary
education reform, and the Director of Planning in the Ministry of Higher
Education would coordinate the pre-investment studies on automated data pro-
cessing and on the introduction of modern teaching technologies in higher
education.  The Project Liaison Officer, appointed for the first education
project, would also be responsible for coordination of activities among the
various ministries and government agencies involved in the second project as
well as for providing liaison with the Bank. To improve coordination of ac-
tivities and to streamline project implementation, a coordinating committee
would be created comprising representatives of all ministries concerned.
4.26      The Institute of Electricity and Electronics would be designed by
consulting architects/engineers selected in accordance with Bank guidelines
and appointed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Institute
would be constructed on a suitable site located about 5 km from Tlemcen and
adjacent to a future industrial complex. Title to the site would be legally
acquired before the scheduled commencement of construction.



- 19 -
4.27      Civil works contract(s) would be awarded on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines.  It is expected
that the contract(s) would be awarded to Algerian firms as the country has a
developed construction industry capable of implementing the proposed project.
4.28      Detailed lists of furniture and equipment would be presented for
Bank's review prior to procurement. Equipment and furniture lists would
identify all items or categories of items costing more than US$10,000, the
residual items being included in one miscellaneous category. Items included
in the miscellaneous category - which will not exceed US$1.0 million or about
5% of total furniture and equipment cost - may be procured under normal gov-
ernment procurement procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, and would
include price quotations from at least three manufacturers or suppliers. The
remaining equipment and furniture would be procured under international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines, except for equipment
items of such highly specialized nature manufactured by few international
firms, whose purchase through international competitive bidding would not be
practical. For these items, normal government procurement procedures would
be followed. Local manufacturers of equipment and furniture would be allowed
a margin of preference equal to the existing rate of custom duty applicable
to competing imports or 15% of C.I.F. price, whichever is lower. Nearly all
equipment is expected to be obtained from foreign manufacturers, while most
of the furniture contracts will probably be awarded to local manufacturers or
suppliers.
4.29      The project would be implemented over a period of six years after
the signing of the Loan Agreement (Annex 16). The government plans to start
the Institute of Electricity and Electronics educational programs in temporary
facilities in September 1976. About 10% of the equipment would be installed
in temporary facilities and relocated to the permanent facilities after they
are built. Construction, as well as procurement and installation of equipment
and furniture, are expected to be completed about 4-1/2 years after signing of
the Loan Agreement. An additional 1-1/2 years would be required for the
guarantee period, final payments and closing the accounts.
Retroactive Financing
4.30      To avoid delays in the implementation of the project, the government
plans an early start in preparing the architectural plans. Therefore, some
expenditures on professional fees are likely to be incurred by the government
after November, 1975. The foreign exchange component of these expenditures is
estimated to be about US$200,000 (less than 0.5% of the foreign exchange cost
of the project).  The Government has given assurances that the selection of
the consultant architect/engineers would be made in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Retroactive financing of these expenditures is therefore re-
commended.



- 20 -
Disbursements (Annex 17)
4.31      Disbursements would be on the basis of:
(i) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment and furniture;
(ii) 80% of total cost of furniture and equipment manufactured
abroad but purchased locally;
(iii) 65% of total expenditures for locally manufactured furniture;
(iv) 45% of total cost of civil works;
(v) 70% of total expenditures for professional services; and
(vi) 80% of total expenditures for technical assistance.
4.32      These percentages would be adjusted as necessary to distribute the
disbursements over the implementation period. Undisbursed funds, if any,
would be available for further development of the project in accordance with
a program agreeable to the Bank.
V. BENEFITS
5.01      By increasing the annual output of the system by about 190 engineers
and 440 middle-level technicians specialized in various fields of electrical
and electronic engineering, the project would provide about 50% of the pro-
jected average annual demand for this type of skills in the early 1980's--thus
assisting in alleviating manpower shortages which could seriously impair the
planned development of the industrial sector, and more specifically of sub-
sectors such as large scale food processing, power generation, telecommunica-
tions, mechanical and electrical products, petroleum, petrochemicals, and
plastics which all rely heavily on modern power and process control systems.
At the same time, the project would provide an essential input of technical
assistance for the planning, preparation and execution of important reforms
at all levels of education--reforms which, if properly implemented, could
result in drastic improvements in the quality and relevance of basic educa-
tion, more equitable distribution of educational opportunities through the
progressive generalization of "fundamental education" to all Algerian boys
and girls, better adaptation of secondary education to the country's needs
and priorities, and improved educational efficiency at post-secondary level.
5.02      The main risk associated with this project is a possible transfer
of the IEE to the Ministry of Higher Education and the consequent pedagogical
and organizational changes which might impair the effectiveness of the
Institute by diluting its most innovative educational features with elements
of a more traditional, discipline and professor-oriented approach. The gov-
ernment, however, has given assurances that no major change would be made in
the objectives, curricula, operational procedures and administration of the



- 21 -
Institute without prior Bank consultation. Moreover, even if some of the
innovative educational features were to be abandoned, the Institute would still
be capable of making a significant contribution to alleviating critical manpower
shortages in a priority sector.
VI. AGREEMENTS RUCHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement has been reached on the following
main points:
(i)  an Advisory Council, comprising representatives of the
main Societes Nationales interested in the training activ-
ities provided by the Institute and responsible inter alia
for providing guidance on manpower needs, curriculum devel-
opment, practical training in industry and evaluation systems,
would be established within one year of Loan Agreement signing
(para 4.08);
(ii) no major change would be made in the objectives, curricula,
operational procedures and administration of the Institute
without prior Bank consultation (paras 4.09 and 5.02);
(iii) the findings and recommendations of the study on Algeria's
needs for electrical and electronics engineers and technicians
through 1990 would be discussed with the Bank and would be
given due consideration prior to any decision regarding future
expansion of these types of training (para 4.10); and
(iv) a task force consisting of representatives of the Ministries
of Industry, Labor, Primary and Secondary Education, and
Planning would be created to conduct, with the assistance of
a team of expatriate experts, the proposed pre-investment
studies on vocational training (para 4.15).
6.02      Retroactive financing is recommended for the foreign exchange com-
ponent of expenditures on professional fees incurred by the government after
November 1975, subject to a maximum of US$200,000 (para 4.30).
6.03      The establishment of a task force comprising specialists of the
Ministries of Industry, Labor, Primary and Secondary Education, and Planning
to be responsible for implementing the pre-investment studies on vocational
training would be a condition of disbursement for these project items (para 4.15).
6.04      The project is suitable as a basis for a Bank loan of US$47.0 mil-
lion equivalent to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, for a term
of 20 years including a grace period of 5 years.



I



COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICADORS                                     ANNEX I
'( DICEIBEX  3   197S 
I GNP/ I 2 GNP   it TOTAL:!   OF PUBLIC I                o       I           tPRI. :AV.PPI.   I                       :$EC   I        t
I   iCAPITA: DVOTED:PURLIC t EDUCATInN    iLITER- IPRI. 2COMPLE. i5TU- tSCH.TEACHsPRnGRER3-t SEC. vSTU- 3
: :AT   o TO En2u.:  EXP. I RECuIRRENT    UACY             IENROLLITTON        iDENTS,SALARY IN:ITON RATE 2ENROLL:DENTS:HIGHER:
I       ::AROCTt (PUJBLIC:DEVI2TED:EXP ALLOCATED.  ,RATE IRATID IRA"~ FDRsPER   tRELATInN :FROM P0T.cRATIn :PER   OENRn1LL2
I pop,   PR TCEst  2P..1  TO                 Tn10       ((  OF   t NET   tPRI.SCM,sTFACHt Tn GNP/ :T0 SFC.   I NFT  ITFACH- RATTIO
YRI(0OO) : CUSS): ONLY)  I  EDU. iPRT. SEC. Mi.iADULT3):  C!)   #COfCLftX)sER    I CAPITA   t X                         : i  (2)  tER    I r%i      
I   -   I       I I                   1                I          2       I          I       I           2            I        I      0        2
I (I) is  (23  2  (12    1tt I0               (5)      I (6)    a (7)   a  CR)    a (9) a  (1221            (11)      :102)   1(131 2(212) 
ADVANCED
AUSTRIA     ~~71    7,:5C 2,410C     0.3      9*9g    270  250  200    99          99        93        26        2.0         99        Si      19       9*00
CAN4ADA          72   21.8  0.a40         7.7    29.22     10    IA    19      98       89        99        24        2.0        99        92       17       9*90
GERMANY F.REP.72  62,6  3,340             Li.?    24,2     ..  742** 26        99       91        99        33       ...         99        91       22     17.99cr
JAPAN            71 106.9C ?.320C         0. 3    p0,7     39    39    12      99       99D       99C       251       2.0        991       900      ?9C   ?A. 000
NETHERLANDS    72   13,3  2.840           8.5    19.11    32    05    19       99       95        95        29        3.0        97        73       PA     12.00
IdEW ZEALAND    73    2.91 2,560C         5.2    ..,       39    20    29      99       99        99        26       ...         99        67       19     20.m0
NORWAY           72    3.9  3.300         7.0    15.2    -58    23    13       99       99        98        P0        1.9        09        76       la1    2.90
SMEDEN           73   R.1C 4,480C         9.9    16,0      16.  10   1,3    99          99        99        17       ...         90        85l      10     30*90n
U.K.             70  5S.SC 2.600C         S*9    23.9...  .. ... 97                     98        .         28                             se .. 58 2
U.S.A.      72 ~~~208.8  5,590      6.       5071** 27                    99       99        99        2511                  .        93       Q1    2.
EUROPEI
REEC-E-          7t   8.OC 1,060C          .     11.1      50ly  290   100    82A       950       ...       320v                 ?O 7A     -.;0     030    11.90
IRELAND          72    3.0   1.590n       r.2    13,90    030  4t,Y  100    9           97        9012      35       Q. SA                 75       19      7.M00A
PORTUGAL         72    9.7      739.91...                  ..2....0qx                             ...       ...      ...         ...       6520    ...      7.AOIY
SPAIN            71  3a.3C 1.100C         2.08   25.212    09Y  220   IS0    94A        9IA             3~ SA        ...                   PQA9    30       6.00A
AFRICA
ALGERIA     ~~~71   14..2C    O3IOC  9.qA    1, 3,  32    16               Z5A     67        96        01        6           37        19K     26       3.%0
%OTSAANA         72    0.6      160       ...      .,          .     .         N*        00        ,        350r    ...          ...        90Y    1900    0.300v
S3URUNMDI        72    1.6       60       ...       ,       ...... . .                  27090    .,         140    ...           ...        2280   hJAY    01.1580Y
CA4EROhIN        70    6.01    200C       3.0    20.0      380   290   17Y      ,       70.        ..       500      ..           .                 23Cr .yt
C.A.R.           70    2.61    160C       12.01   20.0     56    29     ....            60Cr      25        69CY    ...C851                         V70ey      9
CHAD             70,   3.qC      801      4.3    18,3      77    21    01       7       29280    ...        6690     ..           .         2080   30       01.0190
CONGOC8)         73    1.3c    3001       6.9%   26.4      12590 3580 1590  SO?    1390           ..        61       ...         ...       29       037     2.44ry
DA'4OMEY         73    2.9C    hO(C    53.1    12.0        127   23    1o      11       32X9      7AR       598      PS"2        018        7n      3Q9     0.44tY
ETMIrIPIA        73  25.9C       90       31.    20,0      02    29    28       .7      l7C       422       5o        1          63         2       30       0*20n
GA304            73    0.51    RRAC       5.0    20.6      25      9    II     ,.       8028      291s      426C      5          281A      2C       221      1.09r)r
GHANA            71    9.21    3001       0.7    212.009   180   15O  210    ...        56Cr    62          30Cr Y               214       120      16Cr    0.709Y
IVIRY COAST    72    5.0        300       6.3    20.7      2780 3180 110        9A      52        57A       06                             In .. 1  29        .28
I~ENYA           71   12.IC    2701       6.0    270       6      l     it     40      2052                 an0                   0        1        2          A39y,
LESOTHn2         73    0.9C      90C      0.7    22.0      45C  I5C  242C   140         65                  4 15      .           .         9       22       0nf3
LISERIA          70    1.61.  3331        2.7    13.9      ?S.  11    22       ...      So        ...       39        2.          .         0       20       1.IOAy
MAL~AWI          74   11.7C    1091       1.1    ?0,9.25..                 .. ?         56X       60        5o        7.0        00         02      29)    0l.?br
MALT             74   5.1C       701      0.6N  32.3       368   252   12P    to        28I       2?        00       10.0        37         0       27      A.1f.a9
M4AJAITANTA      TO    1.21    (Soc       0.9    21.0.......                   10       (52       ...       22        ...        ...        io      20
NAJRITIUS        72    0.8      300       3.7    11.70    71    10n      0     90       86        99        II        ...        ...       32       30       2.07C0
moRoccrO         70   15.qC    2701       s.0C   16.5      44    07      9     26?      54X2      22        37        ..1I                 232      P2      2D.9
NIGERIA          71  69.SC    2301        3.?N   ...         0*O  P12A  20A     .       19XCY    ...        I40?CY                                          (I ..  2 20r  ,70v
RWANDA           73    3.71    F601N1    3.PC   29.90          .     .         23       5 ...               S ...  ... 55                   2       23     n9.23r0
SENEGAL          71   40OC    2591        O.ON  22,508   38A  42A   SA    in            190       4.        0         ...        ...       12       29      1.7210
SIERRA LEONE   73    2.7C    2901         A.     23,0      11    36    30      I5?      34X       05,       32        4F         6         130      ?2     A0r93ny
SOMALIA          73    2.9C      401c    ...       I,D     97    16    11       5       II        90        35       15.0        05         3       18      1.9
SIJDAN  72   16.5    229      ~~~~~~12*    213.2  *3    29    28     15      19        iS,       45        0.0        P5        21       29        .3
SW&ZILAND        72    0,4C    260        12*3A  t9.7       37    26    18     28       66        22?       19        7.0        ...       2600y   20        2.0
TA4ZANTA         70   l3.2C    hnC    53.IN   17,0         36    ...  12       63       4a2       ...       49        ...         7         2       211     0.3
TUNISIA          71    5.SC    3901       6.1    23.0      17    01    is      55       72        82        00        6.0        11        1o       21       ;.n
UGANDA           70   20.01    2501       5.2N2  17.bCR  401)  220  250    25A          492CrY    .*        16        ...        24A        12010  21       O0*9940
UPPER VOLTA    72    5.6         60       0.0    23TI9     65   1.0      6      5       to        ...       as       29.0        20         2       21      0.fl1I Y
ZAIRE            73  19.21C    IOC        5.2N   22.31    54C   17C   291    15         63        38        124A      6.0        01         8       212     n.069Y
ZAMBIA           73    0.51    3901       9.6    26.5      441   22    10      43       952       ...       se        ...        20        252      2m      0.448Y
CENTRAL AMERICA AND TH4E CARIBBEAN
COSTA RICA       71    t.SC    6101       5.2    22,       57    25    la    Flo         WYC    65          29         30        9          2Y      2        221
DOM1INICAN REP.??   4.2         490       2.5    25.50R4 12    24    22        St       s0        17        512        3*0n      61        11       214      7.6n
EL SALVADOR    75    3.71    3400         3.6    20.9      61,    S   ea       18*0    7221Y    ..           910       ...       ..         1610 2Cr    ':"BgY
GUATEMALA        73    5.61    0201       1.9    16.0      55    23   212      47       641       26        Is         3.0       69         A       29,     0.9Y
HAITI            72    42.4     130      A0*       6.60    61    12      8     208      22        25?       425        S*0       so         3       21       l.007
HONDURAS         72    2.7      320)      3.9    2b,50    612   13    18       52       812       tl~    37            6.0       79        112Y     to      3.00
JAMAICA     ~~~70    2.91    9291    A*9Y   28.71    110   220    7Y    86         2062Cr      .        52         ..         .         2210   to       4.791Y
MEXICO           70   54.111   7901       2.6      9.1     14    24    12 ... 76        71        12        06         30        6          9        1       631
NICARAGUA        74    2.21    4701       2.7    142,2.......                  57        88X      ...       19Cr        .         .        23       32cr    7*9
TRINIDAD 9 T. 71    I.0C    9001          5.1    18.9      53    27    12      90       95X       87        35         0.        1          9       29'     2.96120
SOUTH AMERICA
BRAZIL           70  98,21    5101        12.3    12,01    42    20      37   7.9       900x                ??Cy71     ...       ...       299      15Cr    6.008I
CIHLE            70   20.0      8001      4.60   10,6Y    3000Y 150Y0  YO  ...    11020    ..               3780       4. ..                12820
COLOMBIA         70  23.01C   2001        12.0    20.9     15    1o   20       73       67        20        36         4.        9          7       24-      1290
ECUADOR          72    6.5      360       3.7    27,71    0500 420Y 1000   69           72        .         38          ..       ..        18       2        4 979Y
GUYANA           74   0.71    12001       S.RN  212.70    47    35    14       B3A      920       39        33         6.0       19        "20      20       2.00
PARAGUAY    ~~74    2.1     320C      1.8    27,9      57    IS  '28       At       as       .286       2    29              65        150      10'     412.0
PERU             71   112.I1   5201C       .       01       0     2      5     7         0        3          90        30        7          4       20       20
VENEZUELA        73   11.11'  212401      126    19.9       10Q  280  350    776k    SI           ...       33         2.0         .       33              t2.41Cr



COMPARATIVE FDUCATION INDICATORS   (cnNTD)                           ANNEX I  PAGE 2
(ozCEMEo 3    1975)
2        SGNP/ i K GNP   it TOTAL:!   OF PUBLIC i               I       I          :PRI. IAV.PRI.   I             I        ISEC  2I        I
I       oCAPITAI DEVOTEQIPUBLIC t EDUCATION    ILITER- IPRI. 1COMPLF. tSTU- ISCH.TEACHtPROGRESS-1 SEC. ISTU- I 
I       i  AT  u TO EOU.t  EXP. i RECURRENT    lACY            sENROLLiTION        2DENTSXSALARY INiXON RATE tENROLL2DENTSiHIGHER2
I       IWARKETI (PIJBLICiDEvnTEDXEXP ALLOCATED.   RATE iRATIn uRATLE Fog,PER  2RELATInN  PROnm PRI.9RATIn 2PFR  ZENRMLL:
IPOP, SPRICESS EXP..  i  TO    2           TOE,    lotl OF  t NET  IPRI.SCM,,TEACH: TO GNP/ sTO SEC.  U NET  ITEACH- RATItO
YRt(0001  2 (OfSI)i ONLY)          FDol. sPRI. SEC. Hi.sADULTS)i  (I)  ICYCLE(IItfR    2 CAPITA   I 1)                  (8)  :ER    I (12   I
I(2) 2p  (21 2  (3)    2  (41  2           (5)       2 C6)    2 (7)  2  CRk)    2(9) I  (14)    I (I21           if]?)  W(31 2(141
ASIA AND OCFANIA
BANGLADESH4   .73  72.5C.   70C          1.2    20,2...  .. ... 23                   560       ...      49                             III..  3  281
CHINA(TAIWAN) 73  l5.1CI   4901          1.3   1.4,0     28   42    22       B2      98        94i      42        14*0       84        55      26       50
TNDIA           71 563.5,  2101C    2.6vv            ..29                            790        .       43A         *..      *I.78             7OAY    4 OflAy
INDONIESIA      73 122.01;  1201        2.8    11.'0     63   23    14       be      63        40'      32         5,4       11         2      16      P7*00
(RAN            73  2*         4501     3-3    22,6      i0B   too  1211   5o        77        74A      32         5.np      804A      24      37       4.3RfCY
IRAQ            70  10.1C1  370C        6.7    16,3R ........    ?6                  AICY      ...      22         ...       ...       2GXCY  26        6.7,Rrv
JORDAN          73   2.4ci  p770        7.0      8.8     52    is   21       59      918       76        38        S.00      84I       504     27       4,00
XO*EA           73  32.31    312C        2.9    29,3     64   26       S    9e       97        90       53         3.00      71        5t      39       &.00
LESAMON         7 2   2.9      70ti      3. 5    28,0    39    4 0    I,0    6S      86        61        2 9       2. 00     63        2611    25      23*00n f
MALAYSIA        72  21.0       430       6.4   22,70.*......                         900       ..       3           ...      ...       330     26       ..
)M44N           72   0,6       530      7.3      1,8     96          -               24X       99       33         7.00      ...        0.40    9         w
PAKI$TAN        75  66.71    1301        1.6     6,2     45    25    to    2~   47X            So1       39        2.00      ...       174     28      f6.00
XHILTPPI2AES    74  39.01.  770f1        2.5    14.9     73    is   22       a7     204X        .        34         25       *.        460             72i.0
si4rApoR!       72   2.I2  1200         1. IN  16.2      44    31    is    75A    2070         72'      33         ..        9         4       14      R1: I',
TH4AILAND       73  38.5       2201     3..DN   18.7     S      9   I,.5   82,    878         9)3      32         3*01    92          210     24       7,
TURKEY          72  37.0       370       *,     13,ODR.IoSxry                                  ..       34DY       *.         .        220    2770        AIRY5
YEMEN           73   6. 3      I00       0.5     4 0     45P   I1      3     1        5        1Y        36        5.00      75         2y     I 9      A.n5aY
YEMEN P.D.R.  72?    1.5    I200        ?.3A  2 2.6      79   1.2            I p     700       32       29        100         9        220     2 70     0.A y
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.I0                                         Il
SU4MARY FOR DEVELOPING C11JNTRIESt
NUMBER OF COUINTRIESt                    67     67      601   59   59       62      73        41       72          38       41       73       69       f67
--GE   -----(.---2--0-   0-                                           (5-     21-       (1 7-     (29-      (I*0.   (7-         (.4-    (9-      s.oI .
4.0 I  32.31   96 ) 521   4 0    981I    28t40        99 )      66  )      25. 0)    99 )     75.0)   43 )     23.0)
DUARTILES:UPPER 2                     4 .7   22,0'    57    36   70       68       92       76        a5          7        76       76       2#6     4*7 9
MEDIAN:                   4*0    28.2      s0    27    1s     50       72       56        38          a        63       16       23;    ;,.A
LOWER i                   3.0    14 .4     42    2 7   1 1    20       48      ?25        33          3        75         F      14     n0,53
SY4nRLSl ... DATUM IINAVA7LARLE                 Avt970 OR REFORE             NuCURRENT PRTCES                          .SnUPCFS:
-  MAGNYTUDE '(1L OR NFGLTGIRLF 8.2971                            4.GDP----
?  DIIESTTINABLF                     r-1972                       P*TNCLtIDYNG FOREIGN 420                   CnOIUMNSSl AmO 7 WORLD RANK
A  INCLIIDFS PA4T.TIHE STUnENTS D0=973                            OSCENTRAL G,OVT. ONLY                                          ATLAS
**COMBINED OTTH PRIMARY             Fz1974                       RWMINISTRY OF EDUCATION (mOE) nlNLY                  3 TO la TROD -IS00fnNq
sAmDE ANn STATF GOVT. ONLY                                    ANn/nR IINMFqCl
T*FXCL[IOING CENTRAL GOVT.                                    STAITSTICAl
'J3PURLTC ONLY                                                YEARR810K
V%INCLLIDTING PRIVATE EXPENDITIJRF
OWBINCLIJOING nVFRAGED STUDENTS
YwIJNFSCO SOURCES
-------------------------------.---r---------------------  -----------
COMPARAYTVE EDUCATTIN MATA ARE USEFUL TN THE EVALUATION OF VARTIUS EnUCATION SYSTEMS AND AN4ALYSIS OF PFLATTVF .STAGFS OF EDI)CATIONAL
)EVELOPMENT BETWEEN VA 9InUS COUNTRIES. HnWEVFR,)N THE RASTS OIF THE PRESENT DATA.CpnSSAmATIONAL COMPAPRISN RHnlIJLn ME APPRnACHFI WITH
GREST CAUTION. DATA PR75 ENTED Iy THE ABOVE T ARLE HAVE REEN cnLLErTFO LARGELY sy THE RANK MISSIONS FROnM GnVERNOFNT SnI)RCES12 THE
REM4AINDER ARE STAFF ES TIMATES OR DATA FROJM UNESCn. EFFORTS HAVF 9EEN MADE TO STANOARDIZE OfEFNITTIONS AND WITTHIN I IMTTS, Tr CHECK THE
ACCURACY OF THE DATA. 4EVERTHELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEVERAL RESPECTS AND THE RANK IS WORXINJE TO IMPROVF THFM
PROGRESSIVELY ON THE 3QCASTON OF ITs nPERATIONAL WORK* IN THF UISE OF THESE DATA, THE FLOLLOWING DItAlIFTCATInFiO SHOULD RF ROPNF IN
MIND:
(2)"EDUCATInN' AS IEFINED IN THE TARLE INCLUDES ALL EDUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL ANn NON-FTO"All
(2i-PRIMARY EDIJIATTON REFERS 171 EDUJCATION AT THE FIRST LFVEL AND "SECONDARY" EDUCATION RFEFRS TO ALL E)I)CATInOL AT THE SErONDARY
,LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPF (E.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTII4ALi 
(3)'LITFPACY RATESICCOL.6) ARE OFTEN ORTATNED FROM COUNTRY CENSUSES. IN MANYCOUJNTR2ES THEY ARF ONLY APPW7OTMATTONS AND IT IS
.DOUBTFUIL THAT ANY UiNIFORM DEFINITION OF -LITERATfE HAS REEN FOLLOWED CONSISTENTLYI
(4)NPUBLIC EXPENDITiJRE IN EDLUCATYDN"(COLS.3.4 AND S) REFER TO ALL CA21ITAL AND RECURRENT PXPFNDITTIRFS OFVOTFO TO FDUICATION PY
PUBLIC AND IUASI-PUSLIt 4GENCIESt
(Si-ENROLLMENT RATIOS' (COLS 7, 12 AND 14) REFER TO SCHOOL YEAR AND MFAN THE PERCENTAGE OF ELIGIOL F CHILDREN FNRPOLLEI  FIlL -TITME
IN THE APPROPRIATF SCHOOL, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL. THEY ARE OFTEN SURJECT TO A AID! MARGIN OF ERRnR IN THE DFVElO)PING
COUNTRIES OWING In VARIATION IN THE ACCURACY OF 8ASIC DATA(I.E. AGE-SPECIFIC POPULATION AND ENROLLMENTS). ENROLLMENT FIC,URES
FREGUErNTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER OF STUODENTS ACTUALLY TIN  SCHOOL. nVFRAGED STUDENTS wHOSF INCLUSION IS IN'DICATFD  FtY
FnOOTNOTES ALSO CAN INFLATE THE RATIOS.



AIINE 2
ALGERIA II
PROJECTSD AVERAGE AIIMAL MANPOiER
REQUIRDIETS AND SUPPIL
TO 1990
EWected Output         Suggested Direction
Projected Average Annual   from Education System           of Manpower
Occupational GrouPs             Levels         Training Needs 1985-1990            in 1977                 Dsvel_flent _
1. Agriculture                     6                   300 -    400                   100                       +
5                  500-    600                     540                      0
4                1,100-  1,400                  1,560                       _
3                3,000-  4,000                   1,710                      +
2. Scientific and Technical        6                 1,400 -  1,600                   920                       +
5                1,500-  1,700                     350                      +
4                4,000- 4,500                    3,690                      +
3               13,000 - 15,000                 6,500                       +
3. Economic and Comsercial         6                   550 -    650                   740
5                1,200-  1,400                     510                      +
4                3,000-  6,000                  1,500                       +
3               11,000 - 14,000                 2,930                       +
4. Legal                           6                   300 -    400                   850
5                   80-    120                     ...                      +
14                 200 -    300                    ...                      +
3                  200-    300                     ...
5. Teaching and Research           6                1,600 -  2,100
5,350                      +
5                4,000-  4,700
14               5,500-  6,500
5,000                      +
3                  -        -
6. Medical                         6                 1,100 - 1,300                    920                       +
5                  700-    900                    450                       +
4                2,600-  3,000                   2,500                      +
3                1,000 -  1,300                                             +
7. Others                          6                   140 -    180                   150                       0
5                   70 -    100                     80                      0
4                  100-    120                     ...                      +
3                  -        -                      ...                      0
TOTAL                       6                5,400 -  6,600                  6,640                       0
5                8,100-  9,500                  4,330                       +
4               16,500 - 21,800                  9,250                      +
3               28,200- 34,600                 16,140                       +
Source:  UNESCO, Alg6rie - Besoins en main-d'oeuvre et developpement 6ducatif en Algerie (Paris, octobre, 1973);
staff estimates.
3/ Corresponding to: professionals, higher technicians, middle level technicians and skilled workers, respectively.
The symbols (+), (0) and (-) indicate the need for expansion, invariance or decrease, respectively.






Annex. 3
ALGERIA
THE DEVELOPING STRUCTURE
OF THE FORMAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM1
1971-1975
~~~~ ~~~Fundamental                                             "
I<F      Middle or First Cycle        Second Cycle Secondary    . |                  - H ighwr Education
Secondary
Elementrvy                                                                               Faculties or Schools of;
Lyees (Ganeral)                   Law; Economics
il                    ~~~~~~~A rab I.
PSociology; Demoraphy; Gesography
Humanities        _       _ 
ArcY tra         i             ofTecntilital                   Humanities
o1--15- _ B~~~~~~ Meths,n.tin-|>'S 
Sciencers                                               I     
- E        }        _4              Me_dicine'
C E P                                                                of MinhirnisfP DPrtiarya    Psychonogy      n
Tpechain Education (Technical and Scinc.l g
~~~~~~A                 All  insries engge  iTrnil
. Become(euhicl
*   Brevet dEnselgnemant Moyan and new nelectina pointi9; Ag,c.11.
O   S tv enischer Education eScidc   Humanities
CEP - Middle Sd,oole (Centre dEngeignemant Polynaclsise)LWorl BAn 1k    9R1"          A
T  cho, T,.ining I nstitute.          TrJ cher Training Technical (Middle Schoo3B)
Regional Agri..lt.ral
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
Collsp (M.A.)                 Tecshnological Instit.tes (AM)
Tfth.icu.ms                6      { 
T chnologicaM  nsUtit.t- (AM )
- ~~~~~~~~Technician.
Lo       nal Schoo         Vocational Wings                 }       }
Agrcultural Schools           of Techni.al LV'6es
,rI T. b. msb6I~s                                                                        J  O  B    M   A   R  K  E  T
In processof phasing out or co.version to CEP                                              'I n.titutio..lizred *fforts of Mini.trl.. of Pri-yr and Sftondary Education;
1 nt-.nsip prior to award of dielom.                                                         of Higher Ed.c.tion, unless oth.-is. shown, * g
AM    All Mi.ntflstr  engaged in T,.ining
j3Prs r.or  Y-r                                                                                     MA   Ministry of Ag,ic.lt-re
13B,v  d'Enesan mont Uoy*n and n- w electiN. point
0 SelKthew Examination to be phas d out
CEP -Middle Schoobs (Centni d Enmig"-. t Polytschise)                                                                                         World Bank-655912R)






ALGERIA
EDUCATION PYRAMID 1973-1974, FORMAL SYSTEM
Normal                                                                                          BY GRADE AND LEVEL OF EDCTN1
Age    Grade
22
21                                                                                                              A l/l     I_            _ _   _  _ _  _   _   _ _  _  _
25,670           66500
20 IF
10
18 13                                                                                                12 81766       46962
17 12                                                                                               15,098          5,293
16                                                                                              24o,6r73___________________
13 904,93'8
12 795,3720
8 38                                                                               56,63                                      3,19
1 27~~~~~C
111111                                 I111111  I 
8:rScodr
4~ ~ ~~~~~~TnlPpllo  nAeCypPiayPa-rmr                                                                                                                                                   i~Hge
1/8 ldsoe ae  rdas
7 2/ nldspr-eodr  nrahrc   s
61~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/rdOe     290
BOYS                                     GIRLS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



I



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 6
EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY, PLANS AND PROGRAMS--
A SUMMARY EVALUATION
Introduction
1.        In the last ten years, the Algerian Government has sought to develop
education and training resources which can perform an economic, political and
social function in the development of the Algerian society. This urgency
has been reflected in a very substantial expansion of the education and train-
ing system, the dynamic search for and application of appropriate reform meas-
ures, and the creative introduction of new forms and patterns of education and
training. As a result, a foreign, elitist and irrelevent education system is
becoming an instrument for the effective algerianization of a modern industrial-
izing economy, and the creation of a unified society imbued with a value system
identified with the Arab culture and language, and consistent with Algerian
socialism.
2.        Human resource development strategy has, therefore, been determined
by this requirement of growth coupled with reform, the result of linking
economic policies with social and politico-cultural progress. The objectives,
the content, the orientations, the structure, the organization and the admin-
istration of the education system have been reviewed in this framework of
economic and social advancement. The system is in the process of transforma-
tion; problems of jurisdiction arise in this transitional period but the main
thrust is constantly to maintain momentum in the desired direction; issues
which may arise can be given more detailed consideration later, provided the
action taken will deal with a shortage area or clear a bottleneck.
Administration and Organization
3.        The Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (MPSE) is respon-
sible for primary (grades 1 - 6/7) and second level (grades 7 - 13) education
and for training teachers for primary and middle (first cycle secondary)
schools. A certain degree of decentralization of administrative and super-
visory functions has been achieved as also of plan implementation. The plan-
ning function of the MPSE has been very competently carried out resulting in
a detailed short-term program, 1974-77, set in the perspective of 1985 objec-
tives and targets on a national, regional and district basis.
4.        The Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research (MHESR),
established in 1971, has jurisdiction over post-secondary education, but
for the present administers only universities. It has not as yet been given
the resources to develop a full capability either in management or planning
and the urgency for action has not allowed time for a comprehensive and
planned approach to developments at this level. However, an important reform
of the administrative and organizational priorities and patterns is now
underway, a range of new courses is being introduced and curricula are under
scrutiny.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 6
5.        In view of the gestation period required for the formal education
system to respond to skilled manpower needs, ministries charged with respon-
sibilities for development in the productive sectors of the economy have
established and continue to establish institutions to train their own manpower
more rapidly and to their own specifications. As a result, the Ministries of
Industry and Energy, Labor, Agriculture, and others are now involved in spec-
ialized training at higher, middle, and skilled and semi-skilled levels. The
"Institutes of Technology" and the training centers so set up have the sig-
nificant advantage that their curricula are developed by the users of the
outputs of the institutions. Coordination and collaboration between technical
ministries conducting post-secondary programs and the MOIHE, however, is still
in a preliminary stage.
Development and Reform of Education
6.        The formal education system is in a stage of transition as a result
of the initiation of an extensive re-structuring operation accompanied by
curricula and organizational reforms at all levels. The changes to the system
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education
(MPSE) are incorporated into a Plan Quadrennial, 1974-77 prepared by the
Ministry, and were accepted almost without change in the national Second
Development Plan, 1974-1977.
7.        Data on the structure, enrollment growth, outputs, teachers, effi-
ciency and productivity of the existing system are included in the analysis
and evaluation of the MPSE Plan, 1974-77, and of the MHESR proposals and
actions. The Table below summarizes data contained in Annex 8 and shows two
fold, seven fold, and fifteen fold increase in enrollments in the last I0 years
at primary, secondary 1/ and higher education levels, respectively.  The Table
also shows the Plan's projected enrollment target for 1977-78 and the mission's
perspective planning target for 1984-85:
1/   Including m:ddle schools.



ANNEX U
Page 3 ot o
In Thousands
Level/Type                     1963-64     1973-74    1977-78        1984-85
Primary (Grades 1-6/7)          1,039    2,376(67%)  2,880(74%)  3,763(100%)
Middle (Grades 7-9)         )              299(21%)    565(31%)  1,400(90%)
)     56
Secondary General           )
(Grades 10-12)            )               57(8%)      120(14%)    360(36%)
Technical                           -        7            4            -
Technicums                          -         1          40          100
Teacher Education
(Primary)                         1        5            8           10
Other Secondary Level              27         2          10           20
Teacher Education (Middle)          -         2(3.5%)     5(5.6%)      8(7%)
Institutes of Technology
(Grade 13/14/15)                 -        16           14           42
University                          3       30           70          110
( ) As percentage of relevant age group.
8.        The strategy implied in the above is:
(a)  a steady build-up of the lower part of Fundamental
Education (Grades 1-6) in enrollments from the equivalent
of 86% of the 6 through 11 years age group in 1973-74 to
the equivalent of 100% in 1984-1985, and the elimination
of the large numbers of over-age children through improved
education and social services and their gradual movement
into the re-organized upper cycle (Grades 7-9) of
Fundamental Education ("polytechnic cycle"). In the Plan,
1974-77, the transformation/conversion of existing middle
schools (Grades 7-10) is gradual; the lower level technicum
(Grade 7-10) is phased out entirely;
(b)  a considerable build-up of the polytechnic cycle in the
Plan, 74-77 period and a very rapid expansion in the
Third Plan Period; the same strategy applies to the re-
organized and upgraded technicums or vocational schools as
also with secondary general, except that for the latter
the urgency for really rapid development will come in the
Fourth Plan Period;
(c)  in higher education, the mission is proposing an increas-
ing emphasis on non-university level post-secondary educa-
tion, though university status education (all types) will
also grow substantially if not controlled.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 6
These enrollments targets have substantial repercussions on the
construction and teacher education program:
Additional Teachers /1      New Places /2
Average Annual Need       Average Annual Need
1974-85                   1974-85
ririmary                                    6,500                   126,100
Middle (Polytechnic Cycle)                  4,500                   100,000
Secondary General                         )                          27,500
a2chnicum                                ) 2,500                      8,200
urinary and Middle Teacher Training       )                           1.200
Post-Secondary (all types)                    700                     8,800
'1 Allowing for replacement of wastage and algerianization of corps.
/2 Assuming that existing places are adequate for existing enrollments
and will not need replacement by 1984.
Quality Implications of the Re-Organization and Reform Programs
9.        The proposed structural changes in the first two levels of educa-
tion are conjoined with major reform measures which should improve the effi-
ciency and productivity of the system, reduce costs and eliminate inequities
in the traditional system.
10.       The first major reform concerns the Objectives and Content of
education. The Fundamental Education School (Grades 1 - 9) will comprise a
common education core for all with optional practical elements consonant with
the aptitudes and interests of individual children and in keeping with the
environmental requirements and opportunities. Fundamental Education will be
primarily concerned to meet the social demand for education; hence its content
is determined by the need for all-round development of the future citizens
rather than by economic factors. On the other hand, the education provided
is so balanced as to bring out the special aptitudes of individuals and also
to ensure their adaptability for further training. New promotion and testing
procedures and practices will be introduced. Curricula will be broadened to
include sciences, agriculture, industrial arts, and home economics.
11.       The objectives of the secondary schools need to be more clearly
enunciated. However, the progression rates set for movement from secondary
to higher education seem to imply that the technicums are clearly job-oriented,
the specialized secondary schools clearly university-preparatory, but that the
curriculum of the general secondary school should not be overly university-
preparatory since 50% of the output is expected to move directly into the
labor irrket. The secondary general or comprehensive school should be the
main source of well-prepared students/trainees for further training not in
uni-Jersities alone, but in all kinds of post-secondary institutions, and in
formal, non-formal and on-the-job training situations. This concept has now
gained ground and to the Institut Pedagogique National (IPN) will devolve the
task of reviewing secondary level curricula accordingly and also preparing
and validating appropriate new testing meassures.



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 6
12.       In this synamic context of reform, the IPN in fact assumes a major
role together with the planner/programmers of the MPSE. While the latter
work on assuring smooth implementation action and phasing, and preparation
of appropriate administrative regulations, organizational procedures and
operational guidelines, the IPN must develop the capability for a relevant
applied research program, and also assist in the planning and mounting of
relevant in-service training programs for all types of personnel (supervisors,
national and local education administrators, etc.) required by the multi-faceted
reform. The Plan 74-77 in fact proposes to reinforce existing research agencies
and to support where necessary new agencies for research on education problems,
for curriculum development, for design and production of teaching aids including
textbooks and science equipment, and for further developing school facilities'
norms and standards. To this end, the Institut Pedagogique National (IPN),
under its new title, the Center for Education Research and Development, will
incorporate the National Center for Science Equipment, and a Norms and Stand-
ards Unit now only of limited scope and impact.
13.       At the same time, the uplifting and equalization policy requires
that the Centre National d'Enseignement Generalise (CNEG), or Center for
Complementary Education, programs be expanded and revised to assure oppor-
tunities for acquisition of the necessary academic attainment levels by those
adolescents and adults who had dropped out of the education system or who had
never entered the system. It is proposed to go further in a global means
approach, including correspondence, radio and television, in reaching the
population as a whole in a continuing educational process. Similarly the
CNA (Literacy) program is to be intensified and improved. These institutions
will be improved and affiliated to the Center for Educational Research and
Development.
University Education (MHESR)
14.       The policy statement on Higher Education of 1971 states the objective
of higher education to be the preparation of the cadres required for the real-
ization of the objectives and targets of the State plans. This it can do,
particularly as regards attitudes and rapidly usable skills, if it diversifies
its structural profiles and defines to a greater extent the curricula in con-
junction with the users of the output.
15.       A number of reforms are being introduced:  the wasteful university-
preparatory year is being eliminated; the academic year lengthened by two
months; the semester and credit system will improve flows and insure increased
outputs, if at the same time the old examination regulations are replaced by
a continuous evaluation system and make-up of lost time or of failure is
permitted; courses are to be integrated into related clusters of common
courses and be given module form; thus there could be real opportunity for
horizontal and vertical transfer and movement; decision on the final course
could also be deferred for some time, e.g., as between pharmacy and medicine;
the education technology used is to be modernized; all students will include
Arabic studies in their programs; wherever feasible, programs should include
a period of on-the-job training.



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of 6
16.       These reforms, however, need to be supported by careful planning
of the courses of study and of the enrollment structure of each course to be
introduced. In addition, once the longer-term physical and program planning
has been prepared, a carefully planned staff development program should be
implemented. The Second Development Plan, 1974-77, gives the following
enrollment projections but admits that the distribution is a guestimate as
there is no overall "carte universitaire", or university inventory, at present.
(This projection does not take into account enrollments in university level
institutions controlled by other ministries):
Enrollments In Thousands
Region          73/74   74/75   75/76   76/77   77/78   78/79   79/80   80/81
Center             20      24      27       30      32      33.5     35      38
West                6       8      10       12      15      17       20      21
East                6       8      12       14      15      17       20      21 
32      40      49       56      62      67.5     75      80
17.       It is difficult to see how these targets are to be achieved in the
case of some of the proposed new universities insofar as master plans and the
detailed educational and architectural briefs should already be available for
universities which are to be operative in 1978-1979. The targets may, of
course, be achieved by re-naming as a University an existing Institute of
Technology as has been just done with the Institute of Mining and Metallurgy
at Annaba. Again, if action proposed in the Second Development Plan by minis-
tries other than the Ministry of Higher Education for institutions at post-
secondary level is included then the targets may be met.
18.       In regard to the MOHE the main problem will be to develop a manage-
ment, planning and execution capability adequate to the tasks ahead. In this
respect, it needs to be strengthened considerably, additional areas of func-
tions introduced, and its personnel appointed on a full-time basis. The
Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Agriculture, on the other hand,
have well-developed training departments which have gained considerable
positive experience in the planning and management of their institutions
of higher learning.



ANNEX 6
ALGERIA II                P-gF 1 of 3
BASIC DATA ON UNIVERSITY EDUCATION
i.  Enrollment Growth, 1963 - 1975
Index
1962-63                         3,718                            100
1963-64                         5,269                            142
1964-65                         6,866                            185
1965-66                         7,034                            189
1966-67                         8,415                            226
1967-68                         9,210                            248
1968-69                        10,756                            289
1969-70                        13,836                            372
1970-71                        19,311                            519
1971-72                        24,334                            654
1972-73                        27,122                            729
1973-74                        30,070                            809
1974-75                        35,671                            959
ii.  Enrollment Distribution by Universities, 1973-74
Algiers                        18,761                            62
Constantine                     5,744                            19
Oran                            5,575                            19
Tot al           30,070                           100



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
iii. Enrollment Distribution by Specializations, 1973-74
University of:                                     Percentage
Specializations                  Algiers       Constantine        Oran          Total         Distribution
Law                               3,031            1,657         1,442          6,130              20.4
Economics                         1,690              441           521          2,652               8.8
Humanities                        2,934            1,244           985          5,163              17.2
Medicine                          3,749              687           791          5,227              17.4
Sciences                          4,343            1,531         1,537          7,411              24.7
Engineering
(Ecole Polytechnique)             355             -             -               355              1.2
.Agriculture                        422             -              -              422              1.4
Commfrcs                            352              -             -              352               1.2
Political Science                   853              -             -              853               2.8
Archit_cture                        356             -             -              356               1.2
School of Chemistry                 115              -             -              115               0.4
School of Journalism                 239             -             -              23J               0.8
tnstitute of Geography               101             -             -              101               0.3
InstiUute of Psychology              211             184           -              395               1.3
Institute of 0ptics                  -               -              16             16               ...
ENSEP (Technical Teachers)           -             _               283            283               0.9
Total                    18,751           5,744         5,575         30,070             100.0
iv.  Teechers, 1973-c
Algerian         Expatriates        Total
Algiers                             848                 731          1,579
Oran                                 161                309             470
Constantine                          298                534             832
Total                       1,307              1,574 (54.6%) 2,881



ANNE 6
Page 3 of 3
v.  Output from Universities, 1970 - 1974
1969/70     1970/71      1971/72     1972/73      1973/74
Law                     89         218          308          328         399
Economics               73          87          176          187         266
Humanities             195         284          457          883         340
Sciences                72         141          244         268          182
Medicine                54          91          129          131         348
Pharmacy                25          34           74         178           71
Dentistry               26          72           65           67         141
Engineering            65           91            0          94          122
Commerce                36          55           64          65           58
Architecture            37          23           17          24           19
Agriculture             21          21           38           48          79
Chemistry              19           20           39          48           14
Journalism              19          28           31           34          42
Phsychology             43          19           45           41          55
Interpretation          23          31            -           28         n.a.
Political Science       14          30           50           22          73
Total          811        1,244       1,734        2,455        2,488
vi. Fellowships, 1973-74
In Algeria: about 19,000 (2/3 of students)
Abroad:              1,546 (238 undergraduate; 1,308 graduate studies)



ALGERIA 11                                                                 JNNEX 7
INSTITUTES OF TECHNOLOGY, 1972-73
Eunrollment
Norna  Leve                    Duration of                  Middle Level         Higher Technician
Ministry                                               Location                         of Entry                       Studies                    Technicians           or Professionals
1. AGRICULTURE &              Agriculture                 Mostaganen                     Grade 12                       4 yes                               -                    1,841
AGRARIAN REWORM
Horticulture               Algiers                        Grade 10                       3 ye.se                            149                      -
Forestry                   Batna                          Grade 10                       3 yars                              51                      -
2. INDUSTRY &                 Hydrocarbons and            Boumerdes                      Grade 13 (BAC)                 5 years                         1,143                    1,183
ENSGY                      Chemistry                                                Grade 10 (BSM)                 4 yePse
Light Industry             Boumerdes                      Grade 13 (BAC)                 5 years                            309                      85
Grade 10                      4 years
Algerian Petrole           DIar El Beida                  University degree               1 year                            350                     313
Iastitste                                               Grade 13 (bAC)                 5 yearn
Grade 12-13                    6 tI 17  rnctho
Mining, Metallurgy          a-aha                         Grade 13 (BAC)                 5 years                            524                     244
and Constru-tien                                        Grade 10                       4 years
Mnterials D
3. lAdOR e  SOCIAL            Publi Works                 Zoba                           Grad  10-11                    26 earths                          747                      -
AFFAIRS
Electra--neehaninal        Algiers                        Grade 10                       3 ad 4 ype                         302
Maintenance
4. PUBLIC WORKS                Public Works              DSa El Meida                    Grade 13 (BAC)                 4 years                            185                     235
5. WATER SUPPLY &             Hlydraulics                 Blida                          Grade 13 (SAC)                 S yeses                             -                      124
LARD RECIAMVTION
6. TRANSPORTATION             Hyd-oaeteorology            Oran                           University degree              2 yea-s                             21                      68
Grade 13 (BAC)                4 years
Grade 12                       2 yeara
Grade 10 (GEM)                 1 year
7. FINANCE                    Accaunting, Tea S.aw,       Algiers                        Grade 10, 11, 12,              6 to 36  -ntha                     245                     152
Soaking, Insurance                                        13 (BAC)
8. PLANNING                    Planning Techeiques        Algi-rs                        Grade 13 (SAC)                 4 years                             -                      290
and Applied Eco-
.omico
9. OS0EECE                    Coeerce                     Ben Aksnon                     Grade 12-13                    3 y ars                            135                     259
Grade 10-11                    2 years
10. TOURISM                    erol and T-urian           Tizi-O.o.                      Cr-ad  10-11                   2 years                            162                      -
Hotel                      Bo-Saada                       Grade 10                       2 yearn                            167                       -
11. POST & TELEO}OHlI.          Telecannuoicationo         Oran                           Grde 12                        4ye                                                        231
CATTOGS                    &  le-trni-                                              Grad  12                       3 yaars
Grade 10 or 11                 16  -onths
12. PUBLIC HEALTH               Pablis Health              Algiers                        Gcsde 12                       3 years                             -                      190
Public Health              Constantine                    Grade 12                       3 years                            189                      189
Grade 11                       3 year
Grade 10                       2 years
PYblic Health              Oran                           Grade 12-13                     3 y.ars                           103                       94
Grade 11-12                    3 years
Grads 10                       2 years
TOTAL          4,782                   5,498
Source:  Secr-Iarist d'Etat a. Plan, Enqurte sur lea htablis-roentc do fornation 1973.
EI Psluding Institates of Techanlogy of Edo.ation (Toacher Training Colleges) under tho MIinistry  f Educatlos



ALGERIA II
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED ENROLLMENT5 1973/74 - 1984/85
1973/74                                                                       1977/78                                                1984/85
Percentage                Teachers                           Student/Teacher                             Percentage        Teachers                             Percentage        Teachers
Errollnents      of Age Greup        Algerian       Expatriate       Tetal            Ratio_             Enrollments       of Age Group       Required         Enrollments       of Age GrouP        Required
A. Primary (grades I - 6)             2,376,344            70.2 1/         52,094            2,888       54,982             43:1               2,878,000             75 i/           76,000           3,763,000           IO1 oi          102,000
B. Middle (grades 7 - 10
sntil 1980; 7 - 9 there-
after)                             299,908            20.9             5,923            4,990       10,913             30:1                 570,000            32              19,000           1,400,000             90              50,000
TOTAL PUNDAMENTAL
EDUCATION                     2,676,212             63.5            58,017            7,878      65,895              41:1                      l             73              95,000              63                 97             152,000
C. Secondary (grades 11 - 13
until 1980; 10 - 12
thereafter)
General                             57,470                             1,091            1,766        2,857             20:1                 200,000                              5,000             360,000
Technical                            6,881                           )                                                                        4,000                                200                  -
364              241         605             14:1
Techlicums                           1,322                           )                                                                       40,000                             2,000              100,000
Primacy Teacher Tra-eing             4,833                               208              367          575              8:1                   8,000                                400              12,000
Others                               2,000                              n.a.             n.a.         n.a.             n.a.                  10.000                                700              20,000
TOTAL SECONDARY                       70,506             7.6             1,663             ,374        4,037             18:1                 162,000             14               8300              492_000            36              25,000
D. Higher
University                          30,070                             1,307            1,574        2,881             10:1                  64,000                              5,300             100,000
Teacher Education ..                 2,102                              n,a              n.a.          100 (est.)      20:1                    5,000                               300               8,000
Institutes of Technology 4/         15,700 (eat.)                       n.a.             n.a.        1,500 (eat.)      10:1                  gL2000                              1,300              42,000
TOTAL HIGHER                          47,872             3.5              na.a             _a.         4,481             11:1                   89.000             5.6             6,900             150,000             7.2             11,600
Source:  Mini.Lare des Ens.iguementa Primaire et Secondaire, Infmrmatio.n  Statistiquea A.nee 1973-1974; TII  Plon Quadriennal 1974-1977; stsff estimates
1/  Age group 6 thr-ugh 13 until 1980/81; then 6 through 11.  The percentage for 1973/74 corresponds tC  a net enrollment eatie  of 67.2%.
2/  Includes 15,000 in reominig CollAges d'E-nsignert Technique and 49,000 in Middle Schooln cuoverted into Celleges d'Enseignemet Polytechniss.
3/  Ans-en that course will be extended to tro years as from 1980-1981.
4/ Incomplete data.



ANNEX 9
ALGERIA II                                       Page 1 of 4
EDUCATI0N FINANCE
Central Government Expenditures on Education, 1969 - 1974 (A.D. million; current prices)
1969         1970         1971         1972         1973          1974
Recurrent Expenditures
on Education:
Ministries of Education        846.9        996.8      1,231.4      1,444.8       1,650.6      2,077.0
Other Ministries               109.6        176.8        235.3         280.7        325.7        n.a.
Total                        956.5      1,173.6      1,466.7       1,725.5      1,976.3        n.a.
Capital Expenditures
on Education: -
Ministries of Education        474.3        641.9        576.3         580.6        778.0      1,365.0
Other Ministries                93.0        110.0        160.0         160.0        127.0        n.a.
Total                        567.3        751.9        736.3         740.6        905.0        n.a.
Total Expenditures
on Education:                            -
Ministries of Education      1,321.2      1,638.7      1,807.7       2,025.4      2,428.6      3,442.o
Other Ministries               202.6        286.8        395.3         440.7        452.7        n.a.
Total                      1,523.8      1,925.5      2,203.0          466.1     2,881.3        n.a.
Recurrent Expenditures on
Education as a % of
Recurrent Budget                     26.7         27.5         31.2          32.2         30.7         28.2  /
Capital Expenditures on
Education as a % of
Capital  Budget                      17.2         14.8         30.3         24.6          23.3         21.0 1/
Total Expenditure on Education
as R % of GDP                         7.4          8.4          9.4          8.8           9.2          6.8
Source: Ministry of Finance; staff estimates
j Ministries of Education only



ANNEX 9
Pago 2 of 4
ii. Ministries of Education Recurrent Budget, 1975
(A.D. million; current prices)
A.D. million          %
Primary                              1,087.4            43.1
Secondary                              694.0            27.6
Teacher Training                       100.3             4.0
Higher                                 407.5            16.1
Non-Formal                              11.1             0.4
Administrative and
Other Expenses                       223.3             8.8
TOTAL                         2,523.6            100.0
Source: MPSE and NHESR Operating Budgets for 1975



ANMEI 9
P-gr 3 of 4
iii.  Public Investment Plpn 1974 - 1977
A.D. Billions
1973 prices                  %
Industry                                  48.000                    43.5
Agriculture                               12.005                    10.9
Water Supply                               4.600                     4.2
Tourism                                    1.500                     1.4
Fisheries                                  0.155                     0.1
Economic Infrastructures                  15.521                    14.0
Education and Training                     9.947                     9.0
of which:  Primary                     (1.500) or 15.1%
School Canteens             (0.400) or  4.0%c
Middle                      (2.454) or 24.7%
Secondary                   (0.937) or  9.4%
Higher                      (2.260) or 22.7%
Vocational & Technic,l    (2.166) or 21.8%
Others                     (0.230) or  2.3%
Social                                    14.610                    13.3
Admir.is ,-ration                          1.399                     1.3
Pre-Investment and Miscellaneous           2.520                     2.3
TOTAL             110.217                  100.0
Source: II Plan Quadriennal 1974 - 1977



ANME 9
Page 4 of 4
iv.  Projection of Public Expenditures on Education 1974 - 1985
Projected Public
Average Annual         Recurrent Expenditure
New Student                                Investments Required       on Education in 1985
Places Required        Average Annual            (A.D. million;            (A.D. million;2
1974 - 1985         Need 1974 - 1985           1974 prices)               1975 prices)-1
1. Primary                        1,387,000               126,100                   378.3                     2,276
2. Middle                         1,1(0,000               100,000                   900.0                     2,634
3. Secondary General                 303,000               27,500                   302.5                       968
4. Technicums  and Vocational         90,000 1              8,200                   164.0                       323
5. Primary and Middle
Teacher Training                 13,000                1,200                    15.6                       269
6. Post-Secondary (all types)         97,000                8,800                   352.0                     1,908
TOTAL                 2,990,000              271,800                  2,112.4                     8,378
or 7.4% of GDP3
Source: Staff Estimates
/ Allows for 30,000 conversions
/ Assuming that the goverment will succeed in limiting the growth of unit recurrent costs to about 3% p.a.
/ Assuming an average annual growth rnte of GDP of 8% p.a. in real terms between 1974 and 1985.



a



INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICITY AND ELECTRONICS
Organization Chart
Mrnietre ol Industry & Eoargy
| S,-e n. C -m -             -  -  - p ~~ - - - - - -  -               -~ -  -      ---                  Ad&,,,V Ctwnil
Direclor Gen-ral
|   TttchingS"ff    |--i        DtvAtv srecAff             1                                                                                                                            Adf   Non;TAfihing
Fte:ltv           I                Fwulty.                      r     F-culV           l     
:= - Enitig           l         1 Tenco                          1                                        i7ne                  I 1 Suet 
Engi.tn  |rDea                             De         I     rcr                                              De1
Tehnki    r.n    AA &r
Sld-e                              Soudio                    .                                               Sden
let  So no.                       Sordente~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"n.lT.                                                                         VS.i
S eretrsa                              ertrn                           SOcrer-                                 Secretariat          [           Registry                         Pertsennd al                       Treeastry                         Se 5rvices
DEPARTMENTS OF                    DEPARTMENTS OF                   DEPARTMENTS OF
nl   El-ctricitV     l      4    Electricitv y                4    Matherrw                                  Stud7nt. e r                     Admissions                         CSecurit                           Cashiers                           Restaurant
El.,H61v       ..Ih-li.                                ~~~~~~~Acf,ties
- Elctu'c                         L                                       AMa7u  ;ttt7  rrl                Files                                 Socil Services                    Wege                             Boarding
c..".1 Sv,-                ronleSOCal ciece
CcmrnuficatiOos                    St Eeotronics                                                              S ScaSiecn l i tudnizt:os       Orsaoreet.an                         Realidth Room                       Purchasesj    Community
| Co7nvrrt Systeot ss                ComnsonicatOens                                                            Strua9ntleoss                                                                                          Accountins g                    Meinrenacce
C- torign
1  ComFUters   l                                                                          _                                 _                                                         1  Personnes~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prece
Apolied                                                                   Rtsewrh                           Conteer                              LterarVy                         UpC-ditn
Soieness                                                                  CsterL                            Canter                                                                Couse
Aerd Back.152658






ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
PRE-INVESTMENT STUDY ON THE
DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING CENTERS
1.   Purpose of Study
1.0       The basic objectives of the Study would be to provide the basis
for an action program to create a national network of training facilities
and resources satisfying the needs of the rapidly developing industrial and
construction sectors for skilled and semi-skilled manpower.
This network would include existing facilities operated by various
ministries and/or by industries. The Study would consider the need and
plans for additional training resources and, in particular, their location,
and their nature in each instance, e.g. institutions within a specific in-
dustry, or combination of institution and industry. Where industrial plants
are involved, the Study would, in terms of the industry or plant or program,
advise on the extent and form of systematic on-the-job training and of sep-
arate training facilities within the industrial plant.
1.1       The Study would therefore examine the following questions:
(i) The needs of each "productive" ministry for manpower
of Levels 3 and 4, to the extent possible in terms
of numbers, type and level of training considered
desirable, over the next 5 to 10 years;
(ii) This could be cross-checked or complemaented by the
estimated needs (a) of specific major industrial enter-
prises already in operation, (b) of new industries or
specific projects to be implemented in the course of the
1974-1977, and subsequent plan, and (c) of general develop-
mental objectives;
(iii) Existing stocks of manpower presently at this level, and
consider (a) likely wastage rates, (b) quality, upgrading
or refresher training requirements, (c) conditions or terms
of service insofar as these affect availability of renewed
supply, (d) employers' views on the quality and attitudes
of the present stock;
(iv) The extent, form, nature, capability and potential of the
present sources of supply -- the actual resources, locations,
types of courses or training, responsible authority;
(v) Evaluation of (iii), (iv), that is current patterns and pro-
visions of training programs, in terms of (i) and (ii), that
is, the projected needs;



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
(vi) Formulation of proposals for an integrated plan of action
to assure that facilities, resources and programs are
developed to reconcile outputs with needs (objectives,
development strategy, organization, administration, crite-
ria for decision-making as to type of training programs);
(vii) Elaboration of detailed requirements of training centers
or of industry-centered programs or of training center
cum-supervised on-the-job training that will be needed
for the expected industrial developments; location of
centers, capacity, courses to be offered, curricula orien-
tations by specialization, projected enrollment by special-
ization, hence capacity and output targets, sources of in-
take, staff supply and development plans, norms and standards
for basic workshop and other learning spaces and for basic
equipment. In those cases were specific recommendations
cannot be made, the criteria for decision making would be
spelled out;
(viii) A realistic time-table for implementation of the development
plan;
(ix) The issues to be resolved, and recommendations on their solu-
tion, to establish acceptable and workable mechanisms to
assure the closest cooperation with the employers; and
(x) Estimate of investment costs (including remodelling or con-
version of existing institutions) and operational costs over
a specified development period.
2.   Work Methodology
2.0       The Study would be carried out by a national Task Force assisted
by an expatriate consultant team. The Task Force would comprise representa-
tives of the Ministries of IndustTy, Labor, Primary and Secondary Education,
and Planning. The technical assistance team would include;
(a)  A coordinator/vocational training planner            -  6 months;
(b) Two vocational training curriculum development
specialists                                    -  3 months each;
(c)  One manpower economist                               -  6 months;
(d)  Two facilities planners                              -  3 months each;
(e)  Two vocational training equipment specialists        -  3 months each.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 3 of 3
The ministries concerned would incorporate into the Task Force as
and when required their own specialists for curriculum development, workshop
design and layout and equipment to be assisted by the specialists of the
technical assistance team.
2.1       The planner and the manpower economist specialists should be on
post one month before the remainder of the team.
(a) to assist in formulating guidelines for the study;
(b)  to assist the ministries in determining the composition
of the Task Force,lformulating its terms of reference and
setting up the Task Force;
(c) creating and initiating with the Task Force the action
program for the field activities.
2.2       The remaining specialists would assist the Task Force in the carry-
ing out and the analysis of the field survey findings and in the subsequent
elaboration of the action proposals.
The planner, the manpower economist and a facilities' planner would
remain to assist in drawing up the detailed draft development plan, recommend-
ations and the educational and architectural briefs.



ALGERIA II
Unit Capital Costs and Areas
Similar Bank or
Cost per Student                                 IDA Financed
.  .  (in US $)                   Gross      Projecte in
Building                                                             Area      EMENA Region
Cost/rn2                                                              per    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Gross Area                 Site                                      Student  Area per Student
Type of Facilities            US $      Building  Development Furniture  Equipment  Total         m2           m_
1. Academic & Communal
Facilities
Institute of Electric-
ity & Electronics at
Tlemcen                   456          4,634        774          456       4,000    9,864      10.0      7.4 - 16.7
2. Boarding Facilities
Institute of Electric-
ity & Electronics at
Tlemcen                   391         4,303         732          430        5_ 5,h65           11,0          - 12.0
3. Total (1 + 2)                            8,937      i,5o6          886       4,000   l5,329      21.0
aw



ALGERIA II
Projects Costs by Type of 2xpenditure
A.D. Millions             -       US $ Millions
Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total         Percent of Total
Physical Facilities:
1.1  Civil works                 66.07     54.05    120.12        17.23     14.10     31.33              40.2
1.2 Furniture                     3.06      7.14     10.20         0.80      1.86      2.66               3.4
1.3  Squipment                    2.30     43.70     46.oo         o.60     11.4.0    12.00              15.4
Subtotal                 71.43    104.89    176.32        18.63     27.36     45.99              59.0
Services:
2.1  Professional Services        3.60      8.41     12.01         0.94      2.19       3.13              4.0
2.2  Technical Assistance         2.95     11.73     14.68         0.77      3.06       3.83              4.9
Subtotal                  6.55     20.14     26.69         1.71      5.25       6.96              8.9
Base Line Cost           77.98    125.03    203.01        20.34      32.61     52.95             67.9
Contingencies:
(Physical and price increase)  40o96     55.04     96.00        10.68     14.36      25.04             32.1
Total Project Cost      118.94    180.07    299.01        31.02      46.97     77.99            100.0



ALGERIA Il
Contingency Allowances
Professional        Technical
Civil Works        Furniture           Equipment           Services          Assistance           Subtotal            Total
Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign    A.D.              US$
Percentage of local and foreign       557%      45%       30%      70%        5%       95%       30%       70%      20%       80%       38%      62%
Baseline cost
(as of February 1976)
Millions A.D.                     66.07    54.05       3.06    7.14       2.30    43.70       3.60     8.41      2.95    11.73    77.98   125.03   203.01
Millions US$                      17.23    14.10       0.80    1.86       0.60    11.40       0.94     2.19      0.77      3.06    20.34    32.61                 52.95
Unforeseen physical increases
%                                   10%       10%       10%      10%       10%       10%        5%       5%        5%        5%       39%      61%    9.3%
Millions A.D.                      6.61      5.40      0.31    0.71       0.23      4.37      0.18     0.42      0.15      0.58      7.48    11.48    18.96
Millions US$                       1.72      1.41      0.08    0.19       0.06      1.14      0.05     0.11      0.04      0.15      1.95     3.00                 4.95
Subtotal
Millions A.D.                72.68    59.45      3.37    7.85        2.53    48.07/    3.78       8.83      3.10    12.31    85.46   136.51   221.97
Millions US$                 18.95    15.51      0.88    2.05        0.66    12.54      0.99      2.30      0.81      3.21    22.29    35.61                57.90
Price increases
%                                   42%       42%       26%     26%        26%       26%       25%       25%      t5%       15%                          38%
Millions A.D.                     30.53    24.97       0.88    2.04       0.66    12.50       0.95     2.21      0.46      1.84    33.48    43.56    77.04
Millions US$                       7.96      6.51      0.23    0.53       0.17      3.26      0.25     0.58      0.12      0.48      8,73    11.36    _-_         20.09
Total contingencies
Millions A.D.                     37.14    30.37       1.19    2.75       0.89    16.87       1.13      2.63     0.61      2.42    40.96    55.04    96.00
Millions US$                       9.68      7.92      0.31    0.72       0.23      4,40      0.30      0.69     0.16      0.63    10.68    14.36       _         25.04
Total project cost
(including contingencies)
Millions A.D.                    103.21    84.42       4.25    9.89       3.19    60.57       4.73    11.04      3.56    14.15   118.94   180.07   299.01
Millions US$                      26.91    22.02       1.11    2.58       0.83    15.80       1.24      2.88     0.93      3.69    31.02    46.97                 77.99
Price escalation computed on the basis of following increases:
- civil works                12%    per year
- furniture and equipment   7.5%  per year
- professional services    25%    for total period of project implementation
- technical assistance       15%    for total period of project implementation                                                                                               -
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



ANNEX 15
ALGERIA II
Financial Plan
(A.D. and US$ millions)
Government             IBRD               Total
A.D.    US $      A.D.      US $      A.D.      US$
Physical Facilities
1.1 Civil Works:
Local                      96.60    25.19         --        --    96.60    25.19
Foreign                       -- p             79.02    20.61    79.02    20.61
Subtotal        96.60    25.19    79.02    20.61   175.62    45.80
1.2 Furniture:
Local                       3.94      1.03        --        --      3.94      1.03
Foreign                        --       --      9.18      2.39      9.18      2.39
Subtotal         3.94      1.03      9.18      2.39    13.12       3.42
1.3 Equipment:
Local                       2.96      0.77        --        --      2.96      0.77
Foreign                      _          --    56.20    14.66    56.20    14.66
Subtotal         2.96      0.77    56.20    14.66    59.16    15.43
Services
2.1 Professional Services:
Local                       4.55      1.19        --        --      4.55      1.19
Foreign                       --        --    10.62       2.77    10.62       2.77
Subtotal         4.55      1.19    10.62       2.77    15.17       3.96
2.2 Technical Assistance:
Local                       3.41      0.89        --        --      3.41      0.89
Foreign                       --               13.57      3.54    13.57       3.54
Subtotal         3.41      0.89    13.57       3.54    16.98       4.43
Baseline Cost
(Including price increase
contingencies)
Local                     111.46    29.07         --        --   111.46    29.07
Foreign                        --       --   168.59    43.97   168.59    43.97
Subtotal       111.46    29.07   168.59    43.97   280.05    73.04
Physical Contingencies
Local                       7.48      1.95        --        --      7.48      1.95
Foreign                        --       --    11.48       3.00    11.48       3.00
Subtotal         7.48      1.95    11.48       3.00    18.96       4.95
Total Project Cost
Local                     118.94    31.02          --       --   118.94    31.02
Foreign                       --        --   180.07    46.97   180.07    46.97
TOTAL          118.94    31.02   180.07    46.97   299.01    77.99



09                  - .9      09              -   09  99           0999    09909>0999'
09 09>909                                    -.                   - '0 9  999   09099909999
'9 9999                                 9-9 >9-  '1 I' 909 >9. 99999>9.990009999  -
9  9 99. 09909999.0999-909099.9.09.9  990
9'     909  90 -       0909     90 -       9  9  9009 -       999090909
99 99    9 9 99 99 "09  >9999
09099 999o,o,9  900999009  0999909   9
0990       999                                              I                  I                              -    -    -
9    9    99099                           9    909  9'    90    9  9    9009  9'   99    9  9    9    9  9'   9  -  -   9
99'   09 99.99                  -          9   9         -    9  099          I    9     09      9'   9  99  099' 9     9       9'
909009099909                                  9          90909999' 999  009999909999    9
99    09990909                                '09   9   90 09090909    9909099                 9       09   9   00 90
0909       9  99                               '   '9   "        09     9  0'         9'      9           90      9    9  09    9
99       99909                                9      9   9    9   9      9    90   9   9       9                9'   9    9    9  09
09 0909   990  9                     909                   -          L                           9   9         9       09
99.9.99.                                                       90909990             99099              90       9   0909   90
9                 99    9   9    --    9.      9           9       09    9  9    09
909       '9>                                  -   00  0'                  -                             09  9. 9 09 09        9
09     09 9  9               09   9  9   9    09       9          -
9999                                           9          -                                           9.999            90
9999                                  '9      90          9        9                                  9     .9
99   90 9                             00                  09
9 0990                                09  09  09099  09 09  09  9099   09 9  9   09         9  >09  9.  9 09
90  9   .9  09 .9 099   9       09 .9 09 9   909090999099909
09   9  90999995 5 9'e99999<< 9  999999
9                   9   9     9' 909090909  09, 09 909  09  0909       9090909            9'>,.  9- 09 09
9          9        9                          -      -9'  09  09909      09   09  90        099   09    09    9
9          9        9   9        99  '9  99  09    99  09  99>                    9          099999
09         9        09  9        '9909909  9-    99   9  999               90 09  09         99   9  9 9
9          09      '9  09          9           9      990990909            09 09  09         9099909
9-                 09099    99    99                  99                 9  99
09    9     09   0909     9-  9-  09          9          09
99'  9  0909-0      99'  9  0909        09 09   9            .9         9
9            9         09        .0        09
9.                                9909909                     9                       9
'9.9  09  99         09    09  09       09
099   9.  09 9.     09 9  9.  09  9.     09  09  9'          9.         9.
0-'          99    09    99       9009  9  909
09 09  90  099      090990990            9  9   9            9          9
0999099             0909  9  0909       90 90   9            09        09
9.9   9  99         99   9  99           9  9   9                       9
099090909           09909090             9  9   09           9         09
99       09         9  9     9           09    09
9                   .9                   9  '9
-. )90
q                                                *0
50999951999
I                                      olgoosoXore
90-0                                                              0                                               I
9::-.   -                                                     I
r099,"::-
I...           .         I
K                                                    *                              .
I                                         *                                         9             9
*                                     6
*                                     U
*                                     U
*                                             U
*                                                                                 9         [9
*
0                                            '..'."" I                               i                                               F
U
U
U
U
U
099'                                                                                     U                                 -.9-
U
U
U
99                                                                                        U
-0909                                                                                      U
-               .                                                         -.
*                                         U
I                                         U
--          --                i                                          U                                   9.9
U
0                                           *                                          3
*1'
I.- 09



AdINEX 1
ALGERIA - Second Education Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in U.S. $ Million)
Accumulated         Undisbursed
Disbursement      Disbursements          Balance
Semester*         Amount    %       Amount    _        Amount      %
First Year
1            0.00    0.0        0.00     0.0      47.00    100.0
2             2.23    4.7       2.23     4.7      44.77      95.3
Second Year
3             2.06    4.4       4.29     9.1      42.71      90.9
4             2.55    5.4       6.84    14.5      40.16      85.5
Third Year
5             3.33    7.1      10.17    21.6      36.83      78.4
6            5.03   10.7       15.20    32.3      31.80      67.7
Fourth Year
7            4.56    9.7       19.76    42.0      27.24      58.0
8             7.42   15.8      27.18    57.8      19.82      42.2
Fifth Year
9             8.09   17.2      35.27    75.0      11.73      25.0
10             8.23   17.5      43.50    92.5       3.50       7.5
Sixth Year
11             1.41    3.0      44.91    95.5       2.09       4.5
12             2.09    4.5      47.00   100.0       0.00       0.0
*Beginning from date of signature






EIA                        - m
COE o          NAME OF INSTITUTION                        LOCATIONNSTANTI
.:kA_ _       h
C)
C-                                                                                                   A~ ~                                              td                            XP:na                                                         ee 
0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                  ~       ~       ~~~~~~~~~~  .. dh                                                                                                                FIRST  EDCTO              PROJE>gT                        D ''\2 ~ _    
f  Meche a   .-  El Eorodh     ._ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0 ~~CODE No                                              NAME OFISNSTITUTION                        LOCATION
LIQUIFIED NATURAL GASTuE                 ORAN
PLASTI CS                                SETIF
INSTITUTE OF MINING & METALURGY
SUPLEMENTARIY EOIUIPMIENTI            ANNABA
INSTITUSTE GE LIGHT INDUSTRY
A L G  E R I A                                                                                                      ITECHNICAL ASSISTANCE)                 BOUMERDES
INSTITUTE OF AGRICULTURE TECHNOLOGY
SECOND  EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                                WORKSHOPS EQUPMENT & FURNITURE  MOSTAGANEM
(   {_ a n Se1rs   *-                                                     |                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIELD UNITS (CONSTRUCT ON, EQUIPMENT
1 /                 TI^ODE No       NAME OF INSTITUTION        LOCATION    Gh-,do-,                                                                                      & FURNITUREI
-   y     10   ji-    NIT TUTF oF EECTCRICIT  TLEMCEN                                                                                            19          "DAIRA" OF  ORAN
_____S__ _-  -            ----                                                   AND ELCTROT C, T                                                                                                                   191          DAIRA" OF  AIN TEMOUCHENT
*19 E    LB A A  01 4) DAIRA OF  TLEMCEN
"91    DAIRA UP  SIDI-BEL.ABRES
o             IN \  -             E                                 IC NIAPOF ROADS                                                                                                                  4t           DAIRA'OE  SAIAD
14)          -DAIRA OF  ELASNAM
|-  -AUR)TANIA  LE -TEA1                                                                                                                  141           DAIRA OF  EAIN DEFLA        D
A                                PIlOTS M1A L |    ; N ) G E R   j C H A D                    [>e Lollrloncs shown sn rhls r*|szp dzo                               41         "DAIRA" OP   ANNABATR
) A   GERA  LIBYAm IA                          P I'IEl                                                                                                                           41          "DAIRA' OF  BLIDA
JlboEol0o10   0   I   U  SD               1)0                                                    ~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41  -DAIRA' OF  BORDJ MENAIEL
r                                                                                                                                       KILOMETERS                                                                   I4 DA"A OF  TIZI OUZOU
-   ITFRIIATIOTAL ESI)GJARI-5                                                                                                        141     ~     DAIRA'O 0    EJAIA>
14)          DAIRA" OF  SETIF              C.
MAURITANIA                                                                                                                                                                                                           141          "DAIIlA" O    ELEULMA        C
IN TOHOO 000 0000                              141          ~~~~~~~~~~      ~~~~~DAIRA OP  BATNA 
MA Il      N I GER       C H AD                                                                                                                                                                       14           "DAIRAOF   ANNABA            -
(                                                                                                                                     Al~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4DAIRA" OF SKIKDA
s   ~ ~ ~ ~~  1                                                                  0,001  ROOlIl I       N                                              41           DABRAOF   GUELMA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4"DtR" F    UEM



