Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project            Aide Memoire August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
AIDE MEMOIRE
9th Implementation Support Mission for
The Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project (IDA 42010; TF90085)
August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
INTRODUCTION: A joint World Bank/Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) review and
implementation support mission of the Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project (RCBP) took place from August 27'h to
September 30, 2011.1 The mission conducted field visits in Benishangul-Gumuz, Oromiya and Amhara Regions, Agarfa
and Ardaita Agriculture Technical and Vocational Education and Training (ATVET) Colleges, and the Metema Livestock
Quarantine Station construction site. The Mission also held a one day meeting with implementing agencies and Regional
project coordinators and undertook intensive consultations with the Federal Project Management Unit (PMU). A wrap up
meeting was held with Ato Wondirad Mandefro, State Minister, Ministry of Agriculture (MoA), and Dr. Solomon Assefa,
Director General, Ethiopian Institute of Agricultural Research (EIAR). The Mission would like to thank Government of
Ethiopia (GoE) counterparts for the cooperation in planning and organizing the Mission and fruitful discussions. This
Aide-Memoire summarizes the Mission's findings and agreements reached, which are subject to endorsement by the Bank
management.
CONTEXT: The (formally revised) development objective of the Project (PDO) is to assist the EthiOpian Government to
strengthen agricultural services and systems and make them more responsive to cliefnts' needs. The PDO is to be achieved
by (a) strengthening and reorienting agricultural technical and vocational trainingby making ATVET colleges more
responsive to the changing needs, (b) improving the effectiveness of the agricultural extension service, (c) enhancing the
capacity of research institutions to generate appropriate agricultural technologies' and, (d) strengthening agricultural
markets through the efficient functioning of a commodity exchange and improvements in sanitary and phyto-sanitary
standards to enhance export of livestock.
RCBP is only about a month away from its closing date. Implementation has been proceeding moderately well, but some
key activities are still quite far from completion - mostly due to delays in procurement. The GoE has requested the World
Bank for an extension of the closing date. The Mission therefore reviewed the RCBP Annual Plan to determine the
timeframe required to finalize planned activities. A recurring issue since the mid-term review of the Project has been that
the available budget remains insufficient to allow planned activities to be implemented in full. This issue was discussed at
the last Federal Steering Committee Meeting of the RCBP and it was agreed that the MoA would request the GoE for a
supplementary budget appropriation to ensure that activities started by the Project can be properly completed. Therefore,
in addition to reviewing implementation performance, the Mision worked very closely with the PMU to review
utilization of the RCBP budget, reallocate IDA and CIDA finding to priority activities and develop a request for funding
from the GoE.
KEY FINDINGS: There is continued progress in iplementation (although with some slowing down) -the Mission's
assessment of implementation progress under each component is summarized below (see Annex 5 for further details).
There have also been improvements in financial management, procurement procedures and M&E arrangements.
Component I Support to ATVETs: Achievements under this component include development of 53 occupational
standards related to the ATVET National Strategic Plan (excluding OS for agri-business even though this is a key area of
focus for the ATVET strategy), training of two instructors from each ATVET College on teacher training and learning
materials (TTLM) and curriculum development, and the development of eight model curricula related to the new
occupational standards. Curriculum and TTLM development is currently underway in all colleges and the project has
successfully developed curricula in two additional areas: gender equity and HIV/AIDS control which are being applied in
one college each. Developed curricula and TTLM will be reviewed according to the new occupational standards and
ATVET strategy with support from Jimma University (JUCAVM) that is being contracted by the Project This review
' The team included Laketch Mikael, Team Leader (AFTAR), Stefan Paquette, Co-Team Leader (CIDA), Mary Breen (CIDA) focusing on Comp. 1,
support to ATVETs, Jonathan Cook (FAO/CP) focusing on Comp. 2 and 4 support to Extension and ICT, Ashok Seth and Teklu Tesfaye, (AFTAR)
focusing on Comp. 3, support to the National Agricultural Research System, and Esayas Nigatu, (AFTAR) focusing on Comp. 5, Support to Market
Institutions. Ingrid Mollard, Consultant (AFTAR), Asferachew Abate, Environment Specialist (AFTEN), Desta Solomon and Yasmin Tayyab Social
Specialists (AFTCS), Meron Techane, Financial Specialist (AFTFM), Shimelis Woldehawariat, Procurement Specialist (AFTPC), assessed
arrangements for monitoring and evaluation, compliance with safeguard policies, financial management and procurement respectively. Rahel Lulu,
program assistant (AFCE3) provided logistics support.
1 Pag e


﻿Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project             Aide Memoire August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
plays an important role in the implementation of the ATVET National Strategic Plan. However, RCBP support to the
process, through JUCAVM, has been greatly delayed and is likely not to be relevant for the current academic year.
Dissemination activities on the ATVET strategy including a national workshop to orient major stakeholders on the
strategy and OS, printing and distribution related documents, etc. will be carried out within the next two months.
RCBP supports the implementation of the ATVET National Strategic Plan within two federal ATVET Colleges: Ardaita
and Agarfa, through Development Innovation Grants. This has however been progressing slowly.
Component 2: Strengthening Agricultural Extension Services: As the project closing date approaches, many although not
all activities are close to completion. Some activities have been fully accomplished. Capacity-building of farming training
centers (FTCs) including short-term training of development agents (DAs) and community exposure visits at FTCs are
now largely complete. Management committees for FTCs are also established and FTCs visited in the Oromiya and
Amhara Regions appear to be self-sustaining. Similarly, gender activities such as GE training for DAs, are complete or
nearly so. Some activities have been delayed but are expected to be finalized by the end of December 2011. These
include training of FTC management committee members and short-term training for woreda staff that backstop DAs. The
Project has continued to establish new farmer innovation groups (FTFs) and to strengthen farmer research extension
groups (FREGs) but this too is behind schedule. Long-term training continues as agreed under the Project's Annual Plan.
There is concern over a high drop-out rate. Also, as will be discussed further below, another concern relates to
arrangements to ensure continued support to students who will not complete training within the timefraime of RCBP.
Weaknesses in implementation observed during the last mission have yet to be addressed: (a) Agriculture and Rural
Development Partners Linkage Advisory Council (ARDPLAC) meetings have continued to be postponed due to other
priorities; (b) establishment of FIF groups is still often with insufficient regard for the guidelines, particularly the gender
balance;2 (c) the study of DA responsibilities and effectiveness, ARDPLAC performance and cost/benefit analysis of
FREGs although under contracting with Haramaya University, is not yet started; and, (d) the shift in emphasis towards
documentation of best practices and group strengthening activities for FREGs has not been realized - support to FREGs
has largely continued without an exit strategy. The MoA has agreed that these issues will receive particular attention in
the coming months.
Component 3 Enhancing Institutional Capacity of the Agricultural Research System: Most activities under the
Agricultural Research component - both in terms of promoting institutional innovations within the National/Ethiopia
Agricultural Research System (EARS); and, reinforcing capacity for agricultural research are at advanced stages of
completion. Regarding support to institutional innovations, the Mission has observed that, (a) the National Agricultural
Research Coordination Council (NARCC) and its Secretariat are operational but full consensus on proposed
organizational and management arrangements and operational modalities for EARS is yet to be reached by key
stakeholders. (b) Good progress has been made in validation/adaption of technologies acquired from overseas under
RCBP's technology short-cut window, e.g. high value fruit tree varieties for different agro-ecologies, improved genetic
stock of poultry, and active microorganism for ditTereit uses. To exploit the full potential of this approach, EIAR needs to
develop a strategy for their multiplication and distribution with sustainable sources of funding and a clearly defined role
for the private sector. (c) Activities related to gender mainstreaming, including action research are on track. (d) A
competitive research grants program is underway. Independent reviews of 30 out of 37 on-going National Agricultural
Research Fund (NARF) financed sub-projects at the end of the first year of implementation found 70% of the sub-projects
to be either highly satisfactory or satisfactory with the remaining 30% as moderately satisfactory. Similar reviews are
planned for the rest of NARF and all Regional Agricultural Research Fund (RARF) financed sub-projects. Nevertheless,
many N/RARF sub-projects will not be finished before the RCBP completion. The Mission has agreed on a timeframe for
developing and implementing a strategy for institutionalizing the N/RARF supported competitive grants program as part
of the EIAR/EARS regular work program with secure sources of funding.
Activities related to capacity building of the research system have largely been completed although there have been
budget overruns due to increased costs on imported goods3 . These overruns are a cause for concern for the overall
management of the Project EJAR is also taking forward, on a larger scale, the support provided to Agricultural Research
Centers in the emerging regions, to help them scale-up, using a multi-stakeholder participatory approach, the introduction
2 The Mission also found that in Amhara, all FIF groups have been established in non-project woredas and therefore do not benefit from
complementary activities.
The cost of imported goods has escalated as a result of currency devaluation and associated duty payments.
2 P ag


﻿Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project           Aide Memoire August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
of technologies aimed at improving productivity and diversification towards new cash/food crops. Progress in completing
irrigation facilities at selected research stations is behind schedule and requires further attention. Long term training of
research scientists at PhD and Masters levels continues as planned. As in the case of extension, high attrition rates and
lack of clarity on arrangements to ensure continued support to students who will not complete training within the RCBP
timeframe is a matter for concern.
Component 4 Improving Information Communication Systems (ICS): The Mission found that in most RCBP woredas,
local area networks (LANs) linking different departments of the Offices of Agriculture have been successfully set up but
that connectivity with the internet (and through the internet, linkage with Regions Bureaus of Agriculture and the Federal
MoA as well as to global networks) has not been achieved as the WoredaNet in most places is not up and running and the
dial-up system is over-subscribed. Nevertheless, the Mission understands that, depending on the IT infrastructure
available within each woreda, there are alternative options available for establishing connectivity. The PMU and Regional
RCBP focal persons are exploring the different options for connectivity. The Mission notes that to ensure connection as
soon as possible there is a need for: (a) each woreda to consult with their Ethiopian Telecom branch office to ascertain the
most appropriate means of connection to the internet (WoredaNet link, CDMA modem, wireless internet modem, dialup
connection or other) and to urgently inform their regional office of their preferred option together with a commitment to
allocate an associated monthly recurrent budget; (b) the Federal PMU to consult with Ethiopia Telecom head office to
facilitate the process; and, (c ) once options are identified, Regions need to move quickly to establish connections, provide
associated trainings and thereby complete implementation on this component.
Component 5: Strengthening Agricultural Market Institutions: As indicated in the last mission, under the sub-component
in support of the Ethiopia Commodity Exchange (ECX). it is expected that RCBP support towars providing adequate
information technology solutions for more effective operation of the ECX will be partial and that the Exchange itself will
raise the necessary resources to complete the enVisaged investments. Introduction of a system for transmission of price
information through SMS and IVR has been completed and installation of price tickers in major commodity markets is
progressing well. However, due to delays in procurement, planned installation of IT infrastructure at the Exchange cannot
be fully completed before June, 2012 -including delivery, installation, testing and having the supplier redress any issues.
Under the Sanitary and Phyto-sanitary sub-comrponent, the Project has performed well on its support to the ecto-parasite
control program which is now completed. The Project also planned to support the construction and equipping of two
livestock quarantine stations; one at Metema and the other at Humerm to facilitate the trade in livestock. Work on both
stations has been delayed significantly. Regarding construction of the station at Metema, although there had been some
earlier progress on this construction, all civil works were stopped pending the development of an abbreviated resettlement
action plan (ARAP) to compensate 12 households displaced by the initiative. The Mission finds that there is sufficient
progress on the development and implementation of the ARAP to be confident that construction will resume soon and can
be finalized around March, 2012. The Mission notes that, while in the last mission it was observed that works beyond the
current civil works contract were necessary to make the station fully functional (some structures indicated in the design
are missing from the bill of quantities, water and electricity supply have been omitted from the design) no practical
measures have been taken to fulfill these remaining requirements. The Mission believes that, with due attention, water
and electricity supply can be provided by the time the current construction is finalized. However, no procurement has
been initiated for a new civil works contract to add necessary structures that are missing from the current civil works
contract. The Mission believes that procurement and delivery of this second phase construction will take up to June 30,
2012. Regarding the construction of the Humera Livestock Quarantine Station, the Mission has learnt that procurement of
the civil works contract has been interrupted as the Government has decided to revoke the supervision consultancy
contract. The Mission feels that while construction on the Humera Livestock Quarantine Station can be initiated under
RCBP, it can no longer be completed under the Project-
Project Management. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The Mission observed weaknesses in the follow-up of RCBP
implementation including its financial management and procurement (as is discussed further below) and observed that
actions to improve implementation agreed to last mission were only partially carried out (see Annex 2). Generally, there
appears to be a slowing down of implementation, and very few project activities will be completed by October 31, 2011
which is the current closing date of the project. The Mission re-iterates that even with the proposed extension date of the
Project, there is no room for slippage and the project staff and - more importantly, senior management of implementing
agencies (IA) need to give greater attention to ensuring timely completion of project activities and quick accounting of
expenditures. The last mission noted that as the Project approaches its closing date, greater effort needs to be made to
31P ag


﻿Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project              Aide Memoire August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
retaining Project staff. Yet there is still no progress made to revisit remuneration packages of Regional project staff. The
Project continues to suffer from high turn-over in the PMUs at all levels! Staff turn-over particularly at the end of a
project is inevitable; the PMU and IAs should ensure that short term arrangements (assignment of government staff,
recruitment of short term TA, etc.) are made to cover any gaps.
Progress in terms of strengthening M&E arrangements has been noteworthy. The quality and timeliness of regular
reporting on activity performance for research and extension has significantly improved (financial reporting and updates
on the procurement plan remain weak) and the results framework is updated following World Bank requirements. The
M&E officer has been very pro-active to ensure greater communication and information flow with implementing
agencies. The Mission does, however, note the slow progress in contracting for the studies to evaluate project impact and
in initiating a consultancy to document lessons learnt (an activity that CIDA has been considering to undertake). Clearly,
the assessment of the Project's impact will not be carried out before the current closing date of the Project. This will now
only be possible with an extension of the closing date. Even so, the project cannot afford to encounter further delays to
evaluate its impact as the findings of these studies will need to inform implementation completion reports that have a
fixed timeline for delivery.
Completion of Project activities: The Mission finds that although implementation is delayed, most RCBP activities are
close to completion. With a few exceptions, the Project's remaining activities can be done by end of December, 2011. The
exceptions are: (a) long term training; (b) research projects started through the N/RARF competitive grants program; (c)
construction of the Metema and Humera Livestock Quarantine Stations: (d) procurement and installation of IT
infrastructure equipment to support the ECX; (e) implementation of the ATVET development innovation grants; and (e)
M&E activities such as documentation of lessons learnt and evaluation of project impact. As has been discussed above,
the Mission estimates that procurement and installation of IT infrastructure for the ECX and full construction of the
Metema Livestock Quarantine Station will only be completed in June, 20125 and proposes that the closing date for RCBP
Credit No. 42010 and Trust Fund No. 90084 be extended from October 31, 2011 until June 30, 2012. Annex 4 provides a
timeline for completion of each remaining activity under the various components of the Project.
Some key activities will continue beyond the RCBP timeframe:
*   To support much needed human resource capacity building, RCBP supported 806 professionals in various long term
training programs. Of these students, 279 will have completed their studies by October, 2011 and a further 406 will
have done so, by March, 2012. 121 students will finish their studies at a later dates extending up to September 2013.
Support to late entrants was provided with the understanding that arrangements outside of the Project would be made
to cover the costs of long term training after October, 2011 and the RCBP Steering Committee agreed that MoA
would request an allocation from MoFED to this effect. The Mission finds, however, that this has not been
forthcoming. It therefore recommends that, if the Project closing date is extended, RCBP funds be reallocated to
cover the tuition, research, subsistence, and other costs of the 406 students that are expected to finalize their studies by
March 2012. The Mission does not propose to extend the Project up to September, 2013 but requests the GoE to
commit the necessary funding, about 5.4 million ETB, to ensure that the remaining students are able to complete their
studies.
*   While RCBP has successfully established a competitive grants program (with its National and Regional Agricultural
Research Funds N/RARFs) to support broad based, innovative research projects, some of the awarded research
projects will only be completed outside of the project timeframe. This is to be expected as the competitive grants
program should to be sustained beyond RCBP. However, a strategy for mobilizing resources from various private and
public stakeholders for the competitive grants program has not been put in place. Since the institutionalization of the
competitive grants program has been delayed, there are currently no arrangements for funding of the ongoing NARF
and RARF research projects after October, 2011. The Mission recommends that RCBP funds be reallocated also to
provide funding for N/RARF research projects until a more broadly funded competitive grants program can be set up.
The position of Extension Specialist is filled, but the Research Coordinator, NARF/RARF manager and one accountant in EIAR have left since the
last mission. The Research Coordinator was replaced - but only in mid September, 2011. There has also been tum over at the regional level.
Given that the IT infrastructure contract for the ECX has been delayed, its delivery and installation is expected in April, 2012. Similarly, the
Mission finds that implementation of the ATVET development innovation grants will likely take up to April, 2012 to be completed. Studies related
to the evaluation of the Project's impact are still under contracting and are therefore unlikely to be finalized before March, 2012. If the
government's ICR is to include findings from these studies, it will need to be carried out in April. Finally, even though the Mission expects
construction on the Metema Livestock Quarantine Station to resume in the next few weeks, the delay caused by the interruption of civil works
activities from April to October, 2011 will likely extend the completion date of the first phase construction up to March, 2012.
4 P' age


﻿Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project           Aide Memoire August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
The Mission proposes that MoA request seed funding of 1.5 million ETB from the MoFED so that a competitive
grants program with multiple sources of funding, including from government, is established.
*   It is noted above that RCBP cannot complete the construction of the Humera Livestock Quarantine Station. Yet, to
achieve its objectives in terms of supporting quality livestock exports on the northwestern trade route, it is necessary
not only to make the Metema Livestock Quarantine Station fully operational but to also invest in a quarantine station
at Humera to restrict traders from avoiding quarantine requirements by diverting to this route. The Mission agrees that
this could be started under the Project but emphasizes the need for the GoE to commit to finalizing the construction
outside of the project and allocate funding to do so.
*  RCBP has established and supported ARDPLACs to enhance research-extension linkages and has also covered the
cost of ARDPLAC meetings. This is an activity that should continue beyond the project as a regular Government
activity and will be transitioned to the regular program. The Project has supported FREGs also to enhance research-
extension linkages. Many of the FREG initiative are still on-going and require further support. The Mission feels that
this also needs to be transitioned to the regular Government program and proposes that the MoA request a budget for
FREG strengthening from MoFED.
Based on the above, a proposal for reallocation of IDA and CIDA funding has been developed and is provided in Annex
4. Given the need to reallocate Project funding for additional long term training costs and for the competitive research
grants program (as well as some escalation in costs of civil works and of imported goods), the Mission finds that funding
currently available to the Project remains insufficient to cover the costs of all activities required to complete the Project
and achieve its objectives.6 The shortfall is about 1.74 million USD, which together with an earlier allocation by MoFED
brings the total funding gap to about 2.27 million USD. It is to be recalled that the World Bank and GoE cancelled 13.0
million USD from the Project in 2010 with the understanding that some of these funds would be reimbursed to RCBP if
the Project faced a shortage of funds to achieve its development objective. It is therefore agreed that the MoA will request
a supplementary budget from MoFED for an additional 30.02 million ETB. The details of this request are provided in
Annex 3
Assessment of Fiduciary Issues and Compliance with Safeguards Policies
Financial Management: Although, the Mission finds that, overall, the Project's financial system provides reasonable
assurance that IDA loan proceeds and CIDA TF are being used for their intended purposes; it has identified some key
areas of concern (discussed in detail in Annex 6). The Mission commends the PMU for the progress made in addressing
issues identified last Mission. However, it emphasizes that prompt action is required on the weaknesses indicated below
to ensure orderly closing of the project.
*   Weak budget control and monitoring: Budget monitoring both at PMU and EIAR were found to be rather weak and
disorganized, with budget overruns continuing even though there is a financing gap as noted above. As a result the
budget for EFY2004 had to be revised as part of the current Mission. The Mission emphasizes that budget should be
regularly compared with actual, variances determined, analyzed, and explained, and meaningful corrections made if
variances are unavoidable. The Mission was informed that regional coordination offices and lAs assess the monitor
use of budget determine variances a quarterly basis. However, reports on the same are not sent to the PMU. It is
therefore difficult to say that this exercise is being used as a management tool to determine areas where attention is
needed.
*  Inadequate SOE submission from Regions and implementing agencies: SOE submission of implementing entities has
progressed from the previous mission and the amount of unjustified advance has dropped from 70.4 million ETB to
40.78 million ETB in the current mission. Although there is great progress in reducing the receivable balance, given
the short remaining time for the project and that recovery on the advance has begun, the balance is of concern. The
PMU should intensify its efforts to ensure that advances are settled immediately so that the project does not suffer
further from cash constraint
*   Weak reporting: lAs provide late and incomplete reports which has affected the accuracy and completeness of IFRs
submitted to the Bank. For example, the expenditures of EIAR and the Afar Region were not included in the recently
submitted IFR. Although a revised report is received from the PMU, the completeness of reports should be given due
attention. In addition, reporting on the Oromiya Region was incomplete as the coordination office did not receive
reports from all its project woredas and its report to the PMU was in turn partial.
6 Added to this, due to exchange rate fluctuations between the Canadian Dollar and USD, funding obtained from the CIDA co-financing trust fund is
less than expected during the calculation of the budgetary shortfall during the last mission.
5 1Pag


﻿Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project           Aide Memoire August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
* Staffing: EIAR has only one accountant dedicated to the Project. This is directly affecting the reporting and general
financial management of the project. The Amhara region also has a staffing problem which is affecting the collection
of SOEs from woredas. This is a critical concern; the PMU and senior management of lAs should ensure that staff are
quickly replaced and that short term arrangements are made in the interim.
* Preparations for project closing: In view of the upcoming closing of the project, there is a need to ensure and plan for
proper closing procedures (as elaborated in Annex 6). As part of this, the fixed asset register for all regions should be
prepared and/or updated to ensure that all fixed assets are properly handed over and the internal audit function of
regions should be strengthened.
Procurement: The Mission found that procurement activities are progressing well but with delays. Since the project is
coming to a close, emphasis should be given to complete procedures for all planned procurement activities as early as
possible. lAs with large procurements such as the ECX, ATVET Colleges, APHRD and EIAR as well as the PMU should
closely follow up and expedite procurement processes to ensure that all deliverables are received before the closing date
of the Project. There are several areas of concern in this regard including the construction work of the Metema Livestock
Quarantine Station, various procurements under the development innovation grants of Ardaita and Agarfa colleges
(including vehicles and tractors procured by the PMU) and the installation of IT infrastructure for the ECX which need
particular attention. The PMU should also speedily finalize procurement of all required consultancy services as there is
little time left to actually carry out required technical assistance and studies.
The Mission notes that in addition to finalizing planned procurements in the remaining period of the Project, the PMU and
lAs should pay particular attention to procurement filing. In accordance with the RCBP financial agreement, procurement
files should be maintained for at least five years after the closing of the project. Thus complete procurement documents
should be maintained in a safe and secure place.
Safeguards: RCBP triggers OP/BP 4.01 and OP/BP 4.12 on environmental impact and involuntary resettlement. The
Mission finds that there is still no systematic use of the Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
checklists for screening sub-project before they are implemented. However, due to the nature of most project activities, no
significant environmental or social impacts are observed - with a few exceptions.
*  Construction of the Metema Livestock Quarantine Station has displaced 12 households. It was agreed during the last
mission that the PMU would develop an ARAP as soon as possible and that, in the absence of this, all civil works
funded by RCBP at the site will be discontinued pending its finalization. As agreed, construction at the Metema
livestock quarantine site has been halted. The ARAP has now been developed and reviewed by the Bank and its
implementation is almost complete. The Mission furthermore found that all save one affected households have
accepted the compensation package proposed.
*  The Project undertakes various civil works most of which are small structures. The Metama Livestock Quarantine
Station however is not small but was implemented without detailed study on the impact of the construction on the
environment. The mission also noted that the proposed electric supply and drilling of deep water well did not go
through proper environmental impact assessment process. It is recommended that a brief report on environmental and
social impacts of the civil works at Metema including electric and water supply and suggested mitigation measures be
submitted for the Bank's no objection by October 15, 2011 before work on electric and water supply starts.
* 18 FREGs established in the Benishangul-Gumuz Region have combined to construct a small irrigation canal. The
canal was constructed with inadequate consideration of the potential negative environmental and social impacts. The
Mission noted that the irrigation has a design problem that puts the canal at a high risk of erosion and siltation and that
landslides have has already prohibited water flow. The irrigation canal needs immediate action to ensure that the
construction will be completed with a proper design and due consideration of potential environmental and social
impacts.
Progress towards the PDO: The Mission finds that with the proposed extension of the project closing date, the Project is
more or less on track to achieve its development objective. For example, there is evidence of downstream adaptive
research involving shorter-term validation, testing and dissemination of improved technologies in concert with extension
and farmer groups; and, of significantly more multi-disciplinary and multi-stakeholder research projects. However, a
shorter timeframe for technology development, greater coordination within the national agricultural research system
(EARS), engagement of multiple stakeholders in setting research priority agenda, and effective identification of clients'
needs have not been observed due to the delays in implementation of the reform agenda related to the governance and
operational modalities of EARS as well as the long-term nature of institutional changes being sought. Similarly, while
61Pag


﻿Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project            Aide Memoire August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
there is still no clear evidence of increased farmer satisfaction with extension services, new innovative modalities for
delivery of advisory services, much appreciated by farmers, have been introduced. ATVET colleges are introducing
changes in both their education and administrative systems as they implement a new ATVET Strategic Plan but it is too
early to assess performance in terms of reduction in student dropout rates and increased satisfaction of clients. The results
framework as updated using the Project's regular monitoring data is provided in Annex 9. Achievements of intended
results will be further confirmed by impact evaluation studies currently being contracted.
AGREEMENTS REACHED
1. Request for reallocation and extension: The Mission proposes a second order restructuring to extend the closing date
up to June 30, 2012 and to reallocate IDA and CIDA funds. The details are provided in Annex 4. MoFED will
submit a formal request to this effect to the World Bank within a week.
2, Financing gap: The MoA will request a supplementary budget from MoFED of 29.02 million ETB to finalize project
activities and commit to undertake activities that extend beyond June 30, 2012.
3. Shift in emphasis under extension: The Mission reiterates the previous agreement that FREG strengthening should
focus on institutionalization/sustainability of FREG groups. And, implementation of FIFs should strictly follow the
guidelines sent to all woredas since the last mission with greater emphasis placed on involvement of women (and not
only as women only groups).
4. Institutionalizing competitive research grants program: The ELAR will urgently develop a strategy for
institutionalizing the competitive grants programs currently funded through N/RARFs, seek seed funding from
government, mobilize funding from development partners and phase out RCBP support.
5. Financial Management: The PMU, implementing agencies and Regional project teams willtimplement the action plan
to address weaknesses in financial management that has been provided, together with a detailed supervision report, in
Annex 6. A consultative meeting will be held at the end of October, 2011 to review progress on this action plan.
71 Pa e


﻿Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project                     Aide Memoire August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
KEY PENDING ACTIONS/NEXT STEPS
Action Description                         Timeframe        Component            Responsibility
Request for supplementary budget of 29.02 million ETB to finalize  October, 2011  All Components  MoA/MoFED
project activities.
Finalize 2nd order restructuring of the Project (for extension and  By 3rd week
2     reallocation of IDA and CIDA TF allocations) and associated   October, 2011    All Components  MOFED/World Bank/ CIDA
amendments to legal documents
Revisit DIG proposal to accommodate increased costs of vehicles and  End October
3     overrun on book purchases under ISG. As funds permit, help introduce  2011 O   ATVET           JUVACM/Ardaita, Agarfa
something more innovative and/or experimental.
Transition FIFs, FREGs, and support to ARDPLAC to regular
extensions activities; including request for budget from government  October to end            PMU, Regional coordinators,
4     sources to cover related activities, document and disseminate best
practices from FIFs and FREGs, investigate reasons behind irregular
ARDPLAC meetings and suggest revisions to ARDPLAC guidelines
Negotiate with Haramaya University to include assess reasons for
5     irregularity in ARDPLAC meetings and provide associated      Immediate         Extension       PMU/Extension Directorate
recommendations in their study
6     Review reasons for attrition in long term training           Immediate         All Components  PMU
Approve payment levels for pocket money to female diploma students  Imrmnediatc  Extension     MoA senior management,
as agreed at the last SC meeting and urgently effect payments.                                 PMU
Share list of recommended example FREG strengthening activities with  Immediate  Extension
all involved in FREG implementation                                                            PMU
Assess irrigation scheme constructed by 18 FREGs around Assosa area,
recommend and as project resources allow, implement actions to ensure  Starting   ensonPMU Benishangul-Gumuz
that the construction will be completed with a proper design and due  November, 2011           BoA
consideration of potential environmental and social impacts.
Develop strategy for institutionalizing N/RARF competitive grants
10    program including identification of funding for fiAizing on-going  December. 2011  Research  EAR and PMUIResearch team
projectsDc-rbc,21
Develop strategy and action plan to transfer scaling up activities to
extension service; and, for multiplicatimn and demonstration of localty  End January'  Research  EIAR and PMUIResearch team
adapted acquired technologies with sustaiinable funding mechanism and  2012
participation by the private sector including cooperatives
12    Submit to WB an EIA report on both the water and electricity supply  October 15,2011  SPS      PMU & APHRD
works for the Metema Livestock Quarantine Station
13    Send vehicle procured for Metema Livestock Quaranti ne Station to its          SPS             APHRD
duty station                                                  Immediate
14    Finalize implementation of the Metema ARAP, share status with WB  October 15,2011  SPS         PMU and APHRD
and resume construction on Metema Livestock Quarantine Station.
(a) Seek approval from the Bank to revokete supervision consultancy  (a) Immediate
15   services for Metema and [lura Livestock Quarantine Stations (b)  (b) October 15,  SPS         PMU & APHRD
Institute an alternative so that construction can Continue    2011
16   Implement FM action plan (see Annex 6)                        Starting Oct. II  All Components  PMU/lAs/Regions
17    Further update RE                                            October, 2011     All Components  World Bank
18    Work on continued improvements in reporting (activities, financial,  Ongoing   All Components  PMU
procurement)
19    Reach decision on support to the study on lessons, develop TORs and  Recruitment by  All Components  CIDA
recruit appropriate experts to undertake study                end Oct. 2011
20    Close follow up on delayed activities including finalization of all  On going  All Components  PMU/IAs
contracting by end December, 201 1---some more urgently7      O g              A
21    Ensure staffing is filled up to end of project, including through short  On going  All Components  PMU/IAs
term assignments or TA                                      1                 1
7 Including (a) JUVACM's support to implementation of DIGs and review of TTLM/Curricula, (b) implementation of DIG at Ardaita
and Agarfa colleges, (c) dissemination of ATVET strategy and occupational standards, (d) short term training under the extension
component, particularly for FTC management committee members, and SMS training for non project woredas where FIF groups have
been established, (e) woreda level internet connectivity for Woreda Offices of Agriculture, (f) FREG strengthening and support to
FIFs; (g) follow up on proposed organizational and management arrangements and operational modalities for EARS, (h) development
of irrigation facilities at selected research stations, (i) follow up on NARF/RARF awarded projects; () procurement, delivery and
installation of ECX's IT infrastructure, (k) full implementation of ARAP and completion of Phase I construction of Metema
Livestock Quarantine Station, (1) supply of water and electricity for the Metema Livestock Quarantine Station, (in) equipping and
furnishing of Metema Livestock Quarantine Station, (n) follow-up on studies to evaluate project impact and the government ICR.
81 P agea


﻿Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project              Aide Memoire August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
DISCLOSURE: The Bank and the GoE confirm their understanding and agreement to publicly disclose this Aide
M6moire. The disclosure of this Aide Memoire was discussed and agreed to with the MoA represented by Ato Wondirad
Mandefro at the wrap-up meeting that took place on October 3, 2011, at the MoA, Addis Abeba.
9[ Vae


﻿Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project            Aide Memoire August 27, 2011 to September 30, 2011
ANNEXES
- Annex 1: People met during the mission
- Annex 2: Matrix of Status of Agreed Actions from last Mission
- Annex 3: Action Plan and Budget for Remaining RCBP Activities
- Annex 4: Proposal for RCBP Restructuring
- Annex 5: Detailed Assessment of Implementation Performance
- Annex 6: Financial Management Report
- Annex 7: Procurement Review
- Annex 8: Safeguards Review
- Annex 9: Monitoring and Evaluation and Updated Results Framework
10 Page


