Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building                                    Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012


                                       AIDE MEMOIRE
                            Final Implementation Support Mission for
                The Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project (IDA 42010; TF90085)
                                     April 22 to May 7, 2012

INTRODUCTION: A joint World Bank/Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) review and
implementation support mission of the Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building Project (RCBP) took place from April
22 to May 8, 2012.1 The mission conducted field visits in Amhara, Somali and Oromiya Regions and visited as
Agarfa, Ardaita and Holetta Agriculture Technical and Vocational Education and Training (ATVET) Colleges.
The Mission also held a one day meeting with implementing agencies (IAs) and Regional project coordinators
and undertook intensive consultations with the Federal Project Management Unit (PMU). A wrap up meeting
was held with Ato Wondirad Mandefro, State Minister, Ministry of Agriculture (MoA. The Mission would like
to thank Government of Ethiopia (GoE) counterparts for the cooperation in planning and organizing the Mission
and fruitful discussions. This Aide-Memoire summarizes the Mission's findings and documents some lessons
learnt from five years of RCBP implementation.

CONTEXT: The project development objective (PDO) is to assist the Ethiopian Government to strengthen
agricultural services and systems and make them more responsive to clients' needs.2 This is to be achieved by (a)
strengthening and reorienting agricultural technical and vocational education training by making ATVET
colleges more responsive to changing needs, (b) improving the effectiveness of the agricultural extension
service, (c) enhancing the capacity of research institutions to generate appropriate agricultural technologies; and,
(d) strengthening agricultural markets through the efficient functioning of a newly established commodity
exchange and improvements in sanitary and phyto-sanitary standards to enhance export of livestock.

As per the recommendation of the last Mission, the RCBP closing date has been extended by eight months up to
June 30, 2012 to allow completion of some key activities. The current Mission was conducted about two months
from the Project's extended closing date. The Mission therefore looked at whether the project would complete
activities as planned and assessed results achieved over the life of the Project. It has also considered whether
innovations introduced through the Project would be sustained. A recurring issue since the mid-term review of
the Project has been that the available budget remains insufficient to allow planned activities to be implemented
in full. During the last Mission, it was agreed that the MoA would request the Ministry of Finance & Economic
Development (MoFED) 29.02 million ETB in a supplementary budget allocation to finalize project activities.
The Mission also identified some key activities that would need to be carried out after the extended RCBP
closing date and reached an agreement with the MoA that the Ministry would take on these activities with its
own resources after Project closing.

KEY FINDINGS

Implementation Progress: With some important exceptions, most RCBP activities have now been completed.
The Mission's assessment of implementation progress under each component is summarized below and
discussed in further detail in Annex 5.



1
  The team included Laketch Mikael, Team Leader (AFTAR), Elise Rafuse, Co-Team Leader (CIDA), Mary Breen (CIDA)
 Comp. 1, support to ATVETs, Jonathan Cook (FAO/CP), Chimdo Anchala (AFTAR)  Comp. 2 and 4 support to
Agricultural Extension and ICT, Teklu Tesfaye, (AFTAR)  Comp. 3, support to the National Agricultural Research
System, and Esayas Nigatu, (AFTAR)  Comp. 5, Support to Market Institutions. Ingrid Mollard, (AFTAR), Meron
Techane, (AFTFM), Shimelis Woldehawariat, (AFTPC) assessed arrangements for monitoring and evaluation, financial
management and procurement respectively. Rahel Lulu and Blen Tilahun, (AFCE3) provided logistics support.
2
  The PDO was formally revised in November, 2008.


1|Page
Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building                                    Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012


Component 1 Support to ATVETs: ATVET colleges primarily provide pre-service training for DAs and
cooperative promoters for the public sector agricultural extension system. With the understanding that this is a
limited role vis--vis the teaching/training capacity of the ATVET colleges and the needs of the agricultural
sector, RCBP sought to help the GoE think through and start implementing a more meaningful, comprehensive
and self-sustaining approach to agricultural technical and vocational education in Ethiopia. A wide range of
activities have already been undertaken in this regard. To bring RCBP support to completion, it was planned that,
over the past 6 months, the ATVET strategy (already endorsed by the MoA) would be integrated into the general
TVET strategy and disseminated. And, that curricula and teacher training and learning materials (TTLM)
developed by individual colleges in relation to new occupational standards introduced as part of a new TVET
strategy would be reviewed by Jimma University College of Agriculture and Veterinary Medicine (JUCAVM)
for further refinement. Implementation progress has however been limited as the MoA, Ministry of Education
(MoE) and Regional TVET Bureuas/Commissions have not reached a common understanding on some aspects
of the ATVET strategy document. A national workshop has been carried out, which has been used as a means of
resolving differences among stakeholders rather than for dissemination of a new ATVET strategy. The MoA
intends to follow up on the workshop by revising the ATVET strategy document as per feedback received from
other stakeholders, integrating this into the general TVET strategy and seeking the required endorsements. It
will also undertake regional workshops to disseminate a final approved strategic document and sensitize
stakeholders on its contents. This will not be finalized before the RCBP closing date but the MoA has committed
to carry out all required actions with its own resources within the next 6 months. JUCAVM has started to review
the new occupational standards and related curricula and will complete the review before the RCBP closing date.
A preliminary observation from the review is that operationalizing of the new occupational standards requires
complementary investments that are often not feasible. It is expected that occupational standards, related
curricula and TTLM will be refined outside of the Project.

RCBP has also supported the implementation of various elements of the ATVET strategic document within two
federal ATVET Colleges: Ardaita and Agarfa, through Development Innovation Grants and has built
institutional capacity in four federal Colleges: Ardaita, Agarfa, Alagie and Bekoji with Institutional
Strengthening Grants. All activities under the Institutional Strengthening Grants have been completed and,
although considerably delayed, the Mission feels, that with concerted efforts to finalize some outstanding work,
activities under the Development Innovation Grants will also be completed by the close of Project. The Mission
observed that, with these investments, at least two of the supported colleges are now well placed to function as
more efficient and client oriented institutions (see details in Annex 5). Institutional development is, of course, a
long term process and support to these colleges needs to be continued beyond RCBP. The Mission feels that
with support from the Royal Netherlands Embassy through the NUFIC Project, Ardaita ATVET College will be
able to build on RCBP investments to further improve its services. The momentum created by RCBP for
institutional development at Agarfa does, however, risk being lost as Agarfa ATVET College has not secured
any support to continue with this process. The Mission recommends that assistance be provided to the college to
help develop a proposal for further implementation of its strategic plan which could be presented to interested
development partners for funding. The Task Team will explore options for TA to help in this. The Mission notes,
that although institutional capacity building for Bekoji and Alagie ATVET Colleges has been provided through
RCBP, training at Bekoji ATVET College, discontinued about a year ago, has not resumed. Unfortunately,
agreements reached during previous Missions that the fate of the college would be urgently resolved and training
commenced at the start of the current academic year have not been realized.

Component 2: Strengthening Agricultural Extension Services: Activities related to strengthening of the
agricultural extension services are finalized (with the exception of long term training that will continue beyond
the Project closing date). Over the past 6 months, further modular training has been provided to woreda
extension staff and DAs though approximately 20% of DA training planned over course of the Project will not
have taken place. Support to Farming Training Centers (FTCs) in terms of physical capacity building,




2|Page
Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building                                       Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012


distribution of extension materials and putting in place capable FTC management committees 3 has also been
provided although performance is less than planned and the Project will close with around 37% of FTCs
supported only partially functional (with either no demonstrations, limited or no training being conducted,
inadequate generation and/or retention of internal revenue, no capable management committee in place or
mobility of DAs is seriously constrained). Guidelines for documenting farmers' best practices (for subsequent
scaling up) have been developed and sent to all regions, and Regions have been moving forward in this regard.
This documentation now needs to be turned into extension materials with photographs, etc. and sent to
appropriate FTCs to have any real impact. Finally, a few (51) new farmer innovation groups (FIFs) have been
established. It is however, not evident that establishment of FIFs has followed FIF guidelines. Furthermore, in
most cases FIFs have been established outside the RCBP project areas and therefore do not benefit from the
Project's complementary investments on FTCs. There is still considerable confusion between FIFs, FREGs and
routine demonstration activities.

The Mission notes that activities that were to be carried out by an allocation of funding from the GoE's own
resources have not been implemented.4 Hence, the support to FTCs has not been completed. Strengthening of
farmer-research-extension groups (FREGs) to allow them to reach their full potential as an effective extension
method has in many instances not been carried out5 and meetings of Agriculture Development Partners Linkage
Advisory Council (ADPLAC) continue to be irregular. These outstanding activities are important to ensure
sustainability of RCBP interventions and institutionalization of innovative approaches. Given that the afore
mentioned activities remain outstanding, the Mission recommends that in the next 2 months before Project
closing, workshops already started in Oromiya and Tigrai be held in all Regions to urgently discuss the issues of
institutionalization of initiatives (found to be beneficial) into the regular agricultural extension program and to
agree on concrete plans for implementation. It is also recommended that a national workshop be held focusing
both on lessons learnt from RCBP implementation (including findings of the study with Haramaya University on
DA responsibilities and motivation, ARDPLAC and FREG performance) as well as assessment of how
innovative approaches have been implemented and their institutionalization. Also regarding institutionalization
of RCBP interventions, the Mission notes that the modular training provided by the Project would need to be
continued in the future with refresher training and new training programs for new DAs. There are now a large
number of trained trainers within the system and it is recommended that the Regional workshops also incorporate
planning on how such training would continue under the regular extension program.

Component 3 Enhancing Institutional Capacity of the Agricultural Research System: Most activities under the
Agricultural Research component have already been completed and the Mission expects that all planned
activities will be completed by the end of the Project. This, however does not mean that everything started by the
Project will be finalized at Project closing; i.e., (a) 104 professionals from the research system currently in long
term training, most of which are not expected to finish their studies by the RCBP closing date of June 30, 2012;
and, (b) 3 out of 37 sub-projects funded through the National Agricultural Research Funds (NARF) established
through the Project that will not be completed by June 30, 2012. While it is understood that the MoA and EIAR
will cover the cost of on-going training from their own budgetary allocation, the Mission is still not clear that
sufficient arrangements have been made for the completion of on-going NARF sub-projects. The EIAR has
developed a strategy for institutionalizing of and mobilizing resources from various private and public
stakeholders for the program. This strategy is not yet operational and a review (see Annex 4) suggests that its

3
  The Mission has observed that where FTC management committees have been properly established with full membership
and a measure of autonomy; and, their members have been trained (about 84% of planned training has been carried out), the
training seems to have had a significant effect on improving the effectiveness of FTC management.
4
  With the possible exception of support to agricultural extension in the Somali Region through the research system.
5
  An important exception to this is strengthening of 18 FREGs in Benishangul-Gumuz Region through which an investment
on small scale irrigation had been made. The Mission understands that the irrigation scheme has been re-designed and
associated environmental and safeguard issues have been addressed. The Mission was unable to visit Benishangul-Gumuz
but a follow up visit by the Task Team is planned for later this month.


3|Page
Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building                                      Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012


operationalization would be best handled by the National Agricultural Research Coordination System that is still
under establishment. A temporary arrangement for funding of ongoing sub-projects after June 30, 2012 is
therefore necessary. The Mission recommends that a bridging proposal be urgently developed to maintain the
current agricultural research funds with funding from EIAR and possible contributions from interested donors
until a more broadly managed competitive agricultural research grants program can be set up. On-going sub-
projects would be finalized with funding from this source and the MoA should present the proposal to the
RED/FS sector group as soon as possible to mobilize additional funding and ensure continuity of activities. The
Mission notes that no request for a budgetary allocation to contribute to such a program has been included in
EIAR's budget submission to MoFED for EFY 2005 and urges the Institute to submit such a request before the
budget process for the year is concluded.

The Mission also reiterates recommendations from the last Mission that EIAR should develop a strategy for the
multiplication and distribution (with sustainable sources of funding and a clearly defined role for the private
sector) of technologies acquired from oversees and adapted to Ethiopian conditions under RCBP's technology
short-cut window, e.g. high value fruit tree varieties for different agro-ecologies, improved genetic stock of
poultry, and active microorganism for different uses. This would allow the support provided to reach its full
potential. There also appears to be a need to do more on the regulatory environment and procurement procedures
governing the acquisition of such technologies. Related to this, under the sub-component of institutional capacity
building within the national agricultural research system, RCBP has supported technology pre-scaling out
activities by agricultural research centers in emerging regions and underdeveloped areas of the four large
Regions of the country. It has already been agreed that, in due course, this should be transferred to the
agricultural extension system if it is to reach its full potential. Support to pre-scaling out activities has continued
over the past 6 months and, at the same time measures have been taken to transfer such activities to the
agricultural extension system. The Mission appreciates this development but it is concerned that there has been
too little direct involvement of extension throughout the process to enable a seamless move from generation of
technology to introduction and up-scaling. In some cases large scale `up-scaling' activities have been led by
research where they really need to be led by extension for the system to be sustainable. A gradual process of
handover is also needed rather than an abrupt cessation of research involvement when extension is expected to
take over the work. The mission recommends that research institutions continue to be part of the pre-scaling out
initiative but their role should be limited to one of playing catalytic role and backstopping and that the extension
system be engage from the outset in these activities.

Component 4 Improving Information Communication Systems (ICS): At the last Mission, it was observed that
while in most RCBP woredas, local area networks (LANs) linking different departments of the Offices of
Agriculture have been successfully set up, connectivity with the internet (and through the internet, linkage with
Regions Bureaus of Agriculture and the Federal MoA as well as to global networks) had not been achieved
although the PMU and Regional RCBP focal persons were exploring different options for connectivity. Since
then, 80 out of 136 woredas (59%) have achieved connectivity. The PMU will continue to implement this
component until the Project closing date. Nevertheless, it appears that this component will not be completed as
planned.

Component 5: Strengthening Agricultural Market Institutions: Activities remaining under the sub-component in
support of the Ethiopia Commodity Exchange (ECX) are limited to the installation of price tickers in 150 major
agricultural markets and the installation of IT infrastructure at the Exchange. All procurement of goods related to
these two activities has been completed but installation/operationalization of the price tickers; and, shipment,
clearing and subsequent installation of IT infrastructure for the Exchange is progressing slowly. The IT officer at
the ECX has assured the Mission that, at the close of the Project, the IT infrastructure for the Exchange would
have been delivered and installed. However, installation of price tickers will not be completed. Currently 50 out
of the 150 planned market centers have tickers that are functioning. The ECX will complete any remaining work
to install price tickers in all planned market places within 6 months.



4|Page
Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building                                    Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012


Under the Sanitary and Phyto-sanitary sub-component, as indicated in the last Mission, RCBP's support to the
ecto-parasite control program has been completed. The current Mission observed that subsequent to the support
provided by RCBP, ecto-parasite control was carried out in a more comprehensive and responsible manner
within woredas that received the support with due attention for the need for protection of staff and volunteers
against potentially harmful chemicals during spraying of livestock. The Mission furthermore understands that the
approaches to ecto-parasite control carried out with RCBP support have been integrated within the wider
government program and is satisfied that RCBP investments in this regard have been successful.

The Project planned to support the construction and equipping of two livestock quarantine stations; one at
Metema and the other at Humera, to facilitate the trade in livestock. Work on both stations continues to be
delayed significantly. Regarding construction of the station at Metema, civil works, interrupted due to the need
for an abbreviated resettlement action plan (ARAP) to compensate 12 households displaced by the initiative,
have not resumed even though the ARAP has been successfully implemented. Also, while it is recognized that
works beyond the current civil works contract are necessary to make the station fully functional (some structures
indicated in the design are missing from the bill of quantities, water and electricity supply have been omitted
from the design), no practical measures have been taken to fulfill these remaining requirements. As there is
slightly less than 2 months remaining before RCBP is due to close, it is unlikely that the Metema Livestock
Quarantine Station can be completed and made fully operation by the Project. Similarly, construction of the
Humera Livestock Quarantine Station has not even begun nor has a civil works contract for the construction been
awarded. Establishment of facilities on major livestock trading routes to be able to certify the health of exported
livestock is a GoE priority. The Mission therefore agreed that the MoA would fully take over the construction of
both livestock quarantine stations but carry this out at its own pace. Since it is not acceptable for the Project to
close with a partially constructed facility that will not be completed within a reasonable period after Project
closing, the GoE will return all payments made on the Metema Livestock Quarantine Station to the Project
account and use such funds as well as the amount set aside for Metema phase I construction to cover costs under
other components. A request for reallocation of both CIDA TF and IDA allocations should be submitted to the
World Bank as quickly as possible so that this can be processed without delay. Clinical materials and a vehicle
already procured for the Metema Livestock Quarantine Station should be distributed to other livestock
quarantine stations without delay.

Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The PMU has faced considerable challenges in the
implementation of RCBP, which are outside of its control and/or a result of weaknesses in earlier stages of
implementation, including insufficiency of project funding following cancellation of about 13 million USD from
the project (with considerable difficulties in securing additional funds to complete Project activities that have in
principle been made available to the Project), an inflationary environment that has put pressure on maintaining
budget controls, inadequate attention to safeguard policies at the start of civil works that disrupted activities,
which were then difficult to resume, weak implementation capacity among implementing agencies requiring the
PMU to assume some implementation responsibilities. The Mission appreciates that the RCBP has, in this last
stage of its implementation, faced considerable difficulties and commends the PMU (at both the federal and
regional levels) for bringing many activities to completion. Nevertheless, neither the PMU nor senior
management of the MoA, EIAR and Regional Bureaus of Agriculture have been able to fully resolve the
challenges faced by the Project. Also, agreed actions to improve implementation performance have always only
been partially implemented and action is often not taken to explore reasons for poor or over achievements against
plans and to routinely address causes of such divergence. As a result, one component of the Project will close
without accomplishing any significant results. That the responsibilities of the PMU are spread between two
projects has exacerbated the problem

While the last Mission noted some progress in terms of strengthening of M&E arrangements, it is now observed
that there has been a setback in the routine monitoring and reporting of project performance such that it does not
provide the PMU with reliable data to support effective management and oversight of the project's activities. In
addition, it does not support proper supervision of project implementation by the World Bank/CIDA Task Team


5|Page
Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building                                    Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012


as reporting is often inconsistent and little explanation is provided about significant divergences between planned
and implemented activities. The monitoring of procurement activities is also of concern as discussed further
below. On the other hand, the necessary evaluation and studies to inform the Government and World Bank
Implementation Completion Reports to assess the results and impact of the project as well as to draw lessons
learnt for the sector and other projects are under way despite significant delays, but require close follow up. Such
studies include includes: (i) the end of project impact evaluation; (ii) the ATVET study; (iii) the NARS study;
and (iv) the ARDPLACs/FREGs/DAs study. It will be very important for the PMU to closely follow-up on these
studies to ensure that they address its need for its evaluation and that they are delivered within the required
timeframe. An M&E review will be provided in Annex 8.

Assessment of Fiduciary Issues

Financial Management (FM): The mission concludes that the FM system in place provides reasonable assurance
that Project funding is being used for intended purposes. It also observed improvements in some key areas: (a)
SOE submission from regions and implementing agencies has improved  the PMU has traveled to many regions
and woredas to clear outstanding balances (b) registration of all fixed asset procured by the project has started
and is progressing (c) interim financial reports and audit reports have been submitted to the Bank on time with
acceptable quality (d) ineligible expenditures noted at EIAR and Somali region are refunded back to the program
two cases, handed over to legal departments, need further follow up and action. While there have been
improvements in the financial management of the Project, the Mission stresses the importance of close
management attention, action and follow up on the following issues:

    Although SOE submission from implementing entities has been increasing from time to time, this still needs
    close follow up given the project closing date. Aged advances amount to 25% of all advances and require
    close follow. Advances made to EIAR are of particular concern. The project has undocumented balance of
    USD 3,525,000.00 under IDA Cr.# 42010 and USD 500,000.00 under TF90084 which needs to be
    documented before the disbursement deadline date of October 31, 2012.
    A lost laptop at Somali region needs to be replaced. Additionally, uncollected advance for Birr 18,000 is still
    pending. Although both cases have been transferred to the legal department for corrective action, these
    remain registered as ineligible expenditures and need to be refunded back to the Project account
    immediately.
    At SNNP, it was noted that the region transferred Br. 170, 923 to Debub Agricultural Research Center out of
    which Br. 86, 496 was reported by the center but was rejected by the region due to expenditures being out of
    the approved activities. This amount needs to be refunded back to the region immediately.
    In view of the upcoming closing of the project, there is a need to pay particular attention and plan for proper
    closing procedures. The detail is included in Annex 6 but includes the following among others:
    o Fixed asset register for all regions should be updated and prepared to ensure that all fixed asset is
        properly handed over at the closing of the project.
    o Internal audit function of the regions should be more involved in the closure procedures of the project to
        ensure smooth handover f documents and assets.
    o It is important to ensure that FM specialists at both the federal and regional levels need to be maintained
        after the Project closing date to ensure proper accounting of project funds. The Mission has noted with
        concern that the contract for the FM specialist at the PMU will expire on June 30, 2012 and that formal
        notice has not been given to regional accountants to continue their services after RCBP closes down.
        Yet, the work relating to FM will go beyond such time.
    o Finally, the Bank finance procedures for closing projects should be carefully followed for smooth
        winding up of the project.

Budget preparation and control continues to be weak. The Project has been operating in the context of a budget
shortfall and the Mission has noted that additional funding to finalize project activities has not been secured



6|Page
Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building                                   Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012


although reallocation of fund from the construction of the Metema Livestock Quarantine Station will ease some
of the shortages. The Project will nevertheless close with some activities not completed. The Mission
emphasizes that requests for the required budget allocations in EFY2005 should be developed and followed
through to ensure that the MoA and EIAR finalize activities started but not completed by the Project as discussed
in earlier sections.

Procurement: As in the case of the last Mission, the current review of procurement has found that procurement
activities are progressing well but with delays. In particular, there are consultancy services at the federal PMU
that are still not completed. Moreover, as discussed above, the contract for the construction of the Metema
Livestock Quarantine Station has been under negotiation for an extended period. Similarly, while the MoA has
discontinued the contract with the construction supervising consultant for the Metema and Humera civil works,
related consultations for an amicable resolution of differences have not been completed. The Mission was
unable to assess the status of other procurements since a full update of the procurement plan could not be
obtained from the PMU. It is imperative that the PMU ensures no procurement processes are carried out beyond
the closing period of the project. The Mission therefore strongly recommends that the PMU follow-up on the
procurement status of all IAs. It also advises that the PMU and IAs pay particular attention to procurement
filing. The PMU should ensure that complete procurement documents should be maintained in a safe and secure
place in accordance with the financing agreement of the project. Annex 7 provides the full procurement review
including findings of a post procurement review undertaken in Amhara and Tigrai Regions.

Results Achieved in Relation to the PDO and Intermediate Outcomes: As per the (formally revised), results
framework, achievement of the PDO is measured according to (a) income change of farming households, (b)
productivity changes in main commodities; and (c) number of new agricultural activities adopted in project
kebeles. The first two indicators can only be measured through a household survey. Such a survey has been
undertaken and results will be made available at the end of this month. Nonetheless, The PMU has reported that
new agricultural activities are being adopted in Project woredas over and above what was targeted by the Project
as Regions have observed that, on average, 4 new agricultural activities or technologies per project kebele are
being adopted by farmers, which is double the target. The Mission acknowledges this achievement but notes that
this is insufficient to measure achievements in relation to the PDO which seeks strengthened agricultural services
and systems which are also more responsive to clients' needs. It has therefore also assessed achievements by
agricultural service supported as per the intermediate outcomes of the results framework. An update of the
results framework is presented in Annex 3.

ATVET: Strength of ATVET services and responsiveness to clients needs is ultimately measured by satisfaction
of clients and performance of students. This is currently under study and the Mission cannot make any
conclusions to this effect. However, the Mission notes that 2 federal ATVET colleges (Ardaita and Agarfa) have
developed and started implementing strategic plans that incorporate some aspects of a new ATVET strategy and
this has lead to a better learning  teaching environment and improved management of the institutions. Changes
reported by the colleges are discussed in detail in Annex 5 and appear to be substantial. It appears that the
Project's objectives have been met in two colleges (which corresponds to the targets of the results framework),
but this is not yet generally applied throughout the sub-sector since changes to improve ATVET services
nationally (i.e., through the development of a new ATVET strategy) are still under discussion and will be
introduced only after the Project is closed.

Agricultural Extension: Enhanced effectiveness of agricultural extension services are measured by satisfaction of
farming/pastoral households, adoption of new technologies/practices and the use of new extension methods that
are more participatory and exhibit strong interaction among different stakeholders. The Mission focused on the
latter indicator as results of the survey measuring farmer satisfaction and technology adoption are not yet
available. It concludes that several new/modified extension methods such as training and demonstration at FTCs
that is more interactive with farmers, farmer innovation groups, scaling up of farmer best practices and a shift
from FRGs to FREGs to engage the extension service more centrally in experimentation and adaptation of


7|Page
Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building                                   Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012


research findings  are being used. The effectiveness of such methods is however mixed. DA interaction with
farmers is reportedly much stronger, and where support to FTCs has been fully implemented, these are operating
as effective training and demonstration sites. Nevertheless, preliminary evidence suggests that farmer innovation
groups are not very successful. Active engagement of extension in FRGs has been achieved with the move of
FRGs to FREGs and ADPLACs that approve FREG proposals, where operational; i.e. at zonal levels, are more
interactive. However, implementation of FREGs needs to be refined in terms of the continued heavy influence
of research in identification of problems, the level of free inputs that are being provided, further expansion of
introduced technologies as well as an exit strategy for FREGs once their function is completed. Similarly, scaling
up of farmer best practices also requires some strengthening.

Agricultural Research: Improvements in agricultural research is measured by the proportion of farmers who
express satisfaction with the quality of technologies introduced to them, the proportion of stakeholders of the
national agricultural research system (NARS) satisfied with coordination arrangements; and, the
institutionalization of new approaches such as the promotion of multi-disciplinary and/or multi-institutional
research projects and shorter timeframes from commencement of research to technology release. Preliminary
results show that about 75% of farmers are satisfied with the quality of technologies introduced to them (similar
to the start of the Project), which suggests that RCBP capacity building have not yet yielded results on the
ground. However, new approaches initiated by the GoE that should lead to a more efficient agricultural system
have been promoted and related implementation issues identified for further action. This includes setting up a
participatory, transparent and multi-disciplinary competitive research grants program that will be
institutionalized within the EARS, technology shopping/shortcuts (though this should be implemented within a
rigorous regulatory framework), and although not included as part of the indicators of the results framework,
popularization of new technologies through the research system has been promoted in emerging regions. Gender
action plans and related research are being implemented improving the responsiveness of agricultural research to
women's issues. Modalities for NARS coordination have been developed (although not yet implemented). After
an extended consultation process, during which modalities have been amended and refined, all NARS
stakeholders have expressed satisfaction with the proposed system. Unfortunately, this has been achieved only at
the end of the Project. The proposed modalities are not yet endorsed by high government officials and are not yet
operationalized on the ground, so there is little to be observed regarding the impact of reforms in this regard on
the quality and effectiveness of agricultural research.

Market related services: RCBP sought to build capacity of three market related services including strengthening
of a newly established commodity exchange, strengthening of sanitary and phyto-sanitary services to promote
exports of livestock and improving ecto-parasite control to upgrade the quality of exported hides and skins. With
the exception of ecto-parasite control, the Project has not met its objectives related to strengthening market
related services; either because support has been delayed or not completed. Regarding ecto-parasite control, as
has already been indicated earlier, RCBP has helped the veterinary service in selected woredas to carry out ecto-
parasite control in a more comprehensive and responsible manner with due attention to the need for protection of
staff and volunteers against potentially harmful chemicals during spraying of livestock.

Overall, RCBP achievements in light of the indicators and targets of the results framework are modest.
However, the Mission notes that capacity building, particularly the introduction of institutional reforms is a long
term process. The RCBP PDO and intermediate outcomes that envisage agricultural services would become
more responsive to client needs within a period of 5 years and that are measured by changes in agricultural
productivity and incomes are therefore overly ambitious. The Project may not have been able to fully achieve its
intended outcomes but this does not mean that results achieved are not significant.

LESSONS LEARNT FROM RCBP IMPLEMENTATION: As this is the last implementation support
Mission of the RCBP, this Aide Memoire documents lessons learnt rather than discussing agreed actions
intended to improve implementation performance as would normally be the case. The Mission highlights the
following lessons


8|Page
Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building                                   Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012



1. While the concept of "capacity building" incorporates both strengthening of existing systems and
    institutional reforms, capacity building interventions tend to achieve greater headway with regard to the
    former. RCBP implementation highlights the necessity of consensus building, a common understanding and
    familiarization of new ideas and approaches by all stakeholders and some experimentation  in moving
    forward with institutional reforms.
2. Given item #1 above, the introduction of institutional reforms and impact from the changes can only be
    expected over the medium and longer term. Expected outcomes from interventions that support institutional
    reforms should therefore be modest.
3. There has been a tendency to integrate new modalities or methods of service delivery with on-going
    practices, which dilutes innovations. For example, implementation of FIFs has tended to be used very much
    as an extension of demonstration at FTCs and not as farmers' initiatives to experiment with local knowledge.
    Any intervention that seeks to introduce new initiatives or modifications to existing practices must be able to
    clearly delineate the institutional innovations and should closely follow up on how these are being applied.
4. Capacity building for improved services is carried out as services are provided. Full attention cannot
    therefore be dedicated to just capacity building. Planning for capacity building activities needs to take into
    consideration that capacity building for improved services is undertaken simultaneously with on-going
    service delivery and should therefore not take on too many actions at one go. This is often overlooked and
    leads to a dissatisfaction with progress with capacity building efforts that is not warranted
5. Human resource development is a key part of capacity building. Because in-service training supported by
    projects is often not institutionalized and therefore does not follow normal training parameters, it runs the
    risk of being implemented in such a manner that the training is not effective or of a required standard. For
    example, in the early stages of RCBP implementation, training to DAs was carried out in large classrooms
    with limited practical applications and no assessment of its effectiveness. While this was rectified, it does
    point to the need for paying particular attention to putting in place pre-determined parameters for how
    project supported training will be carried out, to seek feedback from end users on effectiveness of training,
    and to follow up on such feedback with concrete actions so that training is of the required quality.
6. Effectiveness of capacity building efforts in general and institutional reforms more specifically is enhanced
    when this is applied within the context of a strategic plan that is developed through a consultative process
    and is owned by all stakeholders. Lack of a strategic approach can result in very haphazard efforts.
7. Where there is a weak implementation capacity and multiple stakeholders as in the case of RCBP, it is
    important that implementation be coordinated by a strong PMU and that IAs interact regularly with each
    other and the PMU by assigning focal person that are members of a technical committee. A steering
    committee with multiple stakeholders is insufficient to ensure coordination on the ground. The strength of
    the PMU is important from several perspectives including, authority for decision making, adequate team
    composition and favorable team dynamics, availability of facilities, sensitivity to non-technical services
    (gender, safeguards, M&E, financial management, etc), and an awareness of the importance of using
    information from monitoring of project activities and financing for effective management of the Project
8. To enhance women's participation, affirmative action and gender disaggregation, while very useful is only a
    starting point. There is a need to follow this up with tailored action based on assessments and better
    understanding of social and cultural factors that affect women's performance. Some observations are that (a)
    the assistance and involvement of gender focal persons as interventions are planned for and their active
    engagement during implementation is key to improving the participation of women; (b) linking with
    women's affairs structures and Woman Affairs Directorates within IAs makes a difference; and (c), where
    beneficiaries are organized in groups, women only groups often perform far better in terms of the
    performance of women and encouraging women's active participation.
9. Project performance is influenced by staff turn-over. While this is inevitable, sufficient attention needs to be
    paid to establish a system for hand-over of responsibilities as staff move from one position to the next.
10. In any capacity building initiative, particularly where new and innovative approaches are being introduced,
    sustainability issues need to be considered early in the introduction of initiatives.



9|Page
              Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building                                           Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012


              KEY PENDING ACTIONS/NEXT STEPS
                             Action Description                                                    Timeframe         Component         Responsibility
1       Closely follow up to ensure that outstanding activities are completed before the                            All
                                                                                                         --                            PMU
        closing date of the Project. 6                                                                              Components
2       Secure funding to carry through uncompleted RCBP activities (e.g., long term
                                                                                                  By end of         All
        training and sub-projects from the competitive agricultural research grants) beyond                                                  MoA
                                                                                                  Project           Components
        the Project closing date
3                                                                                                                                      PMU with
        Assist Agarfa ATVET College to help develop a proposal for further implementation         Within the
                                                                                                                    ATVET              assistance from
        of its strategic plan to be presented to interested development partners for funding.     next month
                                                                                                                                       WB
4       Undertake regional and national workshops to urgently discuss the issues of
                                                                                                  Up to project     Agricultural
        institutionalization of RCBP initiatives into the regular agricultural extension                                               PMU
                                                                                                  closing           Extension
        program and to agree on concrete plans for implementation.
5       (i) Develop bridging proposal to mobilize funds for competitive agricultural
              research grants
                                                                                                  Within the        Agricultural
        (ii) Present proposal to the RED/FS sector group and mobilize funds                                                            EIAR and MoA
                                                                                                  next month        Research
        (iii) Submit a request for a budgetary allocation to EIAR to contribute to the
              competitive grants program.
6       (i) Transfer responsibility for construction of livestock quarantine stations to MoA
        (ii) Return all payments made on the Metema Livestock Quarantine Station to the
              Project account
                                                                                                                                       PMU
        (iii) Submit to WB reallocation request to use such funds as well as the amount set       As soon as        Market
                                                                                                                                       MoA
              aside for Metema phase I construction to cover costs under other components.        possible          Institutions
                                                                                                                                       World Bank
        (iv) Urgently process of reallocation request
        (v) Distribute clinical materials and a vehicle already procured for the Metema
              Livestock Quarantine Station to other stations.
7       (i) Follow-up on the procurement status of all IAs.                                            --
        (ii) Follow up on procurement filing.                                                          --           --                 PMU
        (iii) Finalize contracting for consultant undertaking the Government ICR                     May, 15,
8       Update results framework as preliminary results from case studies and impact
                                                                                                         --         Project Mgt        PMU
        evaluation are received and work closely with consultant engaged on the Gov. ICR
9       Extend contracts for FM specialists at both the federal and regional levels beyond
                                                                                                     Immediate      Project Mgt        MoA/BoAs/EIAR
        Project closing date
10                                                                                                    Starting
        Implement FM Action Plan (see Annex 6)                                                                      Project Mgt        PMU
                                                                                                    immediately

              DISCLOSURE: The Bank and the GoE confirm their understanding and agreement to publicly disclose this
              Aide Mmoire. The disclosure of this Aide Memoire was discussed and agreed to with the MoA represented by
              Ato Wondirad Mandefro at the wrap-up meeting that took place on May 15, 2012, at the MoA, Addis Abeba.

              ANNEXES
    -   Annex 1: People met during the mission                                     -   Annex 5: Detailed Assessment of Implementation
    -   Annex 2: Status of Agreed Actions from last Mission                                     Performance by Component
    -   Annex 3: Update on Results Framework                                       -   Annex 6: Financial Management Review
    -   Annex 4: Comments on NARF/RARF Institutionalization                        -   Annex 7: Procurement Review
                 Strategy                                                          -   Annex 8: Monitoring and Evaluation Review

              6
                This includes activities related to (a) ATVET Development Innovation Grants and review of curricula related to new
              occupational standards under the ATVET strategy, (b) institutionalizing new extension approaches (c) delivery of
              biometrics and GIS equipment as well irrigation facilities at the Semera Dubti ARC under the Research Component, (d)
              establishing internet connectivity wherever possible at the woreda level, (e) delivery and installation of IT infrastructure for
              the ECX as well as operationalizing price tickers at major agricultural markets (f) consultancy services related to the study
              of achievements under the project and the implementation completion report.


              10 | P a g e
Ethiopia Rural Capacity Building   Aide Memoire April 22 to May 7, 2012




11 | P a g e
