FILE -COPY,
DOCUMENT -OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-15 85-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
March 12, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank-Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Unit            Won
Won 485             =    US$1.00
Won 1,000                US$2.06
Won 1,000,000            US$2,061.86
Fiscal Year              January 1 - December 31



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $22.5 million to help finance
a third education project. The loan would have a term of 25 years, including
seven years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.        The last economic report ("Current Economic Position and Prospects
of the Republic of Korea") was distributed under cover of R74-42 dated
March 4, 1974. An assessment of Korea's economic situation is given below.
An Economic Updating Mission returned in February 1975 after completing its
field work in Korea; its report is under preparation. The Country Data
Sheets are included in Annex I.
3.        Korea's economic performance over the last decade has been out-
standing. In the period 1964-73, the GNP growth rate averaged 10 percent
a year in real terms and real per capita income more than doubled. The
rapid rise of output and an appreciable decline in the population growth
rate (from nearly 2.7 percent in the early sixties to 1.7 percent in 1973)
were major reasons for the rapid increase in income. A key factor in the
growth of the economy has been the increase of manufactured exports from
about $60 million in 1964 to $2,800 million in 1973. Such exports in 1973
accounted for over 90 percent of commodity exports and about 29 percent of
industrial output. The ratio of exports to GNP rose rapidly from 4 percent
in 1964 to 27 percent in 1973 and the manufacturing sector as a proportion
of GNP increased from 16 percent to 28 percent in the same period. Agricul-
ture, which has had a growth rate of about 3.5 percent a year over the past
several years, declined as a proportion of GNP from 46 percent in 1964 to
23 percent in 1973.
4.        Rapid growth transformed the Korean economy from one characterized
by dependence on agriculture and sluggish growth in the 1950s to one of
dynamic growth based on increasing industrialization in the 1960s. Never-
theless, there have been problems. The two which have caused the Korean
Government most concern are (a) the resource management problem, resulting
from a heavy reliance on external capital and (b) the question of distri-
bution of growth benefits, arising out of a faster productivity growth in
manufacturing than in agriculture.
5.        Total real investment grew six-fold between 1964 and 1973, and
the ratio of investment to GNP rose from 13 percent to 25 percent. External
resource requirements also grew rapidly during 1970-71 averaging over 9
percent of GNP, roughly the same level as in the early sixties. The



-2-
marginal saving rate during the last decade was 30 percent which would
indicate that the large capital inflows did not weakened efforts to mobilize
resources domestically. Korea, however, entered upon a period of rapid
growth with a very low level of domestic savings and, therefore, in the
interest of rapid acceleration of investment and growth tolerated relatively
heavy dependence on external capital. In the early seventies when financial
difficulties resulted from bunching of payments due on short and medium
term debt and a sharp rise in the debt service ratio, the Government
took corrective action to moderate the rate of private investment, to
increase the inflow of capital on concessional terms from official sources,
to impose restrictions on suppliers' credits, and to improve the balance
of payments position through substantial exchange rate adjustments.
6.        These measures, combined with a reduction in Government real
investment and uncertainty in the Korean business community about export
prospects, produced a marked slowdown in the economy during the 1970-72
period. Even with a continued high rate of export expansion (about 50 per-
cent per annum on average in current terms), real GNP growth averaged only
8 percent per annum during 1970-72, compared with about 13 percent in the
preceding three years. Real investment stagnated during 1970-72, and the
ratio of fixed investment to GNP dropped from 27 percent in 1969 to 22 per-
cent in 1972.
7.        Although income distribution in Korea is generally more equitable
than in comparable developing countries, the benefits of economic growth
have not been shared evenly. The absolute gap in incomes between urban
and rural areas widened during the 1960s despite a massive migration to the
cities. Growth of labor productivity in agriculture has been considerably
slower than in the manufacturing sector. Since 1967, the Government has
attempted to raise farm incomes and to provide incentives for increasing
foodgrain production through a price support system for rice and barley.
These measures reduced markedly the gap between average rural and urban
incomes during 1968-72. Nevertheless, growth of the industrial sector is
likely to continue to be more rapid than that of the agricultural sector,
and the Government believes that, unless the proportion of rural incomes
provided by non-farm sources is increased, the disparity of incomes will
tend to widen. Therefore, the Government broadened its efforts to achieve
more balanced growth by pursuing policies of decentralizing industry and
emphasizing investment in the less developed regions, and in late 1971
initiated the Sae Maeul (New Community) Movement as a nationwide comprehensive
self-help program to increase productivity and incomes in the rural areas,
where nearly half the population still lives, and to improve the quality of
rural life.
Recent Changes
8.        During the last two years or so the Korean economic situation has
been subject to sudden and sharp changes. Beginning with the latter part
of 1972, the Korean economy witnessed an unprecedented boom. 1973 was
an exceptional year, even by Korean standards, and set new records of



- 3 -
growth in GNP, exports and savings. GNP grew by 16.5 percent in real
terms, primarily because of increases in exports and fixed investment.
Commodity exports, in nominal terms, rose by over 90 percent, denoting
an increase in real terms of about 60 percent. National savings, which
had dropped to about 15 percent of GNP in 1972, rose to 22 percent in
1973D surpassing the previous peak (1970) of about 18 percent. Foreign
savings were only about 3 percent of GNP and financed only about 12 percent
of total investment, compared with about 40 percent from 1968 to 1971. The
rapid rise in foreign exchange earnings, which included a marked increase
in tourism income, also reduced the ratio of debt service payments to export
receipts to about 10 percent in 1973.
9.        The remarkable performance of the economy in 1973 encouraged
both business and Government to view the future with increased confidence.
In the latter part of 1973, Korean economic aspirations were expressed
in terms of targets of $1,000 per capita income and $10 billion of exports
by the early 1980's. The long-term strategy implied the continuation over
the next decade of the overall rate of GNP growth of about 10 percent per
annum but with reduced dependence, in relative terms, on net inflows from
abroad. At the same time, major structural shifts were being planned for
manufacturing. The objective of deepening the industrial structure was to
be achieved by emphasizing shipbuilding, steel, petrochemical and metal-
working industries, while continuing to develop existing industries such as
textiles and electronics. The long-term plan also provided for the achieve-
ment of parity between rural and urban household incomes by the early 1980's
through accelerated growth in labor productivity in agriculture and an
increase in off-farm employment by greater regional dispersion of industry.
10.       The favorable economic developments of 1973 were interrupted by
external developments in 1974. The sharp rise in the price of petroleum
in late 1973, the recession in the Japanese and the U.S. economies during
1974, and the high level of foodgrain import prices have combined to bring
about a major change in the short-term economic position of Korea. Owing
to its poor natural resource endowment and because of its economic structure
and growth strategy, Korea was severely affected by these recent international
developments. Merchandise exports now account for about 30 percent of GNP
in Korea and dependence on the Japanese and U.S. markets has remained heavy.
A major element in the Korean export picture during 1973 was an expansion
of over 200 percent in exports to Japan, which was made possible by a very
sizeable expansion in total Japanese imports. Nearly 75 percent of total
Korean exports went to the U.S. and Japan during 1973. Korea was thus
particularly vulnerable to the recession in the Japanese and U.S. economies
during 1974. The revival of the Japanese economy and the future trend in
Japanese manufactured goods imports will probably continue to be major
determinants of the Korean growth rate in the future, although the Government
is making efforts to diversify its export markets by encouraging sales in
the Middle East and Europe.
11.       In the short-run, however, the higher costs of energy and food
imports have added a burden to the economy which is even more serious



- 4 -
than the setback to export growth. Korean dependence on imported fuels
is not only extremely heavy but is very closely linked to essential indus-
trial and transport uses. The passenger vehicle fleet is small, with only
one private car per 152 famiilies; truck transport and diesel-powered rail
traffic are the basic transport modes for commercial goods. The higher
costs of petroleum added almost $800 million to the Korean import bill
between 1972 and 1974. Over the same period, the three-fold rise in the
prices of foodgrains increased foreign exchange requirements by more than
$350 million, despite a decline in the volume of imports. Korea is at
present importing about 2 million tons of wheat and about half a million
tons of rice annually, constituting respectively 85 percent and 11 percent
of total domestic consumption. Together petroleum and foodgrains accounted
for 36 percent of Korea's increased import bill in 1974 and 25 percent of
total import payments that year.
12.       These international developments have greatly weakened the Korean
balance of payments position in 1974 and prospectively in 1975, slowed the
rate of growth of output and employment and increased inflationary pressures.
13.       The current account balance of payments deficit widened from the
low level of $308 million in 1973 to an estimated $1,440 million during
1974, or by more than $1,100 million. The major factors in the deterioration
were an adverse swing in the terms of trade of 16 percent (equivalent to
a loss of about 5 percent of GNP) and a large negative balance on the
services account, due in part to a decline in tourism receipts. The
deterioration was notwithstanding a substantial further improvement in
real exports of about 10 percent, to a total of $4.8 billion, and only
a modest growth in real imports. The entire improvement in export volume
was concentrated in the first half of 1974. Real export earnings in the
final quarter of 1974 are estimated to have been six percent below the
corresponding quarter of 1973.
14.       At current prices, total import payments (c.i.f.) are estimated
to have been about $6.9 billion in 1974, an increase of $2.3 billion, or
about 63 percent, over 1973. But in real terms, imports are estimated
to have increased by little more than 2 percent in 1974, mainly as a result
of decreases in imports of grains and capital goods, and only a small
increase in raw materials.
15.       It is estimated that the net inflows of capital (medium and long-
term loans and foreign private investment) into Korea during 1974 remained
at the 1973 level of about $1 billion. Consequently, the increased current
account deficit had to be financed entirelv through an inciease in private
short-term debt, a reduction of external reserves, Bank of Korea borrowings
abroad and drawings on the IMF gold tranche and first credit tranche and
the use of the IMF oil facility. Korea's net international reserves, which
stood at about $945 million at the end of 1973, had declined to about $90
million by the end of 1974. The rundown of net reserves enabled the
maintenance of levels of imports and economic activity in 1974 which otherwise
would not have been possible.



16.       Notwithstanding the Government's policy, the impact of external
developments on Korea's domestic output, employment and prices has been
marked. In the first half of 1974, GNP continued to grow in real terms by
14 percent over the corresponding period of 1973, as industrial output and
real exports continued to increase and fixed investment remained at a
relatively high level. In the second half of the year, however, there was
a sharp slowdown in industrial output, private fixed investment and export
sales (particularly for textiles and plywood). The GNP for the second half
of 1974 is estimated to have been only about 3 percent above the level in
the latter half of 1973. Despite the levelling off of industrial production
there was a substantial build up in inventories of export products. Unemploy-
ment began to rise as a result of the combined effects of the industrial
slowdown, business failures and temporary closures. Between August and
November, 20,000 workers were idled. Failures of over 100 businesses in
textiles, ceramics and electronics were reported and more than 250 others
experienced temporary closures for varying periods. More than 650 businesses
partially curtailed operations. Open unemployment at the end of 1974 is
estimated to have reached about 600,000, or about 5 percent of the labor
force, compared with an average of about 4 percent in 1973. However,
because of less overtime, fewer shifts and partial workweeks, the real
increase in unemployment and the decline in real wages was much greater.
17.       Imported inflation has led to a very sharp upward pressure on the
domestic price level. In addition to the sharply higher prices of imported
petroleum and foodgrains, the average unit value of other imports increased
by 45 percent during 1974. 1/ Consequently, the rate of domestic inflation
accelerated with consumer prices rising at an annual rate of 31 percent
between December 1973 and June 1974 and wholesale prices increasing at
double that rate. Since the middle of the year the rate of domestic in-
flation has slowed somewhat, reflecting seasonal factors, the slower
increase in the prices of imported goods and the dampening effects of
rising inventories of manufactured goods. It is estimated that during
calendar year 1974, wholesale prices rose by about 45 percent.
18.       In general, the Government is committed to accepting necessary
adjustments arising from higher energy and other import costs. It was
not, however, prepared to place on consumers the full burden of higher
import costs of basic foodstuffs. Thus, despite dramatic increases in
prices paid by consumers for foodgrains, substantial subsidies are still
involved in the sale of wheat and rice. Complete avoidance of these subsidies
at a time of growing unemployment and declining real wages in manufacturing
was considered inequitable. Nevertheless, the Government intends to move
during 1975 to reduce the deficit on the grain account which has largely
offset public savings during the last two years.
1/ The unit value of exports also increased during the year, but by only
34 percent.



- 6 -
Government's Response to Higher Import Prices
and Reduced International Trade
19.       The Government began early in 1974 to take action to limit the
growth of imports. In January, the general exemption from customs duties
available for machinery imports for the export sector was eliminated. Taxes
on luxury imports and a number of domestically produced commodities were
raised. However, finished non-food consumer goods comprise a relatively
small share of Korea's total imports (about 5 percent in 1973), so there has
been limited scope for cutting down on non-essential imports. To reduce
demand for petroleum products, tax rates including tariffs on private cars
were raised substantially.
20.       Because of slack demand, the burden of financing inventories
and continued increases in costs, a growing number of industries faced
serious cashflow problems in the second half of the year. This prompted
a number of mid-year changes in Governmental policies. The generally tight
financial policies in effect in the first half of the year were eased,
credits for imported and domestic industrial inputs were increased and
programs to purchase excess stocks and make available special credits to
smaller businesses were begun or expanded.
21.       The Government in December 1974 introduced a set of special
measures to offset the sluggish demand for exports that had been experienced
since mid-year. It expanded the program of export financing and provided
loans for the stockpiling of essential raw materials. Credits to exporters
for the purchase of imported raw materials and domestic goods were increased.
On December 7, 1974, the currency was devalued by 17.5 percent to Won 485
per US dollar. The devaluation was not expected to increase exports appre-
ciably because of the depressed state of Korea's overseas markets, but like
some of the other measures, it was intended to improve the liquidity position
of manufacturing enterprises. It should also improve the competitive position
of import substitution industries which had been weakened during the year.
But the devaluation will also result in continued inflationary pressures
in 1975. Among measures taken by the Government to help the low income
groups are substantial income tax relief, a 30 percent increase in salaries
of Government employees and public works projects mainly in the urban areas
to alleviate unemployment. The rural areas appear to have been hit less hard
by domestic inflation. The terms of trade moved further in favor of the
farmers during 1974 as the support price for rice was adjusted sharply upward.
22.       The past year has been a period of very difficult adjustments
for Korea which, by and large, have been made quickly and with realism.
The Government rightly views some of its current economic problems as being
essentially short-term in nature. It assumes that a recovery in the growth
rate of OECD countries will take place in the second half of 1975, in which
event Korean merchandise exports could be expected to increase by 10 to 12
percent in real terms for the year as a whole. Private fixed investment may
remain depressed for some months but the Government intends to stimulate
business and employment through increased public sector outlays, especially
for irrigation, farmland reclamation, highway construction, housing and urban



- 7 -
waterworks. For example, about 87,000 units of housing, in addition to
the 112,000 units orignally planned will be undertaken in 1975, and about
334,000 new jobs are to be created in the public sector with hiring priority
to be given to unemployed persons in the low income groups. In addition
to increased capital expenditures, the Government proposes to continue
purchasing and stockpiling surplus inventories of such major industries
as textiles and plywood, for later release when the export and domestic
markets are more favorable. The overall budgetary deficit is expected to
be substantially larger than in 1974 and it is to be financed mainly by
borrowing from the Bank of Korea and from abroad. The Government is expected
to restrict the expansion of credit in low priority areas, raise interest
rates and increase the reserve requirements for banks to moderate inflationary
pressures. Essentially, the Government's strategy is to minimize damage to
the private sector during the current period of slack demand, so that when
international economic activity picks up the Korean export sector will be
able to respond. Excessive business failures and loss of capacity in the
private sector during the present slump would make recovery of the Korean
economy slower and more costly.
23.       The considerable uncertainty surrounding the international economic
situation makes it difficult to assess confidently Korea's economic pros-
pects for 1975. The Government hopes that, with its antirecessionary
measures, aided by a recovery in OECD countries in the second half of 1975,
GNP in real terms may increase by 6-7 percent and industrial output by as
much as 14 percent. However, if the recovery in the export markets is
delayed, industrial growth would be less vigorous, perhaps in the range of
10 percent, and levels of unemployment and underemployment would be even
higher.
24.       Even with a recovery in the OECD countries later this year,
Korea will face a large current account deficit estimated at about $1,700 mil-
lion. This estimate assumes that merchandise exports will increase by 10 per-
cent in real terms during 1975, that real import growth will be limited to
less than 9 percent, and that some marginal improvement (about 2 percent)
in the terms of trade will take place. An overall import growth of around
9 percent will permit 11-12 percent growth in petroleum, food and raw
materials imports and a modest increase in capital goods imports. With a
slower growth of imports it would be difficult to maintain an adequate
level of food supplies and to achieve the expected recovery of industrial
output and exports in the second half of 1975. Finding the means to finance
the large external deficit is Korea's most urgent economic challenge. The
servicing of the sizeable foreign borrowing required should not pose serious
difficulties for Korea given the present low debt service ratio and continued
good long-term prospects for export growth, provided that the proportion of
added debt incurred on short and medium terms and at high interest rates is
not too great. Korean export growth, which in real terms averaged approxi-
mately 30 percent a year during the last decade cannot be expected to be
sustained at that rate in the future. Considering, however, that 90 percent
of Korea's exports now, and prospectively, consists of manufactured goods,



-8-
that its links with the Japanese economy remain strong, that vigorous
efforts are being made to penetrate new markets, especially in the Middle
East, and that progress has already been made in diversifying the in-
dustrial structure, a long-term real growth rate of exports of 10 to
12 percent seems entirely possible even if world trade in manufactures
should expand comparatively slowly. With the prospect of slower growth
in exports than in the past, Korea's plans already envisage greater emphasis
on import substitution in agriculture, especially foodgrains, and in
industry with special emphasis on increasing the domestic value added in
exports. Forecasts of developments in the world economy and their impact
on Korea which is so dependent upon them are especially difficult to make
at this time. However, given Korea's record of successful economic manage-
ment in the past 10 years and the skills, adaptability, vigor and invent-
iveness of its workers and entrepreneurs, one can be confident that ways
will be found to surmount the problems facing the economy.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
25.       As of January 31, 1975, Korea had received 16 Bank loans and 8 IDA
credits, amounting in total to $517.2 million in loans and $107.0 million in
credits (taking into account cancellations and the refinancing of one IDA
credit in a subsequent Bank loan).
26.       About one-half of the total has been for the transport sector -
$119.7 million for railways, $101.5 million for highways and $80 million
for ports. $130.5 million has gone to agricultural projects - $93 million
for irrigation projects, $7 million for livestock development, $10.5 million
for the provision of medium- and long-term credit through the National Agri-
cultural Cooperative Federation (NACF), $7 million for seeds production and
$13.0 million for an integrated agricultural products processing project.
The Korean Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $95 million
in Bank loans for relending to private industry. The balance of $97.8 mil-
lion was for two education projects, a tourism project, and a secondary
cities regional project.
27.       IFC has made six investments in Korea and its gross commitments
amounted to $21.1 million in loans and shares. 1/ It made its first equity
investment in KDFC, of $0.7 million or 14 percent of KDFC's paid-in capital,
at the time the Bank made its first loan to KDFC. A loan of $1.4 million to,
and an equity investment of $0.3 million in, the Honam Silk Co. was made in
1969. In 1971, IFC purchased $0.7 million of the shares of the Korea In-
vestment and Finance Corporation - an institution whose function is to assist
in the development of the capital and money markets, a further investment of
about $0.3 million was made in 1974. In July 1973, the IFC exercised
preemptive rights and purchased at par about $400,000 equivalent of KDFC's
1/   A seventh investment in the Atlas Paper Co. amounting to $5 million
was cancelled at the request of the Company.



-9-
common stock. In June 1974, IFC approved an investment of $17.3 million in
the Gold Star Company Ltd. consisting of a loan of $16.0 million and $1.3
million in equity. Gold Star is a leading electronics manufacturer. In-
vestments of $9 million in Tong Yang Nylon Co., Ltd., and about $3.5 million
in Hae Un Dae Development Co., Ltd. for hotel development have been approved;
an investment in the Korea Securities Finance Corporation is under consider-
ation.
28.       Of total Bank and IDA lending, about $278.1 million remained un-
disbursed on effective loans and credits as at January 31, 1975. The rate
of disbursements has increased in recent months. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of that date
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated in the notes,
progress on project implementation is generally satisfactory, although
difficulties have been encountered with some projects and most seriously with
the Pyongtaek-Kumgang and Yong San Gang Irrigation Projects (Loan 600-KO and
Loan 795/Credit 283, respectively).
29.       The Bank's program for FY75 includes four operations in addition to
the proposed loan: the secondary cities regional project, a first loan to
the Korea Development Bank (KDB), a program loan and a fifth railway project.
The first of these has been approved, documents relating to the proposed
loan to KDB and the proposed program loan have been distributed and negotia-
tions on the railway project have been substantially completed.
30.       The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development will be reflected in the programs for the succeeding years FY76
and FY77. The report of the agriculture sector mission (R73-287, dated
December 19, 1973) provided the basis for developing additional high prior-
ity agricultural projects. A second livestock project, the second stage of
the Yong San Gang Irrigation Project, the Okseo irrigation and regional
development project and the Miho Cheon and Naeseong-Cheon watershed devel-
opment projects have already been identified and are under preparation, and
follow-on projects in agricultural credit and agricultural products process-
ing are also being considered.
31.       Another major emphasis in Korea's plans is the development of in-
dustries such as steel, shipbuilding, machine tools and petrochemicals.
Hitherto, the Bank's lending for industry to Korea has been solely through
the KDFC. As indicated, a loan for industrial development through a second
financial intermediary, the Korea Development Bank (KDB) - a Government-
owned institution responsible for the largest share of term lending for
industry in Korea - has already been appraised. Also under consideration
is a loan to the Medium Industry Bank which provides financing to smaller
businesses.
32.       The development of the industrial and agricultural sectors and of
exports will require concurrent infrastructural development. Although the
transport sector will be given relatively less emphasis than in the past,
the investments required are large, and thus there is considerable financ-
ing for this sector in the proposed program.



- 10 -
PART III - THl EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR: MANPOWER NEEDS
33.       Korean society has traditionally placed a high value on education
as a cultural and social asset. This has made a significant contribution
to the country's economic development. Formal education in Korea, as early
as the mid-fifties, was at a stage comparable with that of countries enjoying
income-levels thrice as high. Compulsory primary education was introduced
in 1948 and has ensured the provision of a basic education of six years to
an entire generation since then. This step, complemented by other government-
funded programs, has been instrumental in the attainment of the goal of
universal literacy. Thus today, virtually all age groups below fifty years
are literate. This investment in education was largely responsible for the
success of the export-oriented industrialization strategy pursued over the
last decade, since the availability of a skilled and adaptable work-force
enabled concentration on labor-intensive industries (such as textiles,
clothing, electronics, and plywood) and partially compensated for Korea's
limited resource-endowment. The quality and widespread distribution of
educational opportunities also facilitated the rapid evolution of an effi-
cient managerial and entrepreneurial class which has displayed considerable
skill and initiative in the exploitation of export possibilities.
34.       Korea's long-term industrial plans are based on the premise that
the growth-path followed over the last decade can be extrapolated through
the early 1980's by continuing to rely on export-led industrial growth to
provide the momentum for economic development. However, the pattern of
industrial growth is expected to change and show a much greater emphasis on
investment in heavy industry both in order to realize the benefits of import-
substitution and to counteract the effects of: (a) the trend towards
protectionism in some of Korea's potential markets for light manufactures
and (b) increasing competition from other developing countries with cheaper
labor costs. Korea's plans to develop its shipbuilding, steel and machine
tool industries are illustrative of the proposed realignment of its devel-
opment strategy towards increasing the production of intermediate and
capital goods.
35.       Thus, the country's shipbuilding capacity, which is concentrated
almost entirely in the Hyundai shipyard which was commissioned in 1973 and
has a capacity of about a million tons per annum, is expected to be raised
considerably in the next decade; the construction of additional shipyards
in the 0.75 million - 1.0 million gross ton p.a. range is being considered.
Similar plans are being developed for the steel industry. The country's
first integrated steel mill at Pohang began operating in 1972 and has an
output of just over 1 million tons p.a. By the early eighties, the expansion
of the Pohang plant and the installation of another steel mill is expected
to raise the production of crude steel to about 15 million tons per annum.
The output of Korea's machine tool industry is about $475 million equivalent;
industrial machinery imports amount to about $700 million per annum. Korea
aims at steamlining and expanding this industry with the objective of not



- 11 -
only becoming self-sufficient but also realizing export earnings of about
$1.5 billion per year by the beginning of the next decade. Much of the
expansion of the industry will be centered around a new machine-tool complex
to be located at Chang-Won (near Masan on Korea's south-eastern coast).
36.       The Government's plans to encourage the growth of heavy industry
will be complemented by an attempt to increase the output of the agricultural
sector which accounts for nearly 30 percent of GNP and on which about half
of the country's population is dependent for its livelihood. Korea has to
contend with a number of natural constraints to increasing agricultural
productivity such as the scarce cultivable area, the low natural fertility
of the acidic soils, variable rainfall and extreme temperatures. Even
so, the sector's productivity has risen at the rate of about 3-5 percent
yearly over the last decade partly because of the success of the Government's
efforts to encourage diversification of production into fruits, vegetables,
sericulture and similar activities which allow utilization of labor more
intensively throughout the year than concentrating exclusively on grain
cultivation. The Government realises that there is considerable potential
for increasing the commercial production of vegetables and fruit as an
input for the rapidly growing agricultural products processing industry.
37.       The development of Korea's export-oriented deep-sea fishery
industry over the last decade has been impressive. Its catch, which was
negligible in 1962, stood at nearly 360,000 tons in 1973 and earned over
$260 million equivalent in exports (slightly less than ten percent of total
exports). The catch is expected to rise to over 2,000 tons by 1981 as a
consequence of the large increase planned in the number of ocean-going
fishing vessels in the 1974-81 period. While it is difficult to predict
the amount of foreign exchange earnings for the period as a whole, the
probability that most of the catch will be exported and that the prices of
products such as tuna fish will remain firm indicate that the deep-sea fisheries
industry will make a significant contribution to Korea's exports.
38.       The attainment of the Government's goals relating to the restruc-
turing of industry, raising agricultural producitvity and increasing
earnings from fisheries will hinge, to a large extent, on the ability of
Korea's education and training sector to supply the required qualified man-
power. Specific demand and supply estimates for scientific and technical
manpower covering the 1972-81 period have been developed in the context of
the Government's overall development plans. These forecasts relate to three
broad categories of manpower: (a) scientists and engineers; (b) technicians;
and (c) skilled workers. The projections are based on the assumption that
GNP growth will average 10.3 percent over the 1974-81 period and indicate
that some 110,000 scientists/engineers, 210,000 technicians and just over 1.7
million skilled workers will be required. A sensitivity analysis based on
the premise that the manpower demand will be halved, and implying a GNP
growth of only 5 percent per annum, has been prepared to determine Korea's
minimum manpower requirements. Even under this conservative assumption and
allowing for the maximum utilization of the capacity of the present education
and training facilities, there would be a shortfall of some 20,000 technicians



- 12 -
and over 300,000 skilled workers; Korea's need for scientists and engineers,
except in certain specialized disciplines, will be more than met by the
existing facilities. This exercise also indicates the need to make the
country's education and training sector more flexible than it is in order to
synchronize it with the planned structural changes in the agricultural and
industrial sectors. Thus, even if the growth of the economy over the next
few years is well below expectations, a selective expansion of the capacity
of the education and training system will be necessary to meet Korea's re-
quirements of technicians and skilled manpower.
39.       Korea's formal education system consists of the following cycles:
primary education (grade 1-6); junior secondary education (middle schools,
grades 7-9); senior secondary education (high schools, grades 10-12); and post-
secondary education in junior colleges (grades 13-14) or colleges and
universities (usually 4 years, grades 13-16). This formal education system
which is under the jurisdication of the Ministry of Education (MOE) is
complemented by several vocational and technical training schemes for which
the Office of Labor Affairs (OLA) of the Ministry of Health and Social
Affairs is responsible.
40.       The Government has accorded educational expenditures high priority
in recent years; for instance, over the last nine years the Central Govern-
ment's outlay on education has risen at about the same rate as its budget
(approximately 28 percent per annum). Total educational expenditures in
1973 reached just over Won 200 billion (about $0.4 billion equivalent) and
amounted to 4.1 percent of GNP which is among the highest for countries
in Asia. Per capita public expenditure on education at around $13 per
annum compares with other countries at a similar stage of development
as follows:  Philippines - $6.3; Thailand - $8.0; Turkey - $9.0.   The invest-
ment already made in the education system provides a sound foundation for
its further development and adaptation in order to meet the country's future
manpower needs.
41.       Primary education reaches 97 percent of the 6-11 age group.   Total
enrollment which was about 5.7 million in 1973 is expected to decline
slightly over the next six years since the population growth rate has
dropped to 1.6 percent per annum compared with 1.9 percent during the
sixties. Primary education appears to be of adequate quality. Roughly
92 percent of students entering it complete the six year cycle. The curricu-
lum is sufficiently broad, text books are easily obtainable and virtually all
of the teachers have the qualifications required for their jobs. School
fees vary from Won 1200 ($2.47) to Won 7.200 ($14.85) per student yearly
(according to grades) and are graduated according to parental income levels.
About 60 percent of the students are partially or totally exempt from fees.
42.       Nearly 70 percent of eligible students attend the country's 1920
middle schools. The standard of education is fairly good. Almost all the
teachers are university graduates. The present curriculum tends to over-
emphasize academic subjects but is being reviewed by the Government as a
preliminary to modifying it by the inclusion of more science and practical



- 13 -
subjects. The question of merging the three-year middle school cycle with
primary education, as recommended in a report prepared by a team from the
Florida State University, is being considered by the Government. The Bank
is being kept informed of the Government's deliberations in this regard;
the Government has indicated its intention to seek the Bank's assistance
for any eventual restructuring of this segment of the educational system.
43.       Over 800,000 students, representing some 32 percent of the
relevant age group, received education at the senior secondary level
(grades 10-12) in 1973. About 40 percent of the students are in general
high schools. Over 400,000 pupils were receiving vocational education
in a variety of institutions offering technical, agricultural, fishery and
commercial subjects. Each student receives about 2000 hours of practical
work over three years which is considered satisfactory. Some of the
teachers, however, appear not to have had sufficient practical training.
The Government is aware of this deficiency and is preparing a scheme in-
volving both pre-service and in-service training to remedy it. During
negotiations it was agreed that a new curriculum for technical teacher-
training would be developed within one year of the signature of the Loan
Agreement and that the curriculum itself would be introduced in existing
educational departments of university colleges of engineering during the
subsequent two-year period (cf Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
44.       The technical training system administered by the Ministry of
Education is fairly efficient, although some adjustment of curricula is
required, especially for teacher-training. The Government realizes the
necessity of supplementing the capacity of formal technical education by
schemes tailored to impart skills needed by workers in certain occupations
in the shortest possible time. It is expected that half of the skilled
workers needed in the 1974-81 period will acquire the necessary skills
through courses offered at various Vocational Training Institutes (VTI's)
and in-plant training centers administered by the Office of Labor Affairs
(OLA) which has the primary responsibility for non-formal training. OLA
operates a well-equipped and well-staffed Central Vocational Training
Institute (CVTI) at Incheon under a UNDP/ILO project (430 students attend
the two year regular course for instructors and the output is about 210 per
annum). The training standard in skills is high and graduates are qualified
to become shop instructors. The total enrollment at CVTI is about 8,000
(including 6,800 students in correspondence courses). Another well-equipped
and well-staffed OLA-administered VTI is located in Busan; it has received
financial and technical assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany.
Over 200 students are attending the regular one-year skilled worker courses
and 350 a three-month retraining course. The training standard is high. The
Asian Development Bank extended a loan of $3.7 million in 1973 for the
construction and equipment of five VTIs which will have a total capacity of
5,160. The first two were completed in 1974 and started courses in September
last. Ten additional VTIs are to be established before 1980; these will have
a total capacity of about 6,000 and an output of about 9,000 per annum. The
proposed project will provide assistance for seven of these VTIs.



- 14 -
45.       The Government also aims at ensuring that the private sector bears
more of the burden of training the workers it employs. With this end in
view, the "Vocational Training Law" passed in January 1967 was amended in
March 1973 and a "Special Law for Vocational Training" has been enacted
requiring firms with more than 200 workers to give training to at least 15
percent of their employees. This legislation, which became effective on
January 1, 1975, marks a shift towards a greater involvement of private
enterprises in vocational training activities. It will introduce a much
greater degree of flexibility into the process of industrial skill acquisition,
both in terms of the volume of training operations and the orientation of
training programs. The establishment of the VTIs and the introduction of
the Special Law represent two major steps the Government has taken to cope
with the anticipated manpower deficit at the skilled worker level and in
certain categories of technicians. In order to complement these measures,
curriculum improvement and the supply of suitable equipment and specialized
facilities in technical secondary education are needed.
46.       The proposed project continues the Bank's policy of helping to
improve the quality of technical and vocational education offered in Korea.
This was the objective of the first and second education projects as well
(Credit 151-KO and Credit 394/Loan 906-KO). A short description of these
Projects and their current status is given on pages 3 and 6 of Annex II).
The proposed project will support the Government's efforts to increase the
supply of skilled workers by improving the quality of the instruction they
receive and by giving support to technician training in specific fields where
manpower shortages are expected. It will also extend assistance to non-
formal vocational training in Korea for the first time.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The proposed project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited
Korea in July/August 1974. A report based on its findings (No. 601a-KO) is
being circulated separately. Negotiations were held in Washington from
January 22 to January 24, 1975 with a Government team led by Mr. Hai Kyung
Lee of the Ministry of Education.
A Loan and Project Summary is attached as Annex III. The major
components of the proposed project are: 1/
(a) Technical Education: The construction and equipping of
a new mechanical technical high school (grades 10-12)
with an enrollment capacity of about 2,000 and an output
of approximately 660 per annum;
1/   The locations of the educational institutes to be supported under the
proposed project are shown on the attached map (IBRD 11249).



- 15 -
(b) Agricultural Education: The expansion of and provision of
equipment for three existing agricultural junior colleges
(Grades 13-14); the present enrollment capacity will be
raised from 1,800 to 2,400 and the output will be increased
by 300 graduates per annum.
(c) Fisheries and Marine Education: The expansion of and provision
of equipment for: (i) a fisheries college (Grades 13-16).
The present enrollment capacity will be raised by 180 pupils
to 1,160 resulting in an incremental yearly output of 50
graduates; (ii) three fisheries high schools (Grades 10-12).
Their combined enrollment would be enlarged from 3,140 to
just over 4,200. Their output would be increased by about
350 graduates per year; and (iii) a merchant marine junior college
(Grades 13-14). Its enrollment would be increased by 640 to
1,600 and the resultant additional output of graduates per
annum would be about 320.
(d) Non-Formal Training: The construction and equipment of
seven new VTI's (cf. paragraph 45 above) with an enrollment
capacity of about 360 each (total 2,520) and an output
of 3,800 trained workers per annum.
(e) Engineering and Technical Services: For pre-investment
studies for the preparation of education projects
which may be considered for Bank financing in the future.
The detailed features of the project are given in paragraphs 54 to
59 below.
Project Implementation
48.       Responsibility.  MOE which has been the executing agency for the
First and Second Education Projects would be responsible for the technical,
agricultural, and fisheries and marine education items described in paragraph
47(a), (b) and (c) above; it would also supervise the preparation of the
education projects referred to in paragraph 47(e). OLA would be charged
with the establishment and operation of the seven new VTI's, paragraph 47(d);
the Government is making arrangements for the provision of the technical
assistance required for the execution of the project.
49.       Administration.   The existing project unit established in MOE for
the implementation of the two ongoing projects would be responsible for the
administration, financial control and liaison with the Bank in respect of
the project items it will administer. However, it is to be strengthened to
carry out the additional work on the proposed project.



- 16 -
50.       A project unit established in the OLA for the implementation of
the five VTI's financed by the Asian Development Bank, (cf. paragraph 15,
above) would be responsible for the seven VTI's. Its staff would be
strengthened by the appointment of an assistant to the Project Director, a
project architect, a project engineer and a procurement officer.
51.       Civil works would be based on the space standards established,
and equipment lists on the master lists approved, for similar institutions
in the first and second projects. In all cases, sketch plans for civil
works and major components of lists of furniture and equipment would be
reviewed by the Bank before procurement.
52.       The design and supervision of civil works would be the responsi-
bility of consultant firms selected and commissioned by MOE and OLA
respectively with the Bank's approval. Korea has sufficient qualified
consultant firms to design and supervise the civil works components of the
project. Provision is also made in the project for $500,000 to cover the
costs of architectural and engineering work required to prepare future
education projects. The implementation of the project depends on the timely
preparation of architectural designs and equipment lists and on an adequate
phasing of procurement. Past experience shows that selection of consultant
firms is a time-consumting process. Assurances were received during nego-
tiations that consultant firms whose services will be required in connection
with the design of civil works will be selected within four months of the
signing of the Loan Agreement (cf. Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
53.       The total project cost is estimated to amount to $39.1 million
equivalent; of this some $22.3 million (approximately 57 percent) is
expected to be in foreign exchange. A breakdown of costs is given in the
attached Annex III. The proposed Bank loan of $22.5 million will cover
slightly more than the estimated foreign exchange component. The remainder
of the financing required will be provided by the Government as outlined
in the Financing Plan contained in Annex III. The recurrent expenditures
generated by the project have been calculated at around Won 1.3 billion
($2.7 million equivalent) per annum at 1974 prices. The Government should
be able to furnish the appropriate amounts without undue difficulty by in-
cluding them in the budgets of the Ministry of Education and OLA.
Detailed Features
54.       Technical Education.   The new school at Iri would concentrate
on mechanical and electrical engineering and plumbing courses to support
the industries to be established in a new industrial complex in the vicinity.
The 80 technical teachers needed for this school would receive in-service
training to bring their skills to an acceptable level, pre-service training
of technical teachers would also be improved (cf. paragraph 43 above).



- 17 -
55.       Agricultural Education:  The ongoing process of diversification
in Korea's agriculture, the increasing complexity and capital-intensity of
the technologies employed, and the potential for agro-industrial development
call for better trained personnel, particularly at the intermediate level.
Earlier Bank Group loans assisted the training of agricultural technicians
through investments in three of the six public junior colleges of agriculture
which train technicians in agronomy, livestock (animal science), horticulture,
forestry, agricultural civil engineering, farm machinery, filature and
sericulture, home economics and food processing. The proposed project item
would provide assistance in the equipping of and minor extensions to the
existing facilities for the remaining three such colleges. Each would
eventually enroll 800 students, compared with about 600 at present. Due to
the remote location of the colleges, some boarding facilities would be
provided under the proposed project. About 50 teachers would be needed in
each institution. The present supply of university trained teachers is
adequate, but some in-service training would be necessary to familiarize the
present teaching staff with the new curricula.
56.       Fisheries and Marine Education: Between 1974 and 1981 the country
plans to almost double its fishing fleet to increase the exports of fishery
products. Since expansion will be particularly marked in the category
of deep-sea vessels, skilled manpower needs will increase substantially.
The project would finance extensions of physical facilities and equipment
for the only existing fisheries college at Busan, and for three of the nine
existing fisheries high schools (at Jumunjin, Pohang and Geoje), all on
the east and southeast coast of Korea where most of the country's fishing
fleet is based. The expanded fisheries college would have an output between
1974 and 1981 of 1,720 graduates in fishing, marine engineering, processing,
aquaculture, fisheries management and fisheries education. About 90 per-
cent of fisheries college graduates become licensed navigators, engineers
and radio operators. Total output up to 1981, would increase to 10,600 under
the second and third projects and would meet about 80 percent of the expected
demand. The remaining deficit of about 3,000 could be met from merchant
marine school graduates. The 20 additional staff for the fisheries college
would be recruited from its own graduates. The three fisheries high schools
would produce during the same period, 4,000 graduates in fishing, marine
engineering, communications, aquaculture, processing and naval architecture,
- over 40 percent of the total output at this level. The specialist teachers
for the fisheries high schools would be graduates of the fisheries college
and Cheju University. The Geoje Fisheries High School would offer a special-
ization course on naval architecture with 540 students to train draughtsmen
for the planned shipbuilding center at Geoje, the country's second after
Ulsan.



- 18 -
57.       Korea's merchant marine fleet is expected to become an important
source of foreign exchange earnings (5 percent of the total by 1981). To
realize this goal, a rapid increase is required in the number of vessels
and, in specialized manpower. To facilitate this, the project would include
financing of equipment for the Mokpo Marine Junior College to enable it
to train better qualified navigators, engineers and radio operators. The
college would expand its enrollment from 960 to 1,600 with 700 each in the
navigation and marine engineering courses and 200 in the radio operators
course. The annual output would increase to 350 navigators, 350 engineers
and 100 radio operators totalling about 40 percent of the expected demand
up to 1981. The Government has already started to build the required
additional facilities. The additional 60 teachers required for the expan-
sion would be recruited from among graduates of the 4-year courses of the
Busan Marine College.
58.       Non-Formal Training.  Korea's anticipated industrial development
will require large numbers of skilled workers. To assist the development
of a flexible and employment-oriented system of non-formal vocational
training as offered by OLA's existing VTI's, the project would include the
establishment of seven new VTI's (each with 360 places). The VTI's would
be located at Chungmu, Changweon, Jeonju, Guxmi, Suncheon, Pohang and Cheonan.
The regular one-year courses would concentrate on meeting the requirements
for skilled workers of the new heavy industries. They would comprise
training related to machine work, general fitting, sheet metal work, welding,
plumbing, electricity and electronics. The program would also include
upgrading of the supervisors' courses. Since the 2,520 places would be used
in 1-1/2 shifts, the annual output from the regular courses would be about
3,800. The success of the Busan VTI (so far the only one in full operation)
suggests that most of the trainees would be able to pass the trade tests and
obtain employment related to their training. There should also be an ample
supply of trainees, given the present application/admission ratio of four
to one which makes it necessary to use aptitude tests as an additional
selection criterion. Instructors for the new VTI's would be provided by
the Central VTI which presently graduates 210 trainees a year following a
2-year course of high standard. This would be adequate to meet the staff
requirements for all VTI's presently under construction or planned.
59.       Technical and Engineering Services.   An amount of $500,000 for
preparatory technical studies for future projects has also been included in
the proposed project.
Procurement
60.       Both project units would work closely with the Office of Supply,
Republic of Korea (OSROK) which coordinates procurement activities. Con-
tracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
following domestic advertising in accordance with local procedures, which



- 19 -
are satisfactory to the Bank, since (a) all the civil works contracts in
the first and second education projects have been awarded to local building
contractors and no foreign firms, although allowed to, have submitted bids
and (b) there is an efficient and competitive construction industry in
Korea. Therefore, it is expected that all of the civil works contracts
would be awarded to local contractors. Furniture and equipment contracts
estimated to cost over $50,000 would be awarded following international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits. Although most of the equipment contracts
are likely to be awarded to foreign suppliers, domestic producers are
becoming competitive in selected lines of manufacture. Most of the equip-
ment to be procured consists of inexpensive items (i.e. with unit costs less
than $1,000) to be distributed to dispersed locations. Furniture and equip-
ment items that cannot be grouped in packages of at least $50,000 with unit
costs less than $5,000 would be procured without prior Bank approval on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. It is expected that
all furniture and 20 percent of the equipment would be procured on this
basis. Foreign suppliers are not prevented from submitting bids under
local procurement procedures. Suitably qualified domestic manufacturers
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent, or the existing
customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing imports.
Customs duties on most of the items to be procured under the proposed
project exceed 15 percent.
61.       Disbursement.  The proposed loan of $22.5 million would finance:
the foreign exchange component of civil works, professional fees, furniture
and equipment; the ex-factory costs of equipment contracts awarded to
domestic manufacturers; and 90 percent of the total cost of technical and
engineering services. The Bank Loan would be equivalent to about 58 percent
of the total project cost and would be disbursed to meet:
(a) 100 percent of the c.i.f. costs of directly imported
equipment, and 100 percent of the ex-factory cost of
locally manufactured equipment;
(b) 70 percent of the total cost of imported equipment procured
locally;
(c) 30 percent of total expenditures on civil works (including
professional fees) and furniture which is equivalent to
the estimated foreign exchange component; and
(d) 90 percent of the total expenditures on technical
and engineering services.
Savings under one category would be available to cover overruns in other
categories. The estimated disbursement schedule is shown in Annex III.



- 20 -
Benefits and Justification
62.       The project would contribute to economic growth by providing more
and better skill training in key sectors. It would help train the manpower
required to support Korea's industrialization program, particularly the
expansion of heavy industries, and the development of special sectors
such as agriculture, fisheries and merchant marine. The additional output
of the institutions in the proposed project would be about 2,700 technicians
and 18,000 skilled workers up to 1981. This output would meet: (a) about
3 percent of the supply of technicians during the period 1974-81; and (b) about
3 percent of the supply of skilled workers during the same period. Other
measures which the Government is taking to meet the expected demand for
technicians and skilled workers are detailed in paragraphs 42-45 above. These
include making middle school curricula more relevant, establishing about
50 new VTI's (in addition to the ones under construction and those to be
financed under the proposed project), and expanding the scope and number
of in-plant training centers. The project would provide improved facilities
and equipment which, together with new curricula to be developed, would improve
skills by the provision of more practical training than at present. With
these improvements it is expected that the contribution of training to worker
productivity would increase.   A survey conducted by the Research Institute
for Industrial Development of Korea indicated that, on average: (a) a
worker gains 20 percent in efficiency from training; (b) training brings
about a significant reduction in the rate of defective work (10 percent to
40 percent depending on the industry); and (c) the accident rate among
trained workers is about half of that among untrained workers.
63.       By supporting the country's industrial development program, the
project would also make an indirect contribution towards the equalization
of economic and social opportunities, and more specifically, towards
reducing urban/rural income differentials. The scope of non-agricultural
activities in rural areas has to increase rapidly lest the moderate income
gap between the countryside and cities widens. The location of the new
VTI's closely follows the Government's policy of geographic deconcentration
of industries. The pursuit of the equality objective would be facilitated by
the achievement of the goal of a 50 percent recruitment quota for rural youth
in the project VTI's; adequate boarding facilities are being provided for
this purpose. About 2,500 of the rural middle school leavers would benefit
annually from this avenue to economic and social promotion.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article II, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution approving



- 21 -
the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
The draft agreement conforms to the normal pattern for loans for education
projects.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
March 12, 1975






ANNEN I
Page 1 of 3 pB.e
CONt' D^TAIT - tt
9A8477   I2 34                                                 nlia  (ead-1972)              725       Per kh2 of arabla Land
RFereocn Countries
K orea                  Theiland   Turk y        5.0000
1190         1970         1970
GNP PElt CAPITA USS (ATLAS BASIS) L                           140 Jg        310 at           220 &        370 /h     2.320 /v
DEM4OGRAPHIC2t                                                                                43 /d        38  e       9.d
Crude birth rate (per thousand)                              40            28               10,          38         19.2 6f
Crud death r.tr (p.r tbohu..d)                               it                          10-90          145 d.      12.4 rf
Infat taootalLty rate (per thoos.ad lito  birth.)                                        0905 14                    1 72
Ltfe epctuancy ot birth (year.)                              56
Cr... r-prod-utioa rat. /2                                  3 1lI!        2.3              3.2          2 56  7 h    1.0
Popul.tio- grrvth rate /3                                   3.0           2.2              3 1 I        45 7i        1.3a
Populati-o grovth rate - urbs.                                                                 Lk ti    4.3
Are r4uru4 re (p404c5t)                                                       '             4   a        42         24.0 /f
1-4                                                                     5 7     ~        52           5 4        68.  17
65 sod over                                                  3             3LbL.                         4           .1
Age depedocyr09                                                           0.8              0.9          0.8          0.4
oo.oi        y dopeidencyo                                                                 1.1          1.1          0.6
Orhar poyclatton o* perucut of total                         25 LI         41 (1            25 Lk        38 /b.1      72 L.
aity plauntdg 40. oi P   co-ptot cutultlI e (thou..)                      ,,              490          484 /OD 
* lu of user. (I of r rrid ormn)                                          10          8.2
EMPLOYMEN
Ttt-l labor forco (thu..anda)                             7,500        10,500 .6                                  53i9
PoruooiOiuoOPIo ed iosgrlonnltote           66            4f               81.          67         19.1
Per 1. L: . .rFplMd La gri-ult.r.                                       4.5 E                           4          1,4
PorucotatgO unecmployod
Peruemt of nIt:ontl J0co0m recie.ed by high..t 5             17            U                17 Lt        32 aL
Percent of _stionol  unsa.   oc-eivd by higheet 201%         42   u         37  f           46 t         60
Peacent of Istlonal Icoee  ceuv d by loteet 20'               7 /".        10 LL             7 ,jt        3 /a.t.v
Perceot of ntolonail tnY ttro.v-d by 1*.t 40,                20   /        24               17 /t u0     10 Intv
DTRIOUTION OF 1.1         P OWllERSHIP
%oodh by top 10% of     ers                                  27            28                           53
' mood by -ea11at 10% of trr                                  3             2                           0.9
HEALTH AlSNU iTRIlTION
Populstioo par physician                                  3,000 lure    2,210 /I         7 970        2,220          880
Pop.l:ti.. pe   ryaioa p.r.                                             1,760 /2         6,650        1,880 L        240
Populat.oI L p6er h. ital bad                             260D &        1,920              850          490           s0
Per c pita colone aupply a. % of reqronenr    L5             85           103              105          110          10I
Per uoptto portein eupply, total (grams per day) L6          53            65               52           7a           76
Of bhich,  tual *nd pulee                                  13 L.         19 I1A           17 /00       22 fa*       45
Death rote 1-4 Yeare /7                                                                                  I            .0 /f
EDUCATION
AdJusted /8 primary school sorollnt ratIo                    96           104               80 11       111          100
Adludted 71 *ondary auhool -nrollmt ratio                    27            41               13 /g        28           90
Years of  uhooling provided, firt nad aeo.nd level           12            12               12           11           12
Voc.tloocl eurollnnt ae % of .eo. sehool enrollmot           14            15 a             12 /b        14           20
Adult lit rlt y rate 7                                                     91      k        70 /f,       33 /         99 _f
HOUSING
Av-rogo No of pareore per rooe (urbol                       2.8 /at       2.7                           1.9          1.0 l.g
Perceft of oopi'd ocit- i/thout piped eater                  88 I          ao 80 f          ..           64 as         5t
Aooee     to electricIty (ae % of total populatio)          28            50               17           41 /ah
Peroent of rural popuhltion coauected to electricity         12            30               13           18 ieb
COYSUYPTION
Radio roc-lvece par 1000 population                          32           128 /f            83 /b       107 /b       658 /b
Peaese er core par 1000 populatioa                          0.4             2 h              7 Ef         4          117 /
El.ctri' poeer conunption (keh p.c.)                         71           392 86           164L         304 Lb     3,909 /b
flresprlrt ota-ueptio  p.c. kg per year                     1.8           3.7 &            1. 5         2.2 /b      19.6 /b
Notes   PiRurte rofor either tO the latest Period# r tO           aicft of    nviroaentel temerature, body l ight.. and
rhe lteet y.ar.    Lateet pertoda re fer t principle to           deitrib.tLan by ag. and se. of ntionI populatien.
the Yeare 1956-60 or 1966-70; the lateet yearo La prin-       /6  Protein tetadord. (reqolreroet.) for all ooatria. as ..tab-
ciple to 1960 ed 1970.                                            lished by USDA H.oa0n   Racear.h Sfrvit  provide for a intr;e,
/LI The Per Capital 0NP eatierte 1 at market prices for           allowasncr of 60  r-ac of total protein par day, and 20 gram. of
years other than 1960.  alculsted by the same converson       etial  ad pulsa protein   of ehich 10 grms ahould be animal
techoique ee the 1972 World Bank Atle..                       proUtn.   Th.ee atandard; vt  aonhat ltar than th-." of 73
/2  Averege number of daughtora par vremn of reproductive         gr.   of total protein and 23 gr     of soia I protein *- so
age.                                                          areag for th     -Iorld, propoeed by FAO In the Third World Pood
/3  Populetion grwth rates are far the decade ..nding i           Survey.
1960 sod 1970.                                            IZ Sm    etr.dtes hay  uggested that cruda death rates of ohildren
/4 Ratio of pop,lation uoder 15 sod 65 sd over to popla-           We I through 4 nay bh ued a. a firat approtnattion lodex of
tion of oges 15-64 tot ago dpetndency ratio nd to labor       Ialntrition.
forca of aea 13-64 for e    =onic depende.y rato.         /   Prcanta4p   anrolled of -orrespopdiog popultton of echool age
L   PAO reference etndrd. represont phyeiological ro-             as def   d for each country.
quirenonte for no.rel activity sd health, taking
/n  Conpnted by applyiog to the 1970 fiture the groeth rate of GNP per Capitt in real termn froe 1960 to 1970; /b 1972;
/o 1962; /d 1965-70 UN estimate; /I Derived fro, Sanple Survey e*tinrtea (240,000 p.re.n.). eatluding 17 ..etern prov-
in.e.     f 1971; /,g 1968; Lht 1965-67;   L   1960-72;  LI Seoul city *nd omnicipalities of 5,000 or noae
iobabittnte;  Lk  Over 10,000 population;  L  Admintstrativ  center. of provioeo and dietricte ("Vilayet" nd "Ease'
L enter);  /r  Citiee ("Shi") having 30,000 or -   t inhabitant.;  &  1950-55;  L  1964-Jue. 1974; /n   86 Percent
b.ing IUD.; /a   DEployed labor force;  LI 15 yar- end wvar; a     Wage and eal.r  icnaoi  of hOueeholda;
It  Houneholds;  L  Urban only;   L  Dieposabla Income;      M ember of the rLiater not a11 rorking n th   cuntry;
-   Including aesittant nurser and aidrIvee; /I  1969;      E Eatate;  /jg  1964-66;  /b   DOts on vocational ducatton
refer to publit achooles*d Inoode. technical educ tion at the poet-seacndary lvel;    't   Definition unknon;
Led Pereone six ye-ar old and over vho tall the c-n.u taker that they cm rend *nd write;    L     Dat refer to households
/P, Water piped iroide; /&    Ineldd or outeid.   lh  Pa Prcentage of dralllne  bith electric lighting; /i 1964;
1955-60; /ak     Too ysrs sod over.
0    epA0 hb. beeN oslcted aa *n objective country due to the Stimlarity of the preaset Korean *conomic atructor. to that
of Japac Go the aid-fifties (eith the sem principal retourct be.., t     affiniot. i.ndcstrious, cheap lbbor *nd heavy
relione on inpored rv esterile). Maoreov r, airiulture, tran.port, and other sectors of the aconoy have      inilar
characneristtica  Korea aleO ho, to itt long-Tae- PI.. (1972-81). a pattern of induotrial deelop-nat rhich Le not
very different froe thb ooe Jopen pure..d vith oreat g crce  in the  totie.
R4 February 24. 1975



ANNEX I
P.g. 2 of 3 pages
ECiLICIC D9yVL0,9mT DATA SHUT
(vnt. 1. .*illime of U.S. dollar.)
Actual                    ~~~~~~~Projeed            1960-    1965-   1970-     1973-
i~~  J.2i1    jjZ~~~~~    19-73        l2           122        1963    J.!k..  W22..     1979     1.2       17       1f
UTIMIA Acmwn                           ~~~~~~3-Year Arre.. at1I-9    rc    & Zxchs.fte Rate.-             Aversac A..uml Grc.th Rate           A. Percent of COY
Cree. Dsmat,n Pr.doeKt               -     3,167.6    4,343.0     7,252.0     9,760.8     11,766.2     16,306.2      6.5    10.8      10.2     8.9     100.2    100.1     101.6
Teed d.)M6_ 6                     I4                    -142.2       -318.7       DI4     ,                                      0 2'.     .1      -1.6
Oe.Dommt1n   I-mee          ~           1TT         ,1.           0         9,618.6    11475        IT,b4.8       6.5    10.9       9.6     8.9     100.0    10.       100
laq-t. (i-ja. WFS)                           337.3      548.1.    2,142.5      2,766.7     3,511.7      4,499.0    10.2     31.2     10.4      8.5      10.7     29.6      28.0
oraqea   iletc.eti113.1                                 302.5     1,301.7      2,536,0     3,395.0      4,566.0    21.7     34.0     2l.      10.3       3. 6    18.0      260 
R-    -.er  G.a                             -224.2     -.24 5.9    -8640.8      -230.7      -116.7?        87.0      1.1    29.0    -33.0        -      -7.1    -11.6       0.4,
Cin,a,tta. Expaedit.,ee                    3,075.5    3,862.3     5,926.2      7,726.9     9,242.5     12,355.0     4.6      9.0       9.3     8.2      97.3      81.8     77.0
o.-'..'m    (l-d. atask&)                    309.7      702.6     2,158.0     2,190.5      2.321.S      3.633.3    17.9     25.5       1,3     8.8       9.8     29.8      22.6
0't.o  Lennege                    ~~~~~~~~85.5  656.7  1,317.2     1 .959.8     2, 204. 8   3,700.3     40.0     23.2     10.8     11.2       2.7     18.2      23.0
eati-nl SanlgaS                              39.9       663.2     1,503.1     2,024.8      2,164.9      3,467.5     15.0    15.7      7.8      94       1.        09       2.
W      D&ISFL IhK                                               AnulDt       tCretPIce.                                                                    A, P-rent of Total
C.ptt.1 Go-da                                 70.0        73.0      590.0      1,148.0      1,527.0     2,470.0      0.8    51.4      21.0    13.6      16.3      29.6     24.2
lm,tedlae. Gaods (exanl. feele)               90.0      110.3       454.0      1,477.9     2,026.0      3.08.0.0    4.1     29.5     38.0     12.9      21.0     20.4      29.9
Pee. an   Lelated N8aia1a                    31.0        31.0       136.0       387.0      1,307.0     2.138,0      0.0    3.4.5     37.0     33.0       7.2      6.8      20.9
of *tch: Fot"lew                ~~28.0      29 0       133.0        380.0     1,287.0      2,096.0      0.6    35.5      57.0    33.0      (6.5)     (6.7)   (20.5)
c2mgmt la 222k                   ~~238.0     243 Q        521.0     1,228.0     L12,65       2,60        2,.4    28.7     14.2     13.0      55.      43I, 0   .1
Tote1 H.tmdse Lmort        (elf)            -429,0A     457.0     1,982.0      4,20.       6,1.        1,2.0         13     3.4       26.7    15.8     100.0     100.0    100.0
Prl.ary P-adant   (eaCh. feels)               37.0       64.0       131.0        314.0       337.0        562.4     11.6    15.4      20.6     2.4      67.2      14.9      644
hue1. an   BElated ftenia18                    3.0         2.0        9.0         55.0        43.0         70.0     -7.8    35.1      36.7     4.1       5.4       1.0      0.8
of bA,ln:   Pa trleme- -                                               -           -            -         -              -        -        -                       -        -
"Op.lactecod Ga"s                 ~15.0      109.0       738.0     2,843.0      4.336,0     7,878.6     48.7     46,8     42,5     18.5     27.3     _&         94.8
Tard  M"clh~affa. ZagQrta (feb)               55.0       175.0      $87.0      3,212.0     4,716.0      0.311,0     26.2    38.6      40.0    17.2     100.0     100.0    Tm-.6
Tour-a.ud Sn-d- Trad*"                                     5.0       34.0        234.0       290.0        330.0       ..    46.5      50.4     5.1
IlrhadarTed         adnaA-era. 1967-69 -100
Ptot Pro     Iade.                          189.2        87.5      1.0           50.0       169.0        215.0    -0.5      2.7       8.5     6.2
lagort Prito lade                            104.0       103.0      100.0        153.0       195.0        237.0    -0.1     -0.5       8.9     7.6
Tc.-  of Trade Inda.                          85.0        64.9      100.0         98.0        86.7         90.7     -0.5     3.4      -5.0    -1.3
toPort OoI,    Isd".                          13.6        36.9      153.6        324.3       406,4        542.9     22.0    33.0      16.1     9.0
VALUE ADD00 mY 85010                                   Annual Data at 1967-69 Price. 6 ENch-a. Rate.
Aarlc-lt-re                                1,303,4     1,684.0    2,025.2      2,226.5     2,431.4      2,832.3      5.3      3.8      3.7      4.1     45.0      31.0      20.0
lad-cery end hieig                           311.2      540.0     1,318.5      2,241.6     3,000.7      4,556.9     11.7    19.7      17.8    12.5      10.0      20.0     33.0
0Scrvoc                                    1,306.1     1.715,0    3141L.0      4,249.1     4.873,9      6.632,0      5       13.0      9.1              45.,2     49.0     4.
Tonal                                      2,920.7     2,939.0    6.505,7      8,717.2     10,306.0    14,021.2      6.1     10.5      9.6     00.0    100.0     100.0     100.0
Curren   -tecpta                             388.4       394.6    1,212,1      1,202.4      1,695.4     2,990.3      0.3     25.2      7.0     16.4     13.0      19.0      18.0
Current Zoaandltecea             ~~~~~421,2   374.2      883.2      1,010.0     1,295.5      2.491,9     -2.4    18.8       7.9    16,3      14.0      14.0      15.0
Sudnetory SeeIng.                ~~~~~~-32.9  20.4       328.9        192.4       399.9        498.4             73 0       3.9    17.2      .1.0       5.0       3.0
046cr Public S.ot.r 36.1age                   16.         49.7  .   168.5           .....                           24.0'    27.0       ..       ..       1.0      3.0       2.0
P.61cc Screen 0noa.~~~~.t        108.2:      15.        4726         36.0         510         747.6      8.9     23.2      3.9     12.7      4.0       7.0       4.0
DETAIL ONI                    At 1967-69 Prlcoc   A. Percen t of Total
cg,yt -Tou DltTAILS                            A      1tua       191          192          at.           PUBLIC  UCTOk'                Plan       Plan       Pl.n       Plan
'A, I Tota C.ort tese-d.).2S                                90        171           92          1973          INVESTh4Df  PROGR8AM       (1967-71)   (1973-81) (1967-712   (1973-81),
Edvo-t le                                     15.0        11.0        17.0        16.0         16.0          So-ia  Sentomr.0                317      5,116       29.0       42.0
0Ocr- S-i.1e  S-tt..e                         10.0        14,0        11.0        14.0         15.0          Agninult-r                       64      2.835        6.0       23.0
Aa--cut-r                                     10.0         9.0        8.0          5.0          7.0          MIning and   anu fact-rIng       92      1.064        0.0        9.0
Oth.r Econiel   Sacci...                      19.0        16.0        19.0        20.0         16.0          POtoe                            26*                  2.0
Ad-tiatratioft an   Defene                    36.0        37,0       28.0         27.0         29.0          Tr-opOt and
3th-r                                         10,0         9.0        18.0        18,0         17,o            Colcetions                    479      3,167       43.0       26.0
Total Current topendit-re                    100.0       100.0       100.0       100o.0       100.0         QDth-                            129          51      12.0       ,,
Tot.l                         1,107      12,233      100.0      100.0
0E1.tCtED INDIC6206                                        1960-      1965-        1970-         1973-         Llm6mI     -1
1965       1970        1975          1979          PublIc S-vOn.                 1.481           .      69,0
Arer,,,, ICOR                                              2.2         2,4         2.8           2.8           Progra  Aid                     4,85          .      22.0
Segot   ' Itatclp'1.6                                                  2.8         1.1           1.0           Foreign  Mtr-rsing (Nat)         61.                  3.0
pt-er -in DoIstio lanieg   Rate                            0.30        0.30        0.22          0 21           ontonrotn           Nt       .A1.                  ...     ~    ..
Marginal NatiIoa   Oarin. Late                             0.29        0.20        0.09          0.251          oa                            ,4                    0.
=     F:Q 06  AND1                                              Total Labor F...o.                         Value Added Per Worker (1967-69 PrIce. 4 Ench. Rate.)
~~,tp.jr lu ceop.m  In SlIlIlona         I of Total          1960-70          In U.S. Dollar.        X of Avarates       1960-701960-7
IIO6       L  -      196.2197            Crwth6 late          1960      1970       190        1970   Cr00th Rate
Aoriculcc-                                       4.6        4,8        66         51          0.4              282       419         68         62       4.0
Indoatry                            ~~~~       ~~~~        ~    ~   ~~0.5  1.3  7  13  10.1       563        986        135       145        5.8
Servitra                     1,9  ~~~~~~~~~~~~     jj        ,,,~~~~-2    6.1              701       93         169        137j      2.8
Total                               ~~~~       ~~~~      ~~~~~7.0  9.6  100  100  3.1             416        682        100       100        5.8
-ot applcable                            A   1962                             d/  Fi..al Flan
.'."j!t                                                             ./~~41CetalGoenmnta  Ocead on thi'n-y-a average
iandf  d aeLeeit    SecorsOffIcial (EPB)                                      P/  1973 is included
Ittoluded in Social gaotnfl                              jI  In~~Tclude, current tranatera (net)



A~~ -A
Z     t     ' S 4 8 
!2 v3'-       1    '  l  j 
sQe^  -|2     |     DS;, 
't ^  114'       @t-         sS
Ns  2WI g  -sp  $ -o-  fsqo
tto -W1ee ^*t t @ PM
t ^ --W1 r<op iTt1 2
nrg, ~~ 3sbl s "p -@ ^bs | snn:.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
K OREA
TIE STAViS OF BANK GROUP OIERATIONS IN T0E REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A.   Statement of Bank Loaeus and IDA Credits (as at January 31, 1975)
Loan or                                                    US$ Million
Credit                                              Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year      Borrower         Purpose        Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
Five loans and credits fully disbursed              24.7     39.7
600       1969  ADC               Irrigation        45.0                8.0
151       1969  Republic of      Education                   14.8       3.3
Korea
669       1970  Republic of       Railways          40.0                2.9
Koreea
234       1971. Republic of.      Livestock                   7.0        .4
Korea
735       1971  KDFC              Dev. Fill. Co.    30.0                1.3
769       1971  Republic of       ilighways         54.5                1.4
KP rea
283       1972  Republic of       Irrigation                 15.0       7.8
Korea
795       1972  ADC               Irrigation        33.0               32.4
335       1972  Republic of       Agricultural Cr.            10.5      3.9
Korea
863       1972  Republic of       Railways          40.0               18.3
Korea
905       1973  r.DF(C            Dev. Fin. Co.     40.0               11.6
906 &     1973  Republic of       I ducation II     23.0      20.0     42.8
394            Khrea
917       1973  Republic of       Ports             80.0               77.9
Korea
942       1973  Republic of       Seeds Production   7.0                6.9
Korea
953       1974  Republic of       Tourissm          25.0               25.0
Korea
956       1974  Republi.c of      High-iways II     47.0               34.2
Korea
994 a-    1974 AIIDC              Agriculture       13.0               13.0
1070 la    1975  Republic of       Secondary Cities  15.0               15.0
K<orea
Total                                         517.2    107.0     306.1
of which has been repaid                     11.8      0.3
Total now outstanding                         505.4    106.7
Amount sold                     2.0
of which has been repaid      0.8             1.2
Total now held by Bank and
IDA (prior to exchange adjust-ment)         504.2    106.7
Total undisbursed                             270.8     35.3     306.1
/a  Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at January 31, 1975)
Amount in US$ million
Year     Oblizor                 Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
1968     KDFC                 Development financing       -       0.7     0.7
1969     Honam Silk Co.       Textiles                   1.4      0.3      1.7
1970     Atlas Paper Co.      Pulp and paper             4.5      0.5     5.0*
1971     Korea Investment     Capital market              -       007     0.7
and Finance Corp.    development
1973     KDFC                 Development Financing       -       0.4     0.4
1974     Gold Star & Co.      Electronic Products       16.0      1.3    17.3
Ltd.
1974     Korea Investment     Capital market              -       0.3      0.3
and Finance Corp.    development
Total gross commitment                      21.9      4.2    26.1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                       9.6      0.5    10.1
Total commitments now held by IFC           12.3      3.7    16.0
Total undisbursed                                             8.9
* Cancelled at the request of the Company



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -
Loan No. 600        Pyongtaek-Kumgang Irrigation Prolect; US$45.0 million
Loan of May 23, 1969; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The Project includes irrigation for about 35,000 ha, improvement
of drainage and roads, consolidation of paddy fields, benching of upland and
tidal land reclamation. Construction was delayed by a reorganization of the
executing agency and a delay in hiring consultants. The major project com-
ponents (two sea dikes, the main distribution system and pumping plants)
were largely completed by the end of 1974. Contracts for nearly all of the
remaining work have been awarded. Cost considerations have led to the exclu-
sion of about 5,000 ha of land from the project. Costs have risen from US$90
million at appraisal to about US$130 million largely because of the increased
costs of right-of-way, engineering, administration and land consolidation.
Preliminary estimates indicate increases in the price of rice will partially
offset the effects of higher costs and reduced irrigable area. The economic
rate of return is now estimated to be about 10 percent, compared with the
appraisal estimate of 14 percent. The implementing agency (ADC) has re-
viewed ways of economizing on the remaining work which should lead to some
marginal cost savings. About 82 percent of the Loan has been disbursed.
Construction is progressing satisfactorily and is scheduled for completion
by mid-1976.
Credit No. 151      First Education Project; US$14.8 million Credit
of June 4, 1969; Closing Date: December 31. 1975
This Project comprises: (a) the expansion and equipping of 27
technical, commercial and agricultural high schools, 5 post-secondary
higher schools and 4 university teacher training departments; and (b) 26
man-years of technical assistance and 20 man-years of overseas fellowships
to support the development of agricultural and technical education. Project
implementation, which was slow at commencement, has improved and the project
is now 12 months behind schedule compared with the 15 months delay estimated
a year ago. All civil works, furniture procurement, technical assistance
and fellowships have been completed; 70 percent of the equipment has been
procured and the remainder is expected to be delivered during 1975. The
Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by the present Closing Date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Loan No. 669        Third Railway Project; US$40.0 million Loan and
Credit No. 183      US$15.0 million Credit of May 14, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1975
The bulk of the Loan and Credit was earmarked for the purchase of
freight cars, diesel locomotives, and telecommunications and track mainte-
nance equipment. Progress is generally satisfactory except for delays in
the procurement of some microwave equipment which has been re-tendered.
Credit No. 234      Integrated Dairy Beef Development Project;
US$7.0 million Credit of February 11, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The development of about 700 small and medium-sized dairy farms
by providing long-term loans and the construction and operation of two
dairy products processing plants are the principal components of the
Project which also includes the provision of management and technical
services. Project execution has been satisfactory. To date, about 591
farmers have participated and farm loans of about US$4.5 million equivalent
have been approved. About 4,900 head of cattle have been purchased and two
dairy plants have been constructed and are in operation. The proceeds of
the Credit, except those earmarked for technical services, are expected
to be fully committed by the end of this month.
Loan No. 735        Third Korea Development Finance Corporation Project,
US$30 million Loan of May 14, 1971; Closing Date:
August 31, 1975
The Project is progressing satisfactorily. The Loan is fully
committed.
Loan No. 769        First Highway Project; US$54.5 million Loan of
June 29, 1971; Closing Date: November 30, 1975
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December, 1973,
at a final cost about five percent above the appraisal estimate. Feasi-
bility studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km
and 900 km of national highways, respectively. A study of road maintenance
and the establishment of a pilot maintenance organization formed the basis
of the creation of a country-wide Highway Maintenance Organization which is
being carried out under the Second Highway Project.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
Loan No. 795        Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; US$33.0 million Loan
Credit No. 283      and US$15.0 million Credit of February 2, 1972; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
This Project aims at transforming an area with the highest drought
frequency in Korea into one with year-round irrigation and crop diversifica-
tion. Also, there will be increased production of high value crops such as
fruits and winter vegetables. Design work is proceeding satisfactorily and
the work on four dams, the main canals and land consolidation has started.
Award of the three remaining major contracts anticipated for canals and land
consolidation will be delayed until next summer, with construction to start
after the rice harvest, i.e. roughly a year later than scheduled at appraisal.
The delay was caused mainly by financial difficulties attributed to price
escalation and design modification. The cost increases will be partially
compensated for by benefits attributable to the enlargement of the area to
be irrigated by about 1,400 ha.
Credit No. 335      Agricultural Credit Project:   US$10.5 million
Credit of September 29, 1972; Closing Date:
September 1, 1976
The Credit supports a three year lending program to small farmers
to develop orchards, sericulture and mushroom production and to encourage
the breeding of poultry and swine. It also finances an organizational and
accounting study of the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF)
and the strengthening of its training facilities. The Project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and its disbursement is proceeding on schedule.
Loan No. 863        Fourth Railway Project; US$40.0 million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The main elements of the Project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; about 90 percent of the Loan pro-
ceeds have been committed.
Loan No. 905        Fourth KDFC Project; US$40.0 million Loan of June 13,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Loan No. 906        Second Education Project; US$23.0 million Loan and
Credit No. 394      US$20.0 million Credit of June 13, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The Project provides equipment for and extensions to the buildings
of: 18 technical and 14 agricultural high schools; ten higher schools/junior
colleges for industrial, agricultural, fishery and nursing training; colleges
of agriculture, engineering and natural sciences in nine universities and a
merchant marine college; and ten junior teacher colleges and 12 colleges of
education. It also includes pre-investment studies on health and management
education. Project implementation has improved and is now six months behind
schedule compared with nine months a year ago. Construction and equipment
procurement are proceeding satisfactorily. Cost overruns on civil works,
to be financed by the Government, are expected to be large due to the recent
sharp increase in building construction costs. It is expected that the Proj-
ect will be completed on schedule.
Loan No. 917        Ports Project; US$80 million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project includes the provision of container and bulk cargo
facilities and equipment at Busan and coal piers and handling equipment
at Busan and Mukho. Some contracts for dredging and pier construction
have been awarded. The design-work and preparation of tender documents
for the remaining items are proceeding satisfactorily. Revised cost
estimates show an increase of about 30 percent over appraisal estimates.
A Phase II Port Development Study and consultants' services in connection
with the establishment of a "Korean Port Authority" are proceeding satis-
factorily.
Loan No. 942         Seeds Project; US$7.0 million Loan of November 16,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed produc-
tion; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation of
a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irrigation
and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The Office of Seed Pro-
duction and Distribution was established in November, 1974. The Government
is finalizing a contract for consultant's services.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Loan No. 953        Kyongju Tourism Project; US$25.0 million Loan of
January 4. 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multi-purpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or re-
alignment of about 57 kma of roads; infrastructure including storm water
drainage, environmental sanitation, community facilities, a golf course, a
school for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the devel-
opment of tourism on Cheju Island. The Loan was declared effective on May 6,
1974. Final design for almost all Project components is complete and the
first four contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 956         Second Highway Project; US$47.0 million Loan of
January 25, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project, which forms part of the Government's 1972-76 road
construction and paving program, consists of the construction, chiefly on
new alignments, of about 130 kms of highways; feasibility studies by con-
sultants of about 1,000 kms of national and provincial roads, followed by
detailed engineering where justified; and the procurement of highway main-
tenance and workshop equipment for the extension of a new highway mainte-
nance program from a pilot province to the remainder of the country. All
construction and paving contracts have been awarded.
Loan No. 994         Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
US$13.0 million Loan of June 7. 1974; Closin& Date:
June 30, 1979
The Project aims at integrating the on-farm production of com-
mercial crops for export with efficient hygienic processing facilities
using land that is presently idle or underutilized. It comprises (i)
on-farm development of asparagus, oak mushrooms and mushrooms; (ii) con-
struction of and improvements to facilities to process asparagus, oak
mushrooms, mushrooms and fruits; and (iii) technical assistance including
training of staff, services of consultants, etc. The terminal date for
effectiveness of the Loan has been extended to April 15, 1975, to provide
additional time for recruiting a Project Manager. The selection of a
proposed Project Manager has been approved and, consequently, the Loan
will be declared effective shortly.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Loan No. 1970       Secondary Cities Regional Project; US$15.0 million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The principal aims of the Project are the establishment of an or-
ganizational framework for regional investment, planning and development and
to improve working and living conditions in the secondary cities of the less
developed Gwangju region. The main elements of the Project are: (i) housing
sites and services in the cities of Yeosu, Mogpo and Gwangju (370,384 m2);
(ii) a fishery harbor complex with industrial processing zone (215,385 mi)
in Yeosu; (iii) a city market in Suncheon City (33,160 m2); and (iv) access
roads i Yeosu and Mogpo (6.61 km). It also provides technical assistance
to strengthen regional planning and development, to improve the utilization
of existing water supply systems in the four cities, to assist the manage-
ment and operation of the fishery complex and to carry out feasibility
studies of project proposals identified under the UNDP-financed Phase II
Regional Study.



ANNEX III
Page   1
KOREA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Republic of Korea
Amount:        $22.5 million equivalent
Terms:         The proposed Loan would be repayable in 25 years (including
a seven year grace period) with interest at 8-1/2 percent
per annum.
Description of
the Project:   The proposed project would include:
No. of
New
Grades Student Places
(a)  construction and equipment of a new
technical high school;                        10-12       1,980
(b)  equipment and extension of buildings for
three agricultural junior colleges;           13-14         600
(c)  equipment and enlargement of buildings
for:
(i)  one fisheries college;                   13-16         180
(ii)  three fisheries high schools; and        10-12       1,080
(iii) equipment for one merchant marine
junior college;                          13-14         640
(d) construction and equipment of seven
new vocational training institutes; and         -         2,520
(e) financing of engineering and technical services required for
the preparation of future education projects.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Project Cost:
Korean Won (Million)    US Dollars (Thousand)
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
Ministry of Education
Mechanical Technical
High School (one)      617  1,436   2,053    1,272  2,960     4,232
Agricultural Junior
College (three)        784    636   1,420    1,617  1,312     2,929
Fisheries College
(one)                 556     777   1,333    1,146  1,603    2,749
Fisheries High
Schools (three)        463    670   1,133      955  1,382     2,337
Marine Junior
College                67     379     446      138    782      920
Technical Assistance       44    214     258       91    440       531
Sub-total           2,531   4,112   6,643    5,219  8,479    13,698
Office of Labor Affairs
Vocational Training
Institutes (seven)  3,251   3,945   7,196    6,703  6,133    14,886
Base Cost
Estimate             5,782  8,057  13,833   11,922 16,612    28,534
Physical contin-
gencies (10.0%)       578     806   1,384    1,192  1,661    2,853
Price contingencies
(27.1%)             1,781  1,964    3,745    3,672  4,050    7,722
Total, including
contingencies       8,141 10,827   18,968   16,786 22,323    39,109



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing Plan:
------$ (Million) -
% Bank
Government    Bank    Total    Financing
A.   Ministry of Education items        5.2        8.7    13.9         63
Contingencies                      2.1        2.7     4.8         56
Sub-total                         7.3       11.4    18.7         61
B.   Office of Labor Affairs items      6.6        8.4    15.0         56
Contingencies                      2.7        2.7     5.4         50
Sub-total                         9.3       11.1    20.4         54
Total                            16.6       22.5    39.1         58
The recurrent expenditure generated by this project would amount to about
0.7 billion Won p.a. for the Ministry of Education and 0.6 billion Won p.a.
for the Office of Labor Affairs in 1974 prices, or about 1% and 6% of
their budgeted total recurrent expenditures in 1973 and 1974, respectively.
Procurement Arrangements:
Both project units would work closely with the Office of Supply,
Republic of Korea (OSROK) which coordinates procurement activities. Con-
tracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
following domestic advertising in accordance with local procedures, which
are satisfactory to the Bank, since (a) all the civil works contracts in
the first and second education projects have been awarded to local building
contractors and no foriegn firms, although allowed to, have submitted bids
and (b) there is an efficient and competitive construction industry in
Korea. Therefore, it is expected that all of the civil works contracts
would be awarded to local contractors. Furniture and equipment contracts
estimated to cost over $50,000 would be awarded following international
competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits. Although most of the equipment contracts
are likely to be awarded to foreign suppliers, domestic producers are
becoming competitive in selected lines of manufacture.   Most of the equip-
ment to be procured consists of inexpensive items (i.e. with unit costs less
than $1,000) to be distributed to dispersed locations.   Furniture and equip-
ment items that cannot be grouped in packages of at least $50,000 with unit
costs less than $5,000 would be procured without prior Bank approval on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
local procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. It is expected that
all furniture and 20 percent of the equipment would be procured on this
basis. Foreign suppliers are not prevented from submitting bids under
local procurement procedures. Suitably qualified domestic manufacturers



ANNEX III
Page 4
would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent, or the existing
customs duty, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing imports.
Customs duties on most of the items to be procured under the proposed
project exceed 15 percent.
Estimated Disbursements:
($ million)
(Bank Fiscal Year)                     77     77      78     79
Annual                                   1.0    9.2    8.5    3.8
Cumulative                               1.0   10.2   18.7   22.5
Technical and
Engineering Services:    For the preparation of future projects; to be
conducted by consultants satisfactory to the Bank.
Appraisal Report No.:    601a-KO dated March 6, 1975.






______________________________                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD  11249
t  -vUSSRI?,'^  ;.;           129'        30FE7MBER 1974
S  __     ~~~~~~N O R T H  K O R E AI
- N. KOREA         NOT        KR                                st
C KOREA 
Seoa '  3C Sea                                                                3 8 '  I  -
'as/   PociJpa   Orea-
Ch,n K Seo                                                        East Sea
125-           12 I'1s       .  ,, tFrjlL  r I r  _
Ure;U/c.......... w1. ... ... 1...:1 /.z|
ast  Paci   owficSOcean
CA,00 Sea  -I          K-.~~~~~~~~~~0
FQ ,'llIL;.'E(DIA                    CITY
-35-                      .              H -'  ie
''N,,L,,.I ,,.,  '.N '  , A  '  A  ',
-A ~ ~ ~  ~   ~  ~   ~   OE
, Cltrrl.E:rX ' S  \ 
THRDEUCTONPOJC
'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~E1 .1         -7EAr  7'N  /
I   I  Cii   -S           E
t.N.T-IC ITT  - MECHANICA   EH IA   IHSH O
Ye//ow  Sea  ,UE .. SCHO;ILS
\~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~OFC  01 LABO  A-ARUMOIljINTlUI
-~~~~~~       .31,01 ~ ~ ~~10 IN IL   O ND E
i E  f              I     I' I        I' ,,  oL ,.
A- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ IE
36'~~~~~~~~~~ -) ,El NtIJ             K    \
125-  l2e  127r        128/ 1-          9 
j  cC                            I  -E
f^>Jn  L),<   <4,2r<   Rt~4(.   K RA'
- ~ ~ ~ -/   ,  6             'A->  *.-  AGc- c LrA  )wIRCIFE
--     .I                        *   rS N E C>   SC lA  eJAI   CIG I
34- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~N~  -   -N       -j                  5
S~~~~                   ~ .       = '-  =  I( NXr  :loNA E 
_ J               o,   20 j  tv S0 (0   80   ID0
rII I'        yj



