Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22076
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25410)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.7 MILLION (US$12 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
RWANDA
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 31, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 2000)
Currency Unit = Rwanda francs (RWF)
RWF 100 = US$ 0.28
US$ 1 = RWF 359
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCR          Banque Commerciale de Rwanda
BK           Banque de Kigali
BNR          Banque Nationale du Rwanda (Central Bank)
BRD          Banque Rwandaise de Developpement
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
FSAC         Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
IMF          International Monetary Fund
PFI          Participating Financial Intermediaries
PSSF         Private Sector Support Fund
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
RIPA         Rwanda Investment Promotion Agency
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
UBPR         Popular Banks Union (Union de Banques Populaires du Rwanda)
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:   Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader:    Aubert Zohore/Charles Schlumberger



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
PRIVATE SECIrOR
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    11
6. Sustainability                                                                        12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       18
9. Partner Comnments                                                                     20
10. Additional Information                                                               20
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    21
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                        29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P002262                                        Project Name: PRIVATE SECTOR
Team Leader: Aubert Zohore                                |TL Unit: AFTITR
ICR Type.- Core ICR                                        Report Date: Mai, 31, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PRIVATE SECTOR                                  L/C/TFNumber: IDA-25410
Country/Department: RWANDA                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: DB - Business Environment
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/15/1991                               Effective: 12/09/1993          06/09/1995
Appraisal:  05/14/1992                                 MTR: 05/01/1996
Approval:  09/09/1993                                Closing: 06/30/1999          09/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                          E. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Emmanuel Mbi                                F. Aguirre-Sacasa
Sector Manager:      Demba Ba                                    Michael N. Sarris
Team Leader at ICR:   Aubert Zohore and Charles                  Iradj Alikhani
Schlumberger
ICR Primary Author:   Thorsten Beck
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory. S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, LN=Un&ikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Qualitv at Entry
3.] Original Objective:
The Private Sector Development Project was approved by the Board on September 9, 1993, for a
credit amount of SDR 8.7 million (US$12 million equivalent). Shortlv after credit approval, a
civil war and genocide broke out between Rwanda's two major ethnic factions. One million
people died and three million were displaced, moving into neighboring countries. This event had a



devastating effect on the country's population, institutions and economy, an effect from which it is
still recovering. Activities under the project were profoundly affected by the genocide and its
aftermath. The Credit became effective after the genocide, on June 9, 1995. The original objective
of the project was "to promote the rapid expansion of the private sector as the key element in a
development strategy for growth and diversification." The project aimed "to provide the private
sector with both the incentives and the means to engage in labor-intensive, export-oriented
activities in an environment where local and foreign entrepreneurs can operate within a free
market economy." The project included an apex line of credit, a matching grant facility for
consulting services and training programs and institutional support to the Ministry of Commerce
and Industry, the Tribunal of Commerce and the Central Bank (Banque Nationale du Rwanda,
BNR).
The project had ambitious objectives. It was one of the first private sector development projects
in the region that went beyond lines of credit and was so very innovative at the time of appraisal.
It addressed the major impediments of private sector development in Rwanda. It was consistent
with the Government's economic liberalization program being implemented at the time, as stated
in its Statement of Private Sector Development Policy, and the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) June 1992. However, the project was complex and demanding for the Borrower,
given its limited implementation capacity, even before the war. The agenda was very broad and a
more focused approach, especially in the reform agenda, would have been desirable. This was
especially true after the war, where the focus needed to be on reconstruction activities.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Due to the civil war and genocide of 1994, the project was declared effective 21 months after
approval by the Board. After the war and genocide there were intensive discussions within the
Bank about whether to proceed with the project and how. A conscious decision to proceed with
the project was taken, given the importance of a strong and efficient private sector in the
reconstruction of the country. The Government and the Bank examined whether the project had
to be formally restructured and concluded that there would not be a need to change its objectives
and scope, as these were very general. Therefore, the original objectives did not change.
However, the activities under the project were adjusted and emphasis was put on those that
supported reconstruction.
3.3 Original Components:
The original components, as described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) and spelled out in the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) were the following:
(a)   an Apex Line of Credit (SDR 5 million) to finance, through eligible Participating Financial
Intermediaries (PFI), the foreign exchange and local currency component of investment
for new and existing enterprises;
(b)   a Matching Grant Facility (SDR 1.8 million), the Private Sector Support Fund (PSSF),
that would co-finance consultant services selected by private promoters and organize
specialized training programs (SDR 1.1 million would go to the co-financing of consultant
-2 -



services and SDR 0.7 million to financing training programs and operating costs); and
(c)   an Institutional Strengthening Component (SDR 1.4 million) to finance expert assistance,
training, and automation and office equipment to ensure that the implementing agencies
had the means to realize the agreed strategy (the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
would receive SDR 0.7 million, a new Tribunal of Conimerce would receive SDR 0.5
million, and BNR would receive SDR 0.2 million).
The project components were directly linked to the project objectives. The line of credit
supported investment financing for the private sector and thus aimed to give the private sector the
necessary resources. The PSSF aimed at ensuring access to managerial and technical support for
the private sector. The institutional strengthening of the Tribunal of Commerce, BNR and the
Ministry of Commerce, together with legal and regulatory reforms formulated as dated covenants,
aimed at providing the private sector with the incentives to engage in labor-intensive and
export-oriented activities, and at strengthening the free market economy.
The different components were also linked to specific policy reforms. The implementation of the
line of credit was linked to the settlement of claims of the banking sector on a credit guarantee
fund and to the tax-exemption of provisions by commercial banks for non-performing loans. The
DCA also contained several dated covenants to implement legal and regulatory changes that
would enhance private sector development.
While the Department of Monetary Policy at BNR agreed during appraisal to serve as apex
institution for the line of credit, both the PSSF and the Project Implementation Unit for the
institutional strengthening component (Cellule d'Appui au Secteur Prive) had to be set up. For
both components, technical assistance by international experts was envisioned. Previous
experience with lines of credit in Rwanda was taken into account in the design of the new line of
credit component.
3.4 Revised Components:
As noted above, the project was not formally restructured after the war, and approval by the
Executive Directors was thus not necessary. However, the project was amended several times to
reflect changing country circumstances (see Section 10). The credit documents were first
amended in December 1995 to reflect the delay in effectiveness of the credit and the post-war
conditions of Rwanda. First, actions to reform policies affecting the business environment that
were spelled out in dated covenants in the DCA and that were not the highest priority in the
imnmediate postwar period were postponed. Similarly, disbursement conditions that were
unnecessary or unrealistic were either modified or waived. Specifically, disbursement conditions
relating to the establishment of the Tribunal of Commerce were restricted to this sub-component.
Second, the percentage of expenditures paid by IDA was increased to 1 00%, in view of budgetary
constraints of the Government. Finally, the cost sharing agreement for the PSSF was changed in
favor of the beneficiaries to reflect the difficult financial situation of the private sector after the
war. In October 1997, the disbursement condition for the second component, the PSSF, was
changed. Specifically, the condition that the PSSF be initially headed by an international expert
- 3 -



was changed to the requirement that an expert be recruited to head the PSSF and an international
expert was to provide technical assistance. In February 1998, the originally unallocated funds of
SDR 430,000 were allocated to the financial sector subcomponent of the institutional
strengthening component to finance additional activities. The institutional capacity building
component was changed in August 1999. The creation of a Tribunal of Commerce was replaced
by the strengthening of a newly created Arbitration Center.  This reflected the limited
implementation capacity of the Ministry of Justice to establish the Tribunal of Commerce. The
original closing date was June 30, 1999, and the credit was extended twice, to finally close on
September 30, 2000. Through the above mentioned amendments, the Credit resources were
reallocated several times.
3.5 Quality at Entrv:
The project pre-dates the introduction of the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) process and quality
at entry was thus not evaluated. However, quality at entry can be rated satisfactory, in spite of the
identified risks. Project objectives and components were in line with the Governrment's economic
reform program at that time, which aimed at achieving macroeconomic stability, improving the
competitiveness of the economy and stimulating economic recovery, and which was supported by
an IDA adjustment credit. The project also was consistent with the CAS dated June 17, 1992,
which gave high priority to: (i) supporting the country's adjustment process; (ii) developing an
incentive structure for private sector investment; (iii) reducing the role of the state and improving
public resource management; (iv) developing human resources, building local capacity, and
alleviating poverty; and (v) fostering improved management of natural resources, while protecting
the environment. The project components were carefully designed and the PSSF, the first of its
kind in Africa, served as a model for similar programs in other African countries.
At the time of the project appraisal, policy reforms that would contribute to the success of the
project were agreed on, such as adoption of a clear and well-adapted legal and regulatory
framework, liberalization of factor, especially labor markets, a more transparent tax system with
less distortions and amelioration of export incentives. Reforms in the financial sector would
include giving BNR clear authority over banks and other financial institutions in a revised banking
law. At the moment of appraisal, the Government was also embarking on a privatization process,
supported by an IDA credit. The legal reforms (Tribunal of Commerce, etc.) would also
contribute to a more efficient financial system. However, many of the legal and regulatory
reforms were included in the form of dated covenants, which effectively de-linked them from the
project components they were supposed to support. In hindsight, one might question the wisdom
of including legal and regulatory reform conditionality in a technical assistance project instead of
linking them to a structural adjustment credit. In fact, later many of these dated covenants were
waived. Others, such as the one referring to the Labor Code, were also included in an adjustment
operation (the Economic Recovery Credit), or picked up by the IMF, such as the tax-exemption
of provisions.
The SAR identified substantial risks with the project, mainly political instability that would delay
the Government's policy reform program and slow down the process of revamping the legal and
regulatory framework, and the risk that increased military spending would lead to monetization of
the fiscal deficit undermining the Government's effort in macroeconomic stability and therefore
- 4 -



private sector development. While the risk assessment seemed reasonable at the time of appraisal,
the subsequent genocide and civil war, which were hard to anticipate at the time of project
appraisal, delayed effectiveness and implementation of the project significantly. Environmental
risks, linked to the enterprises whose investment would be financed under the line of credit, were
considered small given the size of these enterprises. Other safeguard policies were not applicable
to this project.
While the project was carefully designed to address the major impediments to private sector
development in Rwanda, in hindsight the reform agenda might have been too broad and a more
focused approach, especially in light of the reconstruction needs after the war, might have further
increased the success of the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Based on the output indicators and most of the outcome indicators, the project is rated
satisfactory. The project was implemented in a very difficult period in Rwanda and made an
important contribution to helping the country in its transition from war to peace. The project
pre-dates the introduction of the logical framework approach and therefore has to be evaluated
based on indicators developed during implementation and supervision. Annex 1 summarizes these
outcome/impact and output indicators. In spite of the ambitious objectives of the project and the
extremely adverse country circumstances after the genocide, the project had a significant positive
impact on financial and private sector development. The project: (i) provided investment
financing for private enterprises in a period in which the banking sector was recovering from the
genocide and the private sector was in desperate need of financial resources for reconstruction;
(ii) provided consultant services and training to private companies; (iii) started a process of legal
and regulatory reform and institutional strengthening and capacity building in the private sector;
and (iv) helped strengthen monetary policy formulation and regulation and supervision of the
financial sector by BNR. The ongoing dialogue with the Government and the final beneficiaries
(private enterprises), the substantial policy reform initiated in recent years, and the fact that a
follow-up project is under preparation, are further indicators of the success of this project.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Part A: Apex line of credit
The Line of Credit Component is rated satisfactory. The component achieved its objective of
providing investment financing for private enterprises in a period in which the banking sector was
recovering from the genocide and the private sector was in desperate need of financial resources
for reconstruction. The line of credit was completely committed and disbursed between July 1997
and June 1999 for a total of SDR 4.920 million. Fourteen projects with total investments of some
SDR 8 million were financed. Three banks participated in the credit line, Banque de Kigali (BK),
Banque Commerciale de Rwanda (BCR) and from 1998, Banque Rwandaise de Developpement
(BRD). The other commercial banks were not considered sufficiently sound to participate. Loans
were in general granted to medium-sized companies. The last loan repayment is due in 2010.
- 5 -



Approximately 59 percent of the resources (7 projects) were disbursed to manufacturing
enterprises, and the remaining 41 percent (7 projects) to enterprises in the service sector; 96
percent of the resources were used for projects in Kigali. Resources were used for projects in the
agro-industry and manufacturing industries, transport sector and tourism.
BNR served as apex institution and on-lent funds to eligible commercial banks and the
Development Bank. The Department of Monetary Policy of BNR managed the line of credit. The
interest rate at which the Government passed on the proceeds of the credit component in local
currency to the BNR corresponds to the weighted average over three months of the 12-month
commercial bank deposit interest rate. The rate was adjusted on a yearly basis and was positive in
real terms. The foreign exchange rate risk was borne by the Government. The BNR made credit
proceeds available to PFIs at the same rate, but retained a 1 percent fee to cover operational costs
from the interest charges repaid to the Government. The interest margin charged by the PFI has
varied between 4 and 6 percent. The interest cost to the final beneficiary varied between 14 and
16 percent and has thus been positive in real terms.
While loans of up to 13 years were eligible for refinancing under the line of credit, the average
maturity structure of around 6 years (varying between 3 and 10 years) of the refinanced loans is
considered relatively short-term, given their character as investment loans.  Many final
beneficiaries have pointed to this relatively short maturity as one of the main weaknesses of the
credit line. However, the high degree of economic and political uncertainty made it difficult for
the banking sector to finance longer maturity loans. The repayment rate for the loans is normal
for a post-crisis economy. Four of the 14 projects were experiencing arrears at the time of this
writing. Some 14 percent of the total outstanding loan portfolio were classified as loss (class 5);
another 9 percent were classified as facing difficulties (class 3 and 4). The small number of
projects, however, makes an assessment of the repayment rate difficult. Further, the low
repayment rate reflects the general difficulties of the banking sector in Rwanda in the post-war
period, both in evaluating projects and credit risk in loan recovery. The performance rating of the
portfolio also reflects the loan classification standards of BNR, which unlike many countries in the
region follows very strict standards.
A consultant report evaluating the performance and impact of the line of credit was completed in
October 2000. A total of 380 jobs were created in projects financed under the apex line of credit.
The analysis of the economic and financial impact of.the projects financed under the apex line of
credit was difficult for the consultants because: (i) most investments are very recent; and (ii) firms
lack audited financial statements.
The implementation of the line of credit was delayed after the war due to difficulties of the
commercial banks in restarting their activities and due to delays in policy reforms that were
disbursement conditions for this project component and that related to: (i) a credit guarantee fund
on which the commnercial banks had outstanding claims; and (ii) the taxation of provisions. While
the claims on the guarantee fund were settled before implementation of the line of credit, the other
part of this condition, namely, the revision of the by-laws of the fund, was waived, since the fund's
activities were effectively stopped after the war. There were also delays in introducing the
tax-exemption of the banks' provisioning for non-performing loans.
- 6 -



Part B: Private Sector Support Fund (PSSF)
The PSSF is rated marginally satisfactory. The fund met its quantitative targets, but faced
significant managerial and technical problems at the start of its activities. Furthermore, the
economic impact of its activities cannot be fully assessed. The PSSF approved a total of 119
grants for 98 beneficiaries, 25 of whom were women, and thus met its quantitative target. The
largest share of these grants was for consultant services, mainly feasibility studies. Several trips to
international market fairs and several business trips were also supported. Further, training
activities for a total of 195 persons were partly financed. There were serious problems before the
fund could start its activities due to disagreements between the Government of Rwanda and IDA
about the independence of the fund vis-a-vis the Government, the completion of the procedural
manual and the selection of the management. While it was originally agreed that an international
expert would initially be the director of the fund to allow local capacity building, IDA later agreed
that a local expert would be the director, supported by an international consultant. The selected
director, however, did not have sufficient private sector experience, and supervision missions and
a technical audit revealed deficiencies in the technical and financial management, marketing and
follow-up work of the fund. The steering committee (representatives of the beneficiaries) did not
fulfill its function of providing support and of supervising the quality of services rendered. After
an international consultant was hired in March 2000, PSSF performance improved significantly;
an intensive dialogue with the beneficiaries was started, a new computerized information system
was implemented, two new financial analysts were hired and the commitment process was
accelerated and became more transparent.
While the PSSF was not only innovative at the time of appraisal, but also carefully designed, it
might not have been the right instrument in a post-conflict environment with a weakened
consultant base and the country-specific institutional and political environment. The private
sector, direct beneficiary of this component, was extremely weak and could therefore not
adequately participate in the design and supervision of the PSSF. Further. there was no time link
between the line of credit and the PSSF, as was originally planned. The PSSF should have been in
place before the line of credit so that beneficiaries of the PSSF could then have applied for loans
under the line of credit. Only two projects that were supported by the PSSF subsequently received
funding through the line of credit. Given the country circumstances after the genocide, in
hindsight it might have been better to concentrate on training programs, which were successful.
It is difficult to assess the final impact of the activities of the fund on the economy since no
independent follow-up has been done. According to estimates by the PSSF, for 65 percent of
beneficiaries for whom a follow-up took place, 1855 jobs were created and total investment of
RWF 7.8 billion (USS20 million) undertaken. The mid-term audit, however, revealed that by
October 31, 1999, there had been no actual or potential impact of the consulting activities
supported by the grants for 75 percent of the beneficiaries. Many feasibility studies were carried
out for beneficiaries with insufficient access to financial resources to realize the studied projects.
The training activities, on the other hand, had a significant impact on entrepreneurial capacity
building.
-7 -



Part C: Business Environment, Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building
1. Business Environment and Institutional Strengthening Private Sector
This component is rated satisfactory. Implementation of this component was very slow at the
outset due to weakened capacity of the concerned ministries in the aftermath of the genocide. As
a result, many of the actions envisaged under this component were taken at the very end of the
project.  An assessment of the impact is therefore difficult.  This component was rated
unsatisfactory until the end of 1998 due to slow disbursement.
Privatization of the Chamber of Commerce: The law governing the Chamber of Commerce was
repealed and the Chamber liquidated. The Rwanda Private Sector Federation was established in
December 1999. The new institution is more representative than the Chamber since it comprises
all sectors of the economy, and, unlike the Chamber of Commerce, is independent from
Government. Two studies concerning the structure and the business plan of the Association were
done after the establishment and were therefore less helpful than they could have been. The
Federation is not working yet and its financial future is uncertain, since the Government has not
yet transferred the net worth of the Chamber of Commerce to the Federation, as initially agreed.
Rwanda Investment Promotion Agency (RIPA): To foster private investment and to attract
foreign investors, the Government created this institution, with technical assistance from MIGA.
The Government appointed a managing director and launched a study to streamline investment
procedures for the establishment of a one-stop window within RIPA. However, the establishment
of this one-stop window has been delayed since the Government has not yet reformed the relevant
regulations. At the time of project closing, RIPA was promoting investment and serving as a
service counter helping investors manage the regulatory process and solve problems with other
Governnent agencies.
Legal and regulatory reform: This sub-component also financed consultant studies for legal and
regulatory reforms, mentioned below, and further studies to address problems of private sector
development in Rwanda. Many of these studies, however, have not seen any follow-up yet.
2. Strengthening of the Arbitration Center
After the decision was taken not to create a Tribunal of Commerce, the establishment of an
Arbitration Center was supported under the project. This Center was created in May 1999. Since
then, substantial progress has been made. A management team has been put in place, a business
plan has been developed and future arbiters have been trained. An amendment to the civil
procedure law to allow the use of arbitration has been enacted. As of December 2000, the Center
had solved one case, while another case was pending.
3. Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building in the Financial Sector
This component is rated satisfactory. New central bank statutes give BNR autonomy and
independence in the application of monetary policy instruments. A new banking law was enacted
- 8 -



that mandated BNR to regulate and supervise all commercial banks and other financial
institutions, including cooperatives, which had not been regulated before. BNR has issued several
instructions that complement and implement the new banking law. Studies for the regulation of
the leasing and venture capital sector were financed under the project, and will be implemented in
the coming years. Staff of BNR, the commercial banks and of the Union de Banques Populaires
du Rwanda (UBPR), the cooperative bank, were trained. An operational audit and a financial
audit of UBPR were undertaken and served as the basis for the preparation of financial and
technical support to this institution in the context of a new project. Finally, audits of all major
commercial banks were carried out twice, first after the war and again as of December 31, 1997.
The first audit served to establish the financial situation after the war and to determine eligibility
of PFIs in the apex line of credit component. Following the second round of audits, all
commercial banks had to submit restructuring plans. Minimum capital was raised from RWF 300
million to RWF 1.5 billion. The taxation of provisions was abolished in 1997. However, there are
concerns that the taxation might be reinstated. Several supervision missions have stressed the risk
to the financial situation of banks of such a reinstatement.
Legal and regulatory reforms
Legislative and regulatory reforms that were supposed to accompany the project implementation
started very slowly, although substantial progress had been made by the end of the project. A
new Labor Code, a new law governing internal trade, new insurance legislation and a new
telecommunication law have been approved by Parliament, and are expected to be enacted soon.
A complete overhaul of the Commercial Code was dropped in favor of revising specific laws,
several of which are still in Parliament. Other reforms include the liberalization of air traffic, the
elimination of dividend taxation, a decrease in the corporate tax rate from 50 percent to 40
percent, institution of depreciation allowance and a five-year credit allowance for operating losses
of business firms and the tax-exemption of provisions for losses of non-performing loans. The
internal trade law eliminated several price and quantitative controls to foster competition. The
formation and registration of new businesses has been fostered by the creation of RIPA.
Other legal reforms stated in the form of dated covenants have not been implemented yet, such as
the creation of a free-trade zone. According to the Government, the newly created RIPA will be
in charge of managing the free-zone legislation. The tax incentives for non-traditional exporters,
agreed on at project appraisal, have not yet been imnplemented. The privatization of the legal and
paralegal professions was only partially done, with lawyers serving as liquidators of bankrupt
enterprises, whereas the functions of bailiffs and notary publics were not privatized. The area of
negotiable and commercial instruments, guarantees, secured transactions, sales, factoring and
bankruptcy procedures has not been addressed yet, while leasing as well as venture capital
regulations are under preparation. Further legal and regulatory reforms, such as replacing the
turnover tax of 10 percent with a value-added tax and the modernization of business law, were
not included in the DCA. It was agreed that these topics would be treated at a later stage. The
value added tax is currently under implementation.
4.3 NVet Present i'alue/Economic rare of return:
No net present value/economic rate of return in the SAR.
-9-



4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated in the SAR.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional developmental impact is substantial. The project had an impact on the judicial
and institutional environment in which private businesses operate.  Institutions such as the
Arbitration Center, the Private Sector Federation and the RIPA will have a positive long-term
impact on private sector development in Rwanda. The Private Sector Federation might help create
an organized constituency of stakeholders in future legal and institutional reform and thus help
push the agenda for further private sector reforms.
The project had a substantial institutional development impact on the BNR and the financial
sector. The institutional capacity building component helped BNR strengthen regulation and
supervision by enacting new statutes, a new banking law and accompanying instructions. Audits
of the commercial banks were financed under this component that helped reveal the financial
situation of the banks after the war and helped formulate restructuring plans.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major factors outside the Government's control were the war and the genocide of 1994.
These events not only resulted in a change of Government, but also in an enormous loss of human
and physical capacity. These events, therefore, delayed not only effectiveness of the project by 21
months, but are also responsible for subsequent slow implementation and disbursement. ln the
aftermath of the conflict, the Government had to focus on reconstruction and reconciliation. The
legislative agenda was loaded with issues related to the internal conflict, and legal and regulatory
reforms affecting business were naturally not at the top of the agenda. The illegal occupation of
houses by returning refugees was also an impediment to implementation and to private sector
development in general. Due to the human losses of the war, the local consultant market dried up
in the aftermath of the conflict. IWACU, an NGO umbrella organization of consultants which
was designated to serve as intermediary between PSSF and the informal/micro-enterprise sector,
was much less effective after the genocide.
The banking sector suffered greatly during the conflict. Many of the loans given before the war
became non-performing due to human and physical losses of the borrowers. Both BK and BCR,
the two main commercial banks, had serious difficulties in restarting their operations and in
reconstructing their technical and human infrastructure. Further, due to the chaotic situation in
1994, financial audits were delayed for several years, which in turn delayed the declaration of
eligibility of the banks for the line of credit. Given the fragile financial situation revealed by these
audits, the eligibility then had to be postponed until rehabilitation plans had been agreed on to
guarantee the long-termn viability of these banks. Both banks-BK and BCR-were finally declared
eligible in December 1996, while BRD was declared eligible in January 1998.
- 10 -



Since the project was negotiated with the pre-war Government, there might initially have been a
lack of ownership and commitment by the new Government. Furthermore, since Rwanda's
private sector had been traditionally very weak and was even further weakened by the war and
genocide, there was no strong constituency for the project that could have served as counterpart
in the implementation period and as lobby for rapid implementation. The establishment of the
Private Sector Federation and several other privately-run institutions, such as the Arbitration
Center, will facilitate the dialogue with the final beneficiaries of future private sector development
projects and hopefully create a constituency for further reforms.
5. 2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Several of the components and sub-components were implemented with delays due to factors
subject to Government's control. The implementation of the line of credit component was delayed
due to delays in the implementation of the tax-exemption of loan loss provisions. The
implementation of the PSSF was delayed because the Government did not agree with the
requirements of the DCA that provided for the complete independence of the institution from
Government. Valuable time was lost in discussions between the Borrower and IDA regarding the
management and structure of PSSF. Implementation of the PSSF and the Institutional
Strengthening Component were also postponed by significant delays in the appointment of key
management and the hiring of international consultants. The Government's macroeconomic
policies that were oriented towards monetary and fiscal stability supported the implementation of
the project.
5.3 Factors generallj subject to implementing agency control:
Several supervision reports discuss serious management problems at the Cellule d'Appui au
Secteur Prive. There were significant delays in the hiring of personnel and consultants. Weak
project management was identified as a high or substantial risk component for project
implementation, and project management was rated unsatisfactory by an IDA supervision mission
in November 1997. The problem was in some measure resolved when implementation of the
substantive aspects of the private sector reforms and institution-building components were
delegated to the relevant ministries.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project had an original implementation period of five years. Due to the delayed effectiveness,
implementation was not completed until September 2000. The original closing date was June 30,
1999, and it was extended twice and closed on September 30, 2000. The original cost of the
project was SDR 14 million (US$19.25 million equivalent); US$12 million equivalent (62 percent)
was to be financed by IDA. After the war the cost structure was adjusted to reflect the fiscal
situation of the post-war Government and the depleted financial resources of the final
beneficiaries of the PSSF. The financing share of IDA in the Institutional Strengthening
Component was increased from 90 to 100 percent for all local costs (IDA financing share of
foreign costs was already at 100 percent). The co-financing share of the PSSF for the matching
grant was increased. Project cost at completion was US$16.1 million, representing 84 percent of
- 11 -



the original cost. This is explained by the lower contribution of the private beneficiaries,
especially in the case of the PSSF. Of the total IDA credit of SDR 8.7 million (US$12 million
equivalent), SDR 8.5 million (US$11.7 million equivalent) was disbursed, representing 97.6
percent of the total credit. The undisbursed balance of SDR 205,948 will be canceled.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainabiliry rating:
Given the private business investments financed under the line of credit component, the
institutional improvements implemented at BNR and the institutional and legal reform process
started, sustainability of the project is likely. The project has contributed to sustainable private
sector development by: (i) fostering private fixed investment; (ii) enhancing the monetary
policymaking and supervision capacity of BNR; and (iii) helping establish the regulatory and
institutional framework for private sector development.
The investments financed under the line of credit are likely to have a lasting positive impact on the
Rwandan economy. However, the fact that the re-flows are not used in the form of a revolving
credit line makes it less effective than it could be. Furthermore, given the fragile financial
situation of most commercial banks, even beneficiaries of the line of credit currently experience
problems receiving working capital. This might put previous investments financed under the line
of credit at risk.
The sustainability of the PSSF is unlikely as it will not be continued. Also, given country
conditions, and the manner in which the PSSF was implemented, it does not seem to have had a
major impact on the development of the local consultant market. However, there is certainly a
positive and sustainable impact of the fund's training activities. While preliminary studies indicate
that many of the feasibility studies did not result in subsequent financing and investment, it is to
early to make a final judgment on the economic impact of this component.
The sustainability of the Business Environment and Institutional Strengthening Private Sector
Component is likely, although some of the activities are still under implementation. The Rwanda
Private Sector Federation potentially has an important role to play, as counterpart of the
Government in its dialogue with the private sector and as representative of employers in their
dialogue with employee organizations. Its effectiveness in this role, however, depends on its
intemal strength and political independence, which is too early to judge. The RIPA is serving as a
service counter, but cannot fulfill its function as one-stop window yet. Many of the implemented
legal and regulatory reforms have had a positive effect on private sector development. The
long-term sustainability of all these reforms, however, will depend on the commitment of the
Government to private sector development.
The sustainability of the Arbitration Center is likely. Although it started its operations only
recently, it has had a promising start.
The sustainability of the Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Financial Sector
Component is likely. The new banking law gives BNR the mandate and the necessary instruments
- 12 -



to regulate and supervise efficiently. The experience in the last months and years has been
positive; BNR has successfully implemented the minimum capital requirement and restructuring
plans with the conmmercial banks. It has the available data to supervise the financial situation of
the banks closely. The licensing process has been made stricter. Substantial progress on the
implementation of the regulation and supervision of UBPR and other cooperative institutions has
been made. The final impact and sustainability of the institutional reforms and capacity building at
BNR, however, will be tested in the next years when BNR has to deal with the financially fragile
situation of the banking sector and UBPR. While the tax-exemption of specific provisions has
certainly had a positive impact on the solvency of banks, the repeal of this tax-exemption, as it is
currently discussed in the political arena, would have a very negative effect on financial sector
stability. Furthermore, the new Banking Law contains the mandate for financial institutions to
transfer all "dormant accounts" with no activity for five years to BNR (Art. 77). The execution of
this mandate would put both commercial banks and especially UBPR in serious liquidity
problems. Finally, while the UBPR restarted its activities, its fragile financial and operational
situation has not been addressed until recently.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has indicated its continued commitment to private sector development. This
commitment is reflected in the request for a follow-up project that is currently under preparation.
Many of the institutional strengthening and capacity building activities financed under this project
will continue to receive technical support under the new project, such as the Arbitration Center,
the Private Sector Federation, and the RIPA. The study about the needs of small and medium
enterprises will serve as input for technical assistance to the Center for Assistance to Small and
Medium Enterprises, financed under the new project. While the new project will not contain a
credit line, it will focus more on technical assistance for a possible restructuring of commercial
banks and strengthening of their debt recovery capacities. The PSSF will terminate its activities,
since no new donor financing has been secured to-date.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. While the commitment of the BorroWer was assessed correctly, in hindsight, the
implementation capacity might have been overestimated. In preparing this project, the Bank drew
from lessons learned with two previous lines of credit, exclusively to the development bank
(BRD). The completion reports of these lines of credit had recommended that future lines of
credit move away from a single institution approach to an apex type operation. The preparation of
the project was done in careful cooperation with other donors and the IMF and took into account
other ongoing projects, such as structural adjustment operations. Furthermore, the project was
linked to a planned Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) that would have addressed
structural deficiencies in the financial sector.  Addressing these deficiencies was especially
important for the success of the line of credit. However, due to the war, the Bank stopped
adjustment lending to Rwanda. Such an FSAC would have ensured a larger institutional
development impact, although many of the reforms that were negotiated for the FSAC were put in
- 13-



place anyway (such as liberalizing interest rates). The PSSF was a new and innovative product
that was very carefully designed, built on previous studies and pilot projects in Rwanda. This
project was in fact one of the first private sector development projects in the region to include
various activities directed to support the private sector. While the Bank assessed the risk of
political instability correctly, it was not possible to foresee the events of 1994. The Bank
complied with all safeguard policies.
After the war, the Bank sent several missions to Rwanda to evaluate the situation and to adjust
the project accordingly. Intensive discussions were held within the Bank about the future of the
project, and a conscious decision was taken to proceed with the project, given the importance of a
strong and efficient private sector in the reconstruction process. The Bank decided that no formal
restructuring was needed, given the broad scope of the project. However, the Bank tried to adapt
the project structure to the post-war environment by streamlining procedures, dropping
disbursement conditions and adjusting individual subcomponents. At the same time, the Bank
insisted on crucial conditionality, such as the tax-exemption of provisions and the winding down
of a credit guarantee fund. Further, after the war, it was envisioned that not all components of the
project would go ahead at the same speed. While this might have reduced efficiency gains (e.g.,
parallel functioning of the PSSF and the line of credit) it responded to the country circumstances,
specifically the limited capacity of the implementing agencies and the ministries. However, in
retrospect, it appears that the project should have been restructured after the war limiting the
number of areas covered by the project in order to increase its focus.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's perfornance in the supervision phase was marginally satisfactory. The project was
closely followed through regular supervision missions (see Annex 4). In 1994 and 1995 several
missions visited Kigali in very difficult circumstances and made a great effort to start and maintain
the dialogue with the new Government. The Bank project team showed a high degree of
flexibility and endurance in pursuing the effectiveness of this project in very difficult country
conditions. After effectiveness of the project, supervision missions helped the Borrower in the
institutional set-up and implementation of the project.  Supervision teams comprising both
economists and private and financial sector specialists visited Rwanda on a regular basis, normally
twice a year. Implementation problems were identified and brought to the Borrower's attention
along with suggested remedies. The missions also maintained the dialogue with the beneficiaries
of the project, i.e. the commercial banks and private enterprises, throughout the project
implementation. The midterm review was converted into regular supervision work. However,
there were frequent changes in the Task Team Leader on the Bank's side, which might have
affected the Bank's supervision work negatively.  These changes were due to (i) multiple
reorganizations in the Bank, (ii) the fact that Task Team Leaders were on staff exchange
assignments from other organizations, and (iii) the difficulties that staff faced working in
post-conflict countries. This negative effect was partly compensated by the excellent support by
the staff of the Country Office in Kigali.
Allegations have been made concerning violations of the application of the procurement
guidelines during the implementation phase of the project. The Bank will investigate and take
- 14 -



appropriate actions.
In the first years after effectiveness, the action plans agreed with the Borrower were overly
ambitious.  Often, the workload for the implementing agencies and the ministries was
overestimated. Several times supervision missions stated serious problems in project
implementation and proposed the suspension of certain components if the necessary
implementation conditions were not met. While the supervision reports realistically rated the
project as unsatisfactory until January 1998, actions suggested by the supervision missions were
often not followed through. The Bank does not appear to have been sufficiently consistent in
taking actions to address the implementation problems of the PSSF component. While a
supervision mission in November 1997 concluded that "the conditions in Rwanda (few qualified
local consultants, scarce foreign consultants, etc.) do not favor the use of this type of instrument,"
and "the efficiency of its management is, however, questionable," the Bank continued support of
this component. This is in part explained by the Bank's desire to be supportive at a time when the
country was still devastated by the genocide.
During supervision, the evaluation of project progress followed purely quantitative criteria, such
as loan amount disbursed under the line of credit. The developmental impact of the project
components, such as a more efficient resource allocation through the line of credit and the
matching grant facility, was not evaluated sufficiently.
Project supervision was evaluated by the QAG in 1999 and was rated marginal. While the
supervision of fiduciary aspects and the adequacy of supervision inputs and processes were rated
satisfactory, the focus on development impact was rated marginally satisfactory. The evaluation
panel noted that the project was "stretching capacity existing in Rwanda" before the war and "in
post conflict environrment under a new Government, the original design is clearly overly
ambitious." The panel noted the inconsistency of supervision ratings with subsidiary ratings in the
Project Status Reports. These problems of inconsistency were subsequently resolved.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the performance of the Bank during project preparation, appraisal and implementation
was satisfactory. The Bank maintained the dialogue with the Borrower during the difficult period
after the war and helped significantly in ensuring effectiveness of the project. Supervision of the
project was performed on a regular basis.   While the supervision missions identified
implementation problems and proposed remedies, the Bank may not have been sufficiently
consistent in taking action to address implementation problems.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
showed commitment to the objectives of the project, as can be seen from the Statement of Private
Sector Development Policy by the Government of Rwanda. This statement clearly spelled out the
policy reforms that the Government had embarked on or planned to undertake in the near future.
- 15-



7.5 Government implementation perforrnance:
The Government's performance during implementation was satisfactory despite significant
problems in the early stages of implementation. Due to the change of Government after the
genocide, ownership of the project by the Borrower had to be rebuilt. Both the Government and
the implementing agencies faced enormous difficulties after the genocide. The Government's
priorities were reconciliation and reconstruction of the country and legal and regulatory reforms
associated with the business environment were therefore often not at the top of the agenda. Many
of the necessary reforms were thus implemented at a very late stage and the Government
complied with several dated covenants either late or only partially. This delayed all components
of the project. The delay in the tax-exemption of provision for non-performing loans also
postponed the effectiveness of the line of credit. Disagreements on the need to recruit an
international consultant to manage the PSSF delayed the implementation of this component.
Further, the weak institutional environment and the limited human capacity prevented a quick
implementation of parts of the institution strengthening component. One of the weaknesses in
project implementation was the lack of autonomy of the Cellule d'Appui au Secteur Prive;
according to supervision reports even for the simplest decisions, the Ministry of Commerce had to
be contacted. The macroeconomic policies during implementation were oriented towards
monetary stability and reduction of the fiscal deficit. The resulting macroeconomic stability
provided a good environment for private sector development and thus the success of the project.
7.6 implementing Agency:
Overall, the implementation agencies' performance is rated satisfactory.  There were two
implementing agencies: BNR, which was responsible for the management of the line of credit and
the Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building Financial Sector, and the Cellule d'Appui
au Secteur Prive which was responsible for PSSF, Business Environment and Institutional
Strengthening Private Sector and Strengthening of the Arbitration Center components. BNR
managed the line of credit and the Institutional Strengthening Financial Sector Component in a
very efficient way, communicated regularly and promptly with the Bank on all matters regarding
these components and provided all necessary information.
The performance of the Cellule d 'Appui au Secteur Prive is rated marginally satisfactory. There
were serious management problems at the early stage of project implementation, such as very
slow decisions and a slow hiring process. Accounts were audited annually and in a timely fashion.
The audit reports of 1997 and 1999 state deficiencies in the accounting and intemal control
system of the Cellule. At the beginning of the project, the Cellule often got directly involved in
policy work that was the responsibility of the ministries of commerce and justice. A restructuring
of the implementation responsibilities on the Borrower's side was recommended in 1998 and
implemented. Instead of concentrating all responsibilities of the project implementation in one
unit, responsibility for the different components was delegated to the corresponding ministries.
This helped expedite implementation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. The war caused a substantial delay in the
- 16 -



implementation of the project. While there were initial management problems and significant
delays in all components of the project, the Borrower carried out a large scope of activities in a
satisfactory way.
8. Lessons Learned
Separate legal and regulatory reforms from technical assistance. The slow implementation of
legal and regulatory reforms confirms experience in other operations that technical assistance
projects are inefficient vehicles to ensure the necessary political decisions to implement these
reforms. A reform agenda is best included in structural adjustment operations and technical
assistance operations should precede or accompany the structural adjustment operations. Only
reforms that are directly linked to the success of a project should be included in the form of
disbursement conditions. Some of the dated covenants in this project that dealt with business
environment reforms that could not be implemented in the short-term were waived and others
were included in adjustment operations (such as the Labor Code), while other conditions that
were crucial for the success of the project, such as the tax-exemption of provisions and the
settling of claims on the credit guarantee fund, were retained.
In the aftermath of a civil war, projects have to be adjusted to the new circumstances and
be focused on priorities. The experience with the implementation of this project shows the
importance of flexibility and significant refocusing after a conflict of the magnitude of what
occurred in Rwanda. This requires intensive discussion and dialogue with the Borrower. First,
ownership of the project and the resulting commitment of the Government to such a project have
to be rebuilt. Second, the human loss and resulting change of counterparts on the Borrower side
demand the identification of new counterparts that are willing and capable of carrying the work
forward. Finally, a restructuring provides the opportunity to narrow the focus of the project on
essential needs of the private sector after such a conflict. Compared to regular projects,
post-conflict environments require an increased degree of commitment and flexibility, such as
shown by the Borrower and the Bank after the genocide.
A constituency for reforms is crucial for implementation. A group of final beneficiaries that
supports reforms is crucial for their successful implementation. The private sector, the main
beneficiary of this project, has traditionally been weak in Rwanda and was weakened further by
the genocide. No organized forum, apart from the state-run Chamber of Commerce, that could
have served as a formal counterpart for the both the Bank and the Borrower existed during
project implementation. The difficulties in developing the procedural manual for the PSSF due to
limited involvement of the private sector give testimony to this lack of dialogue. For future
projects it is therefore recommended to set up a steering conrmittee that includes the main
beneficiaries of the project, mainly private sector representatives.
Capable implementing agencies are critical for implementation.  The difference in
performance of the two implementing agencies-the Department of Monetary Policy at BNR and
the Cellule d'Appui au Secteur Prive-and the resulting differences in the speed and quality of
implementation of the respective components underline the importance of capable implementation
agencies. Furthermore, an implementation agency cannot substitute for a stakeholder in the
necessary project component. Reforms carried out by the responsible ministries, which have, a
- 17 -



larger long-term stake in the success of these reforms than the project implementation unit, may
be more successful. At the same time, project activities can be coordinated through a steering
committee. After this project underwent such a change in 1998, the institutional strengthening
component gained significant speed in implementation and disbursement.
Instruments need to fit country circumstances. When first proposed, the PSSF was a very
innovative and well-designed instrument to enhance managerial and technical knowledge in the
Rwandan private sector. However, the post-conflict environrnent was not conducive to the use of
such an instrument. The local consultant market had suffered from the conflict and institutions
that were supposed to support the project were much less effective. The institutional and political
environment was not conducive either.  While the fund was supposed to be completely
autonomous and to be led initially by an intemational consultant to allow local capacity building,
the need for independence was questioned by the new Government, the fund was led by a
Rwandan with no previous private sector experience, and the intemational consultant was hired at
a very late stage of the project. The beneficiaries (private enterprises) had limited influence, if
even knowledge, of the fund and its work. In hindsight, a refocusing of the fund on training
activities might have been desirable.
Structural deficiencies in the financial sector have to be addressed to guarantee long-term
viability of the sector. At the time of appraisal, the Rwandan financial sector met requirements
for an apex line of credit, but the situation deteriorated after the war due to borrowers who had
lost all their capital or even their lives during the genocide. Although the line of credit was
quantitatively a success and provided urgently needed investrnent financing after the war, and the
new banking law allows for more efficient financial sector supervision and regulation, the
Rwandan financial sector therefore still suffers from a high level of non-performing loans and a
resulting financially fragile situation. Some beneficiaries of the line of credit are not able to get
fmancing for working capital, which undermines the long-run viability of these enterprises. While
this does not question the need to have proceeded with the line of credit or its success, it
underlines the importance of addressing structural deficiencies in the financial sector, such as
enhancing a good incentive framework and decreasing moral hazard by reducing the state's role in
bank ownership and management. Reforms in the judiciary and judicial sectors that enhance the
value of collateral for loans are also important components of such a reform agenda. Additional
resources for investment financing, channeled through the financial sector, can only have a lasting
effect on efficient resource allocation and thus economic growth and development if the financial
sector works efficiently and in the right institutional and legal environment.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrowver/implementing agency:
Comments were not received.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other par-tners (NGOs/private sector.:
N/A
- 18 -



10. Additional Information
Table 1: Adjustment of project to post-war situation
Post-war situation            Amendment                      Result
Project became effective 21    Dated covenants were     Most of these reforms were
months after approval by Board postponed, delayed or included implemented, although later
in adjustement operations  than envisioned
Not all components could go   Disbursement condition for    Business Environment and
ahead at the same speed    Tribunal of Commerce         Institutional Strengthening
sub-component was restricted  Private Sector sub-component
to this sub-component       could go ahead
Severe budgetary constraints  Percentage of expenditures    Budget constraints after the
for Government             paid by IDA was increased to  genocide were alleviated
100% for all components
Limited financial resources of  Cost sharing agreement of  This facilitated the participation
private sector             PSSF changed in favor of     of the private sector in PSSF
beneficiaries               grants
Limited capacity to attract  Requirement was changed to   Candidate with inadequate
intemational consultant to head hiring of expert as director and background was chosen
PSSF                       intemational consultant as
technical advisor
Limited implementation      Sub-component was replaced  Arbitration Center has
capacity of Ministry of Justice  by support to Arbitration  experienced a positive start
Center
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome  Impact Indicators:
f Indicator1Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
Ensure private sector access to investment                                      -Apex line of credit financed 14 projects,
financing                                                                       with investments amoun6ng to SDR 8
million, aeabng 380 jobs, and providing
necessary resources for reconstructon after
the war. However, this does not necessarily
have a sustainable impact on future access
to investment financing
- Studies on leasing industry and venture
capital funcs lay ground work for future work
Enhance private sector managerial and                                           Private enterprises received managerial and
technical competencies                                                          technical support and training at subsidized
rates; final economic impact still to be
evaluated, but could be hmited
Enhance private sector incentives, improve                                      - Establishment of Private Sector Federation
private sector institutions and tax system                                      creates a counterpart in public-private sector
dialogue
- Rwanda Investment Promoibon Agency
facilitates registration of private businesses
- Tax reform eliminated tax distortions
- Export incentves agreed on in the early
1 990s are stil waiting for implementabon
Strengthen legal system                                                         Estabgshment of the Arbitration Center is a
step towards an efficient legal framework, in
which business enterprises operate
More efficient financial intermediation                                         - New BNR statutes and new banking law
give BNR autonomy and sufficient powers to
implement monetary policy and supervise
financial institutions efficiently
- Still very high level of non-performing loans,
only partly explained by war
Improve legal and regulatory framework                                          - Legal and regulatory work laid ground for
further reforms steps that have to be taken
- 20 -



Output Indicators:
Indicatorlatrix                     Projected In last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of projects and investment financed                                     14 projects, total investment of SDR 8 million
under the line d credit                                                        and creating 380 jobs
Number of beneficiaries and grants of the                                      98 beneficiaries and 119 granls
PSSF
Privatization of Chamber of Commerce                                           Chamber of Commerce aboished. Privately
run Rwanda Private Sector Federation
established
RIPA and one-stop wrndow established                                           RIPA established, one-stop window not yet
Tribunal of Commerce established                                               component canceled, instead Arbitration
Center established
New banidng law and BNR statutes,                                              enacted in 1997
tax-exemption of loan loss provisions
Legal and regulatory refomrs                                                   - New Labor Code
- Intemal Trade Law
- Telecommunications Law
- Insurance Laws
- Liberalizaton of air traffic
- Tax reforms
End of project
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Investments                                         11.40          10.90            95.6
Private Sector Support Fund                          4.05           3.13            77.3
Institutional Strengthening                          3.30           2.07            62.7
Total Baseline Cost                                 18.75          16.10
Physical Contingencies                              0.50           0.00
Total Project Costs             19.25          16.10
Total Financing Required              19.25          16.10
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB          Other2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.75         0.00          0.75
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.45)       (0.00)       (0.45)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         6.10          1.00         7.10
(0.00)        (0.00)       (4.55)       (0.00)       (4.55)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         11.40         0.00        11.40
(0.00)        (0.00)       (7.00)       (0.00)       (7.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
._______________  (0.00)   (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         18.25         1.00         19.25
(0.00)        (0.00)      (12.00)       (0.00)       (12.00)
-22 -



Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         ICB             NCB          Other           N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                         0.00           0.00           0.85           0.00           0.85
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.83)         (0.00)        (0.83)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           8.68           0.00           8.68
(0.00)         (0.00)         (4.30)         (0.00)        (4.30)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           6.57           0.00           6.57
(0.00)         (0.00)         (6.57)         (0.00)        (6.57)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00          16.10          0.00           16.10
(0.00)         (0.00)        (11.70)         (0.00)        (11.70)
These figures are estimates based on the infornation available.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA       Govt       CoF.      1DA        Govt.     CoF.    IDA    Govt.  CoF.
Investment               7.00       0.00      4.40       6.67       0.00      4.33     95.3    0.0   98.4
Private Sector Support   2.50       0.00       1.55      2.92       0.00      0.33     116.8   0.0   21.3
Fund
Instirutional Strengthening    2.00  0.30      1.00      2.11       0.00      0.00     105.5   0.0    0.0
Unallocated              0.50                            0.00                           0.0
These are estimates based on the information available.
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
05/92                      1   Economist
3   1 Sr. Operations Analyst, 2
consultants
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/92                      1   Economist
2   Operations Analysts
Supervision
10/93                       3   1 Economist, 1 Financial
Analyst, I consultant
11/93                       1  Economist
09/94                       1  Financial Analyst                  HU              HU
04/95                       2   1 Economist, 1 Financial Anal.     U               U
07/95                       1   Economist                          U               U
11/95                       1  Economist                           U              U
06/96                       1  Economist                           U               U
12/96                       2   1 Economist, 1 Financial Anal.     U               U
05/97                       2   Economists                         U               U
11/97                       2   Economists                         S               S
04/98                       2   1 Economist, I Operat. Officer     S               S
03/99                       3   2 Economists, 1 Priv. Sect. Spec.  S               S
12/99                       4   2 Private Sector Spec. 1           S               S
Economist, 1 Fin. Sector Spec.
06/00                       4   1 Financial Sector Spec., 2        S               S
Private Sector Spec., 1 Financial
Economist
ICR
12/00                      2    1 Financial Economist, I           S               S
Financial Sector Spec.
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              64.5                        91.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                   72.5                        127.7
Supervision                              162                       248.2
ICR                                      5.5                        26.0
Total                                  304.5                       493.3
- 25 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=Higa, SU=Substartial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
] Macropolicies                           O H  O SU OM   O N  C NA
El Sector Policies                          H H  *SUOM  O N  C NA
a Physical                                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
a Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  C NA
]IlnstitutionalDevelopmenr                OH  OSUCM  0 N  C NA
O Environmental                           OH. OSUOM  ON  * NA
Social
] Poverty Reduction                0 H  O SU OM  0 N  0 NA
] Gender                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
El Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  *  A
C] Private sector development             O H  O SU0M  0 N  C NA
C] Public sector managementH              C    0 SU O M  0 N       NA
C]Other (Please specify)                  O H  O SUOM  C N  * NA
* 26-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
D Lending                                            OHS*S OU - HU
O Supervision                                        OHS       S  O U   'HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  _HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS   O U           HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0 U  ^ HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S   0 U  _ HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS   O U           HU
-27 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Staff Appraisal Repon
Development Credit Agreement and Amendments
Project Agreement between IDA and BNR
Statement of Mission Objectives, Aide-Memoire and Back-to-Office Reports
Consultant reports evaluating the different components of the project
- 28 -



