RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                  Report No. P-768
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or- completeness. The report may
not be. published nor may it be quoted as reopresenting their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE
OF MOROCCO WITH THE GRARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
December 24, 1969



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
BANQUE NATIONALE POUR LE DEVELOPPEMENT ECONOMIQUE
OF MOROCCO WTITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
1.        I submit the following report and recormmendation on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US $15 million to the Banque Nationale pour le D6veloppement
Economique (BNDE) in Morocco.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        BNDE was established under Government sponsorship in
1959 with the participation of local and foreign private investors.
The Bank's association with it dates from December 1962 when the
company was reorganized to include a majority of private sharehol-
ders and the Bank's first loan in IIorocco amounting to $15 million
was made to it. At that time, BNDE increased its share capital,
in which IFC took a $1.5 million participation. In 1968, the
share capital was reduced by one third, through the refunding of
shares or their conversion into bonds, in order to increase its
profitability, bringing IFC's participation to about $1.0 million
but without altering IFC's share in the company (25 percent).
At present the remainder of theequity is held by Government (143
percent), Moroccan investors (16 percent) and foreign investors
(16 percent). A second Bank loan of $17.5 million was made in
May 1966 and a third one of $15.0 million in November 1968; there
are only negligible balances left uncommitted. In the spring of
1969, BNDE requested a fourth Bank loan and an appraisal mission
visited BNDE in May 1969; negotiations took place in Washington
from December 8 to December 12 with Mr. Benkirane, Director
General of BNDE, and Mr. Benchekroun, Director of the Treasury
in the Ministry of Finance, who represented the Government
as Guarantor.



3.        The proposed loan would be the ninth operation in
Morocco by the Bank or IDA. The following is a summary statement
of Bank loans and IDA credits in iforocco as of November 30, 1969:
Loan or
Credit                                          (Amount in US $ million)
Number   Year   Borrower            Purpose      Bank IDA   Undisbursed
329     1962   BNDE                DFC          15.0
389     196)   Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture  17.5          h.8
79     1965   Kingdom of N'orocco Education          11.0    9.9
h33     1965   Caisse Nationale de
Credit Agricole     Agriculture   9.8
W7     ]1966   BNDE                DFC          17.5          3.2
571     1968   BNDE                DFC          15.0         11.0
*i167    1969   Kingdom of Morocco  Highway             7.3    7.3
*-6h2    1969   Kingdom of i'lorocco Highway      7.3          7.3
*603     1969   Kingdom of 11orocco  Agriculture  h6.0        h6.0
Total (less cancellations)                     128.1
of which has been repaid to Bank               8.6
Total now outstanding                          119.5
Amount sold                                    1.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 TT7W     75.3
Total undisbursed                               72.3  17.2   89.5
* Not yet effective
)4.       Progress of the projects which are under implementation is
now satisfactory except for disbursements under IDA Credit No. 79
for education, which are considerably behind schedule. This project
had a slow start but, since 1967, construction of schools in the
first phase has proceeded satisfactorily and this phase was completed
in 1968; there have been delays, though, in payments to contractors
and in applying to the Association for reimbursement. A recent
supervision mission has also reported delays in the implementation
of the second phase of school construction and corrective measures
have been suggested to accelerate the work. A supervision mission



-3 -
will be sent to Morocco in about three months to ascertain the
progress achieved. Disbursements have also been slow under IBRD
Loan No. 389 -- although work is almost completed -- and the
original closing date has been postponed by one year to October 31, 1970.
5.        Apart from the above mentioned investment of IFC in
BNDE, the Corporation made in 1966 an investment and a loan
totalling about $1 .L million in Compania Industrial del IJukus
(CIJ,), a company mainly concerned with processing and canning
of vegetables. IFC and BNDE shared equally in the financing
of this project and each holds 23 percent of the share capital
of CII.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF TIHE PROPOSED T,OAN
6.
Borrower:              Banque Nationale pour le D6velop-
pement Economique (BMDE).
Guarantor:              Kingdom of ?i"orocco
Amount:                 The equivalent of $15 mill-ion in
various currencies.
Purpose:                To provide BNDE with funds to
finance projects carried out by
productive enterprises.
Amortization:          The initial amortization schedule
provides for repayment over 15 years
through semi-annual installments
starting March 15, 1972 and ending
September 15, 1986; it is subject
to change to conform substantially
with the aggregate of the amortization
schedules for the sub-projects for
which loan funds are disbursed.
Interest rate:          Seven percent
Commitment charge:     3/4 of 1 percent per annum on the un-
withbdIa6n  amount of the loan



PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A report entitled "Appraisal of Banque Nationale pour
le D6veloppement Economique" (No. DB-57a) is attached.
8.        Morocco's exceptionally good harvest in 1968 resulted
in a GDP increase of 12 percent cver 1967. As a result of this
increase in purchasing power, demand for corsumer goods increased
and industry operated closer to capacity than in 1967. Industrial
output rose by b.2 percent in relation to the previous year, and
sales probably increased at a faster rate, allowing many industries
to reduce stocks.  Nevertheless, industrial growth since indepen-
dence has fallen short of expectations, mostly as a result of the
departure of the important foreign entrepreneurs who played a
leading role in this sector and of the quasi-s-tagnation of the
economy as a whole from the time of independence through 1966.
By 1968, industry and handicrafts accounted for 12 percent of GDP,
with employment in manufacturing representing 160,000 jobs (i.e.
only 4.3 percent of the labor force).   These results are disappoint-
ing considering the high rate of increase of the active population,
which by far exceeds that of job creation, and the consequent
pressure on the land and unemployment. While there appears to
have been an increasing rate of industrial growth during the first
9 months of 1969, the insufficient development of industry in the
last few years has led the Government to ask the Bank to carry out
an industrial survey in early 1970.  A Bank mission will undeztake
this task and will explore the prospects for industry (in particular
in the light of the recent association with the European Economic
Community) and review present policies affecting industrial growth.
9.        Total investment in industry and tourism   authorized by
the Government's Investment Commission since 1967 has been of the
order of $80 million per year. BNDE's role in this process has
been a major one.  Total BNDE approvals of financial assistance,
including rediscounting commitments and guarantees, increased
threefold from 1964 to 1968 to a level of about $21 million in
the latter year. In recent years, BNDE has been providing finance
for a major share of new investments and there are few new indus-
trial or tourist enterprises wlhich have not received some form of
financial assistance from BNDE.



- 5 -
10.       Close to one third of BNDE's volume of business in 1968
and most of 1969 has been concentrated on tourism, mostly through
its participation in loans made for hotel construction by the
Cr6dit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIHI), a credit institution specialized
in housing and hotel financing. BNDE's lending through CIH for
hotels - and the use of Bank loans for that purpose - was agreed
upon in 1966 pending direct lending by the Bank to CIH. The Bank
is now considering such a direct loan to CIH and it is planned
to negotiate it in early 1970. It i.s therefore expected that,
in the future, practically all of BNDE's lending will be for in-
dustrial projects, although the company ,,-ill continue to play a
promotional role and to take equity participations in tourisrr.
projects, a field in which it has made profitable investments in
recent years. Judging from the number of projects row under study
by BNDE, the reduction in its hotel financing is expected to be
more than offset in the next few years by increased lending for
industry.
11.       Parallel to the expansion of BNDE's activities, return
on its equity has sharply increased in 1968 as a result of the
one third reduction in share capital effected in that year and its
replacement by a low interest (2 percent) Government loan.  The
improved return allowed an increase in dividends from L percent to
6 percent in respect of 1968, but this is still hardly sufficient
to induce Moroccan investors to buy BNDE's shares. The Bank has
urged the Government and the BNDE to consider an increase in BNDE's
present interest rate of 7 percent, not only in order to increase
BNDE's profitability but more importantly to achieve a rate more
appropriate in determining the allocation of scarce resources. In
this regard , the wqhole range of subsidies, incentives, protections
and tax exemptions given to industry need to be re-examined at the
same time as BNDE's rate.  It has therefore been agreed with the
Government that the next Banik economic mission, scheduled for
April 1970, will carry out, as part of its review of the economy,
a survey of the interest rate structure and of the incentives
given to industry. In this field, the economic mission will be
closely coordinated with that of the DIF and with the industrial
survey mission scheduled for about the same time.



- 6 -
12.       In the past year, BNDE improved its methods and standards
of project appraisal, particularly concerning financial and technical
aspects, as viell as its performance on project supervision. There
is, however, still room for improvement in marketing and economic
analysis and a need for better coordination among BNDE departments.
The situation is aggravated because in the absence of a Deputy,
the Director General is heavily over-burdened.  This is an important
problem and the Director General has indicated during negotiations
that a Deputy will be appointed by August 1970.
13.       BNDE seems to have weathered the troublesome period which
arose as a result of the economic recession of 1966/67 and its
lingering effects in such sectors as textiles; its portfolio does not
contain any unusually risky items and is protected by adequate
reserves. In view of this, and the procedural and organizational
improvements effected by BNDE, it is proposed to raise the limit
under which BNDE can use the Bark loan proceeds without the Bank's
prior approval of the projects from the present $150,000 to $300,0003
however, it is stipulated that no more than $1.0 million of the
loan should be used for such projects.
1b.       BNDE is a suitable borrower for a new Bank loan of $15
million which together with a $3.0 million loan frorn AID would
cover its foreign exchange needs until about April 1971.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
15.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Banque
Nationale pour le D6veloppement Economique, the draft Guarantee
Agreement between the Kingdom of Morocco and the Bank, the report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 1 (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement and the text of a Resolution approving
the proposed Loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The provisions of the draft Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments conform generally to the pattern of Agreements currently
utilized for loans to development finance companies.



- 7 -
PART V - THE D1OMOM4Y
16.       An economic report entitled "Recent Economic Develop-
ments in Morocco" (No. EIA-lT, dated August 29, 1969) was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on September 22, 1969.
17.       Morocco's economic performance in the late 1960's improved
considerably as compared with the early and mid-1960's when there
had been little change in per capita incomes. In 1967, despite
poor rainfall, total output rose by 7 percent while in 1968 a record
cereals crop accounted for two-thirds of the 12 percent gain in the
gross domestic product. Investment expenditures, which had been
averaging some 11-12 percent of GDP earlier in the decade, rose
to a rate of 13-1 percent in the last years, all of the rise being
attributable to public sector outlays. Thus, the 1968-72 Plan
has had a good start, with expenditures close to targets. Various
administrative and organizational improvements have recently been
made, including in the planning process itself, and in mid-1969 an
important step towards institutional reform was taken with the en-
actment of an agricultural investment code. Other auspicious recent
developments have included the maintenance of internal price stabil-
ity, a decline in private capital outflows, the conclusion of an
Association tgreement with the )iropean Economic Comnunity and sig-
nificant gains in tax revenues.
18.       Problems of major concern include the very rapid rate of
population growth, mounting unemployment in the cities and under-
employment on the land, serious shortages of skilled manpower and
continuing hesitancy in the private sector. The debt-service burden
is still fairly low relative to foreign exchange earnings and to
Government revenues. The debt-service ratio is expected to be below
10 percent in 1969, but it will rise steadily if Morocco is able
to borrow abroad the considerable amounts it needs to help finance
its growing investment program, even if exports rise substantially.
However, recent perfprmance and current outlook indicate that
Morocco is creditworthy for additional borrowing on conventional
terms.



- 8 -
19.       A Consultative Group for Morocco was orgarized in 1967
and met in April of that year.  A second meeting took place in
Paris in October 1969. A subsequent meeting is planned for
late 1970.
PART VI - COMPLIAMCE W,ITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
20.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply witl
the Articles of Agreement of the Bankt.
PART VII - RECOIDTIENDATION
21.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 214, 1969



