                                                                65952 v1




                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                           RESTRUCTURING PAPER


                                    OF THE


          SECOND MULTISECTORAL HIV/AIDS CONTROL PROJECT


                              CREDIT 4290-BEN
                     (Approved by the Board on April 5, 2007)



                                    TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF BENIN


                                 June 9, 2011




Africa Region
Health, Nutrition and Population (AFTHE)
            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
CBO       Community-based Organization
CNLS      Comité National de Lutte contre le SIDA, National HIV/AIDS Control
          Committee
CSO       Civil Society Organization
FM        Financial Management
HIV       Human Immune Deficiency Virus
IDA       International Development Association
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH       Ministry of Health
MTCT      Mother-to-Child Transmission
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
PDO       Project Development Objective
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PPF       Project preparation Fund
UNICEF    United Nations Children Fund
WHO       World Health Organization




         Regional Vice President:   Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
               Country Director:    Madani M. Tall
                 Sector Director:   Ritva Reinikka
                Sector Manager:     Eva Jarawan
              Task Team Leader:     Ayite-Fily D’Almeida
     BENIN SECOND MULTISECTORAL HIV/AIDS CONTROL PROJECT

                                         P096056

                                   CREDIT 4290-BEN

                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

A.   SUMMARY

1.    This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Country Director to introduce
changes in the Benin Second Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Control Project and accompanying
amendments to the project’s legal documents.

2.      The proposed changes are as follows: (i) a reallocation of the proceeds of the
credit; and (ii) an extension the closing date from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012.

3.    There would be no change in the project development objective (PDO), project
components, and institutional arrangements.

4.     The expected outcome of the restructuring would be a more effective project
implementation resulting in a better control of the HIV/AIDS epidemic through improved
prevention of transmission by high-risk groups, treatment of those infected by the virus,
and better management of the national response.

B. BACKGROUND AND PROJECT STATUS

5.     The project was approved by the Board on April 5, 2007 and became effective on
January 9, 2008.

6.      Until the mid-term-review (MTR), project implementation was moderately
satisfactory as it took some time for the newly-recruited project team to familiarize itself
with Bank procedures. In 2009 the Bank conducted an institutional assessment that
recommended to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the staff of the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU), strengthen the staffing of the PIU, and revise the project
implementation manual. As a result, project implementation improved substantially.

7.       The MTR was held on January 18, 2010. It recommended making prevention
activities more selective and focused on high-risk groups. The project was restructured a
first time on December 21, 2010. The baseline and end-of-project targets values were
adjusted to take into account the new available data and project achievements. The results
framework was updated accordingly. A reallocation of funds per disbursement category
was made in line with the evolving needs of the project. The MTR recognized the
substantial progress of the project and improved the rating to satisfactory.

8.      Since effectiveness, procurement performance has been regularly rated
satisfactory. Financial management has also been rated satisfactory, except for a short
period. In 2008, it was downgraded to moderately satisfactory following the
identification of about US$28,000 of ineligible expenditures identified by the external
audit. These were fully repaid by the government and financial management (FM)
procedures were clarified to prevent the problem reoccurring. The FM rating was
subsequently upgraded to satisfactory.

9.       Following recommendations of the MTR, the implementation of environmental
activities speeded up. A number of medical waste management activities were outsourced
to civil society and the private sector, allowing the national medical waste agency to
focus on oversight, supervision and technical support.

10.     Despite recurrent strikes of the health sector staff during recent months, the
project has continued making good progress. As of June 9, 2011, around 80% of the
credit had been disbursed.

11.     Performance indicators. All indicators except one are progressing steadily, and
are on track to meet the end-of-project targets. The only lagging indicator is the
percentage of HIV-infected pregnant women receiving treatment to prevent mother-to-
child transmission (MTCT) of HIV/AIDS. As of December 31, 2010 it stood at 54%
against an end-target of 70%. The slowdown in the implementation of this activity results
from the long time taken by the Ministry of Health (MOH) to prepare new guidelines
aligned with the WHO and UNICEF norms, and for the unpreparedness of health
personnel to use them. In order to catch up, the MOH has been training its staff in the use
of the new guidelines and is now allowing paramedical staff to handle MTCT in facilities
with no doctor, which will improve the efficiency of services.

12.      Project management. The PIU is staffed with competent personnel including a
Project Coordinator, a Public Health Specialist, a Social Mobilization Specialist, a
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, a Financial Management Specialist, a Procurement
Specialist;, and an Internal Auditor. They are supported by six field-based M&E
Specialists, and by AgeFIB, a non-profit organization contracted to monitor project
activities implemented by non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and community-
based organizations (CBOs).

13.    Overall coordination of HIV/AIDS Response. The Comité National de Lutte
contre le SIDA, National HIV/AIDS Control Committee (CNLS) leads, coordinates and
monitors the government response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. It has a Permanent
Secretariat that has been managing operations financed by the Bank and other donors,
including procurement, financial management and M&E. The Bank has initiated a
dialogue with the government to ensure that there will be enough financing for CNLS to
implement the national program after the closing of the Bank operation.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

14.     Reallocation of the credit’s proceeds. A reallocation of funds between
categories is proposed as follows. Funds for medical equipment, drugs, tests and reagents
would be increased to allow the government to scale up the implementation of the MTCT
program. This would allow to: (i) purchase additional laboratory equipment and increase
diagnostic capacity; (ii) procure additional antiretroviral drugs to treat HIV/AIDS
patients; (iii) train paramedical staff in MTCT; and (iv) increase the detection and
treatment of sexually-transmitted infections. The categories of grants to CSOs and CBOs
would be reduced in line with the government’s new strategy of better targeting high-risk
groups (sex workers, truckers etc.), and focusing on quality rather than quantity of
preventive activities. Smaller adjustments would be made to other categories to reflect
the project’s current needs. The details of the proposed reallocation are presented in
Table 1.

  Table 1 – Reallocation of Proceeds
                                                        Allocation          % of Financing
             Category of Expenditure
                                                    (expressed in XDR)       (inclusive of
                       Current                     Current      Revised         Taxes)

  1 (a) Works                                      758,000       758,000        100%
  2 (a) Vehicles, Motorcycle and Equipment        1,029,000     1,049,000       100%

  2 (b)Medical Equipment, Drugs, Test and         7,536,000     8,950,000       100%
  Reagents
  3. Consultants, Services, Audits and Training   4,413,000     4,150,000       100%
  4 (a) Grants to CBO                             1,540,000     1,279,000       100%

  4.(b) Grants to CSO                             4,897,000     4,320,000       100%

  4 (c) Grants to Line Ministries                   451,000     370,000         100%

  5. Operating Costs                              2,785.749     2,533,749       100%
  6. PPF                                             90,251       90,251
  7. Unallocated                                      0            0
  TOTAL                                           23,500,000   23,500,000


15.     Extension of Closing Date. The closing date of the project would be extended
from December 31, 2011 to June 30, 2012. This would be the first extension. The Project
financial statements have been audited in due time by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA, and there are no qualified issues reported.


16.     The proposed extension would give sufficient time to complete critical activities
and reach the project end-targets, with special efforts for prevention of MTCT which is
currently lagging behind. The government has presented an action plan for project
implementation until the new closing date. The plan was reviewed and found realistic.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

17.     The proposed reallocation and extension would have no effect on the economic,
financial, institutional or social aspects of the Project as appraised. It would not change
the project environmental category or trigger new safeguard policies. Also, the
reallocation does not involve any exceptions to Bank policies. The economic analysis
carried out for the preparation of the project in the appraisal document remains relevant.
The extension would allow the project to reach its target and meet the PDO. The
country’s technical capacity to cope with HIV/AIDS challenges would also have been
strengthened, as well as the Benin health system.
18.     Risks. The main risk is possible delays in implementation because of further
strikes by health personnel of the MOH. While strikes would not affect the part of the
project contracted to NGOs, they could delay activities implemented by the MOH,
including treatment of AIDS patients and prevention of MTCT. To a certain extent this
risk is already taken into consideration in the implementation plan that includes some
safety margin in terms of time. Also, close supervision and dialogue with the government
would allow assessing to what extent workloads can be increased through overtime to
catch up, once a strike is over.
