Report No 615a-JM
Appraisal of Kingston Sewerage I
and Water Supply Project    FiLE Copy
Jamaica
June 11, 1975
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group It may not
be pubished, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -   Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$1               -   J$ 0.909
US$1 million       -   J$ 909,000
J$                 -   US$ 1.10
J$ million         -   US$ 1.1 million
ABBREVIATIONS
Commission         -   The Water Commission
Kingston, Jamaica
NWA    ,            -   National Water Authority
Corporate Area     -   Kingston and St. Andrew
Parishes
PAHO               -   Pan American Health
Organization
Gallon             -   Imperial Gallon
(1 gallon = 4.5 liters or
1.2 US gallons)
Mgd                 -   million gallons per day
(1 mgd = 4.544 cubic me+ers/day)
god                 -   gallons per capita per day
(1 ged = 4.54 liters/day)
Mg                  -  million gallons
IDB                -   Inter-American Development Bank
MPUCT              -   Ministry of Public Utilities,
Communications and Transpoxt
MNR                 -   Ministry of Mining and Natural
Resources
NDA                 -   National Development Agency
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
i.e. fiscal year 1976 = year ending March 31, 1976



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................  i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION ....................................              1
II.    THE SECTOR .........         ..............................    2
III.    THE PROJECT .....................................    4
Existing Facilities .............................    4
The Proposed Project ...........................5. 
Amount of Proposed Loan .........................    6
Procurement .........          ............................    7
Disbursement ........          ............................    7
Project Supervision and Administration ....           ......    7
IV.    JUSTIFICATION  ..................................    9
Demand   ..........       ...............................    9
Contamination ...................................              9
Project Selection  ..............................              9
Return on Investment ...........................    10
V.     THE BORROWER  ...........           ................    12
Organization  ..............           ..............    12
Management .........            ...................    12
Reorganization and Training   ........... .........   13
Financial Position  ............................    13
VI. FINANCES .13
Financial Performance .13
Past Finances .14
Tariffs .14
Financing Plan .15
Future Finances .16
Reducing Water Losses .16
This report was prepared by Mr. J. Freedman (Engineer), Mr. C. Fernandez (FNA)
with assistance from Mr. C. Todd (FNA) and Mr. E. Pogson (FNA).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS . ................................  17
A.   That the Commission .......    .................  17
B.   That the Jamaican Government .....   ..........  18
ANNEXES
No.
1.       The Project
I.   Existing Facilities of the Water Commission
II.   Description of the Project
2.       Cost Estimate
1.  Sewerage
2.  Water Supply
3.   Studies and Miscellaneous
3.       Investment Schedule
4.       Cumulative Quarterly Investments and Disbursements
5.       Incremental Rate of Return
6.       Approximate Water Costs and Income Distribution
7.       Assumptions for Financial Projections
8.       Consolidated Income Statement
9.       Consolidated Sources and Application of Funds
10.       Balance Statement
11.     .Water Tariffs
12.      Asset Codes and Depreciation Rates
13.      Monitoring Indicators



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
LIST OF CHARTS
Proposed Organization Chart                    IBRD No. 9226
Water Supply Data and Projections              IBRD No. 9225
Water and Sewer Connections                    Chart 3
Water Consumption and Water Revenues           Chart 4
Activity Schedule                              IBRD No. 9328(R)
LIST OF MAPS
Location of Project - Water Supply             IBRD No. 11301
Location of Project - Sewerage                 IBRD No. 11302 (R)



JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a US$30.0 million (US$33.3
million including interest during construction) equivalent sewerage and
water supply project for the Kingston - St. Andrew area in Jamaica with
a population in excess of 650 thousand inhabitants. Kingston is the seat
of Jamaica's central government, the financial center as well as a secondary
arrival point for tourists, the island's second export earner. A Bank loan
of US$15.0 million is proposed, covering the foreign exchange cost of the
Project and interest during construction on the Bank loan (US$2.5 million).
ii.       This would be the second loan to the Water Commission which is a
semi-autonomous statutory organization with responsibilities for water and
sewer services in the Kingston Metropolitan area. The first loan was made
in 1969 and the works, although behind schedule, are 95% complete. The first
loan was for the provision of water supply and water distribution facilities.
The proposed second loan would have four parts: (a) sewerage collection and
treatment--the largest component; (b) additional water supply and distribu-
tion facilities; (c) studies to aid the choice of the next major water supply
scheme; and (d) technical assistance designed to strengthen the Commission's
management ability.
iii.      The sewerage portion covers two priority needs of a master sewerage
scheme. The first need is to provide a sewerage service to districts where
the present inadequate system is a health hazard and is contaminating ground-
water supplies.  The second need is to allow the removal of a building mora-
torium to permit the construction of high-rise apartments, providing construc-
tion work which will give some relief to the high unemployment and providing
housing in a central area.
iv.       The water supply portion of the project covers:  additional wells
with a capacity of about 11.0 Mgd to provide the population with an adequate
water supply during the dry season and until the next water supply project
is completed; studies for stabilizing the Hermitage Dam and determining the
next source of water to be developed for the Kingston area; and improvement
in the distribution networks to conserve water and facilitate its control.
v.        Pipe and accessories, pumps, and electrical well equipment would be
procured through international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. For the civil works, contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. For the drilling of wells,
contracts would be negotiated with qualified local contractors who have adequate
personnel, equipment, and working capital and successful experience in similar
sized wells. The type and size of these well drilling contracts are such that



- ii --
competitive bidding would not be appropriate. Retroactive financing of up to
US$300,000 is recommended to cover the costs of foreign expenditures for the
drilling of wells and studies that might be incurred after December 1, 1974.
vi.       The Project is the least cost alternative for providing essential
sewage facilities and for guaranteeing the populace with an adequate water
supply. The economic rate of return is 11%.
vii.      The financial performance of the Commission would improve, operating
costs would be reduced, a real rate of return of 4% on the value of the assets
would be achieved during FY 1980 (from -3.5% during FY 1975), and the accounts
receivable would be reduced. The Commission would provide 32% of the capital
investment program between financial years 1976-1979. It would also strengthen
its administration and carry out a personnel training program.
viii.     Provided the conditions listed in Chapter 7 are met, the Project
is suitable for a Bank loan of US$15.0 million equivalent for a term of
25 years, including a 4 year grace period.



I.  INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Water Commission of Kingston, Jamaica has requested the Bank
to help finance a second project to further improve and expand the water
supply system, to construct a first stage of the sanitary sewage system,
to determine the next stage of the water supply and study alternative sewage
disposal methods for the Kingston metropolitan area.  The loan would be
guaranteed by the Government of Jamaica. The Project is estimated to cost
US$33.3 million including interest during construction and a loan of US$15.0
million equivalent is proposed.
1.02      The objectives of the Project are to satisfy the water demand
during 1976-80 while long-term sources of water are being studied and devel-
oped, begin work on the Kingston master sewer plan, and further improve the
organization and management of the Water Commission.
1.03      The Water Commission is presently completing a previous project,
the Rio Cobre Scheme, with a capacity of 12.5 Mgd partially financed with a
Bank loan made in April 1969, 1/ which was designed to meet the average water
demand to about 1976. The execution of this scheme has taken longer than
anticipated due to construction difficulties, labor problems and long delivery
times for equipment. The final completion date is now August 1975.
1.04      Kingston suffers from droughts in the summer months when the water
flow from surface sources diminishes considerably. In 1973 rationing was
necessary through October. Although the Rio Cobre scheme was in partial
operation, rationing and restrictions were necessary in 1974 and 1975. At
the Bank's urging, the Commission engaged a consultant in 1972 to evaluate
the possibility of developing groundwater sources. The consultant's report
concluded that an additional 13.5 Mgd could be obtained. The report recom-
mended a four year program of drilling, testing and development. In 1973,
the Bank retained a consultant hydrologist who examined this report and
agreed with the overall concepts. The proposed project includes two new
well-fields with a capacity of 10 Mgd and improvements to an existing source
which will give a further 1 Mgd.
1.05      To satisfy water demands of Kingston and its adjacent areas after
1980, the Commission is considering developing the Blue Mountain rivers by
either a northern or southern route, and the Wag Water River.  The northern
route schleme for the Blue Mountain supply is in a prefeasibility study level.
The Wag Water Scheme is presented as a desk study by the Commission's con-
sultants and is also at aa prefeasibility stage.  The Blue Mountain Scheme,
southern route is the only long range scheme; it is the most advanced study
and is ready for soil investigation and detailed engineering. It could be
developed in stages to ultimately yield 100 Mgd. The first stage would
require approximately five years for design and construction and would supply
13.5 - 21 Mgd by gravity. The project provides for a review of these schemes
to determine and select the next scheme for development.
1/   See PU report TO-694a of April 9, 1969 and Loan Document of May 14, 1969.



- 2 -
1.06      Under the previous loan progress was made in improving the organi-
zation and management of the Commission. However, the Commission was not
able to achieve an 8% rate of return for the water system as stipulated in
the loan agreement or avoid operational deficits in the sewer system. The
inadequate rate of return resulted from wage increases and delays by the
Commission in obtaining Government approval to increase tariffs.  New water
tariffs were approved and implemented December 1974. A new sewer charge
has been approved and is expected to be implemented shortly. To further
improve the Commission management, the Project would provide for management
advisory services, institutional improvements and a training program.
1.07      The objective of the sewer component in the Project is to reduce
health hazards that could arise: first, from sewage contaminating the ground-
water and entering the water supply system (several wells already show
dangerously high nitrate concentrations), and second, from sewage polluting
the harbor and its tributary streams. To accomplish this, a new sewerage
system would have to be built by stages.
1.08      The sewerage component of the proposed project consists of trunk
mains, street sewers and laterals in the lower part of two sewer areas and
their connection to the existing Greenwich Treatment Plant for treatment of
the sewage before disposal. This plant has excess capacity. A subsequent
phase extending the sewers to the upper parts of these areas will be required
to complete the sewerage and achieve full use of the trunk mains. Provision
has also been made for financial assistance to connect to the sewer and install
plumbing for low-income inhabitants in the two areas, primarily in the Lower
West Sewer District.
1.09      The appraisal of this Project is based on information submitted to
the Bank by the Commission, consultant's reports, and field investigations
of an appraisal mission composed of Messrs. Freedman, and Fernandez in July
1974. Mr. Todd and Mr. Pogson assisted in the financial analysis.
II. THE SECTOR
2.01      The development of the sanitation sector in Jamaica has been
hampered by shortages of qualified technical and managerial manpower and by
financial weakness of the responsible institutions. It is estimated that
out of a total population of approximately two million, over 90% of the
urban population and about 40% of the rural population are served with piped
water. The quality of service in Kingston, however, has been deteriorating
during the dry season of the past five years. To remedy this, additional
supplies of water have to be provided. Kingston and Montego Bay have limited
sewer systems, the rest of the urban communities use soakage pits, septic
tanks, and pit privies. Sewer systems are practically non-existent in the
rural areas. In Kingston, only about 20% of the population is provided with
sewerage. Sanitation is poor in many areas, sewage overflows onto the surface
of the ground, is contaminating the groundwater and is polluting the harbor.



2t4'      The pr±ncipal entitfeo -.- csponsible for the -p.ovision of water
supply and se-werage servinces S.f .            er '7oater .Ommiss iorn (Cot _assionl
( urder t@he Jurisdiction Cf the ti. I      of Public UtiU2 ties, Communications
ane Transpor  (cW-  .n the Kingston - St, Andrew Corpc2ata
Area  (.) the Nationai Water A  t'POricr-    (Authority) which was placed under the
supervision of the same mdLnist-,'     I"  April J975 and which acts in the rest of
the country and (c) thirteen loc.a.  government authorities (Parish Councils).
Both the Commission and the Atn   y suffer from organizational and finan-
cial weaknesses. The Commissiorz lacks technical and managerial personnel at
the top levels, and has too many staff who also receive excessive overtime.
This has resulted in inefficienicy and high operating costs which have off-
set the periodic rate increases a.d have weakened the financial position of
the CommIssion.
2.03       The Authority also suffers from a shortage of qualified technical
and managerial personnel and a weak financial position. It relies on grants
from the government to cover debt service an.d certain operating and mainte-
nance costs; Parish Councils have not always paid the Authority for the
bulk water it has supplied to the.m, and the Ministry of Local Government
has assumed the responsibility for collection from the Parish Councils and
has been reimbursing the Authority directly.
2,04      MPUCT has appointed a new chairman of the Board of Directors of
the Commission who has begun to decentralize the Commission's operation
and maintenance staff, reduce surplus staff and recruit qualified technical
and administrative personne. to fill the supervisory positions.
2.05      The Commission and the Authority are planning substantial water
supply and sewerage investments estimated at US$80 million over the next five
years for which external financing assistance will be required. The Author-
ity's plans include major water supply schemes for Montego Bay, Ocho Rios,
and Mandeville which would benefit approximately 60,000 people. An IDB loan
of US$13 million for the Montego Bay - Falmouth water supply project (US$21
illion) is expected to be approved this year. The feasibility studies of
Ocho Rios and Mandeville were partially financed by an IDB technical assist-
ance loan of US$244,000, The Commission's plans include the proposed water
and sewer project for Kingston and further stages of the Sewerage Master Plan.
2.06      There have been sporadic discussions at a planning level in the
government concerning the possibility of combining the Authority 1/ and the
Commission or modifying their responsibilities to bulk supplier and retail
distributor respectively.  In view of the present institutional weaknesses
of both major organizations, the wide range of responsibilities, and the
technical problems involved, such a change would delay the proposed urgently
needed project and is therefo-e not considered advisable at this time. The
Govzernment should study and establish a plan for the organization of the
1/   The functions of the Parish Councils would be taken over by the Authority
in the first instance.



- 4 -
water supply and sanitation sector, and establish a timetable for its imple-
mentation. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government
will, in consultation with the Bank, complete a review of the organization
of the water supply and sanitation sector within 30 months of the signing
of the agreement.
III. THE PROJECT
Existing Facilities
3.01      The Commission is responsible for providing both water supply and
sewerage service in the Kingston metropolitan area, Jamaica's capital and
commercial center, with a population of about 650,000. The water supply
system serves 600,000 people (90% of the total population) through 60,000
connections. The Commission's water supply system covers an area of 55
square miles. Supply, which diminishes during the dry season to the point
of causing rationing, is derived from both ground and surface water sources.
The Wag Water and Hope River catchments provide the main surface sources and
have been developed in stages since 1893. Water from these sources is
filtered and chlorinated before distribution; supply is mainly by gravity.
Water from wells located in different parts of the supply area is pumped
into the distribution system after chlorination. There are about 800 miles
of water mains of various sizes, 56,000 metered connections and 29 public
standpipes. Per capita consumption averages 50 Imperial gallons 1/ per day
except during periods of drought.
3.02      The sewer system is located in the older part of Kingston near
the Harbor and serves an estimated population of 135,000 (20% of the total
population of the Kingston metropolitan area) through 13,600 connections.
Some private sewer installations serve a small population in a few scattered
residential developments. The sewer system carries an average flow of about
8 Mgd. It includes about 80 miles of sewer lines and three sewage treatment
plants which discharge their effluents into the harbor and the ocean. There
are separate sewer systems with small package treatment plants serving two
housing developments. Five industrial and commercial properties discharge
treated effluents into nearby streams which flow into the harbor. The rest
of the population uses individual disposal facilities such as privies, septic
tanks and soakage pits. In certain areas of the city, the sewage from these
facilities is overflowing onto the surface of the ground. Three wells have
been taken out of service because of excessive nitrate concentration indicating
contamination by sewage. A detailed description of the existing water and
sewer facilities is given in Annex 1 part I.
1/   Comparative data = Managua 50 US GDP.



-5-
The Proposed Project
3.03      The Project is basic to the development of a long-range program
to augment and improve the water supply and to provide adequate sewerage
service for Kingston (Maps IBRD Nos. 11301 and 11302 show the location of
the works). It would be carried out by the Commission in four years and
is expected to be completed in March 1979. Its major objectives are:
(i) to develop additional sources of water to meet the summer
demands and additional requirements of the Corporate Area
until the next stage of a long-range program can be designed
and built;
(ii)  to strengthen the organization, administration and finances.
of the Water Commission;
(iii) to begin a long-range sewerage program in two areas of
Kingston to resolve health problems, protect groundwater
sources, abate harbor pollution and permit new residential
construction;
(iv)  to review various proposals for the development and allocation
of water resources in the Kingston Metropolitan Area and the
Linstead Basin and to recommend the next major water supply
scheme.
3.04      The principal elements of the Project are detailed in Annex 1
part IL.  A summary is given below:
A.   Construction
(i) (1) Wells near Tulloch Springs, in the Linstead Basin
and in the Liguanea Plains; (2) intake works at Hall's
Green and (3) corresponding connections to the water
distribution network;
(ii) Treatment of water at Tulloch Springs and improvement of
the distribution network;
(iii) Inside plumbing, house connections, laterals, street
sewers, pumping stations, and trunk mains to collect and
deliver the sewage from the Lower Western and Upper Central
Sewer Districts of Kingston to the existing Greenwich
Treatment Plant. Existing legislation empowers the Commission
to require property owners to connect to sewer lines which
pass within 100 yards of a property but this power has not
been frequently used. The Commission has agreed to take
steps to ensure that sewerage connections are made to all
properties falling within the project areas, and that all
necessary internal plumbing and water closet installation
will be undertaken. The Commission has also agreed to



-6 -
submit to the Bank for its approval within nine months
of the date of the Loan Agreement a program to provide
technical and financial assistance to low income owners
occupiers unable to meet the cost of such sewer connections;
(iv) Engineering and design studies for the above.
B.   Studies
(i) (1) Water resources desk study to evaluate the north and
south Blue Mountain Schemes, the Wag Water Scheme, the
Linstead Basin Scheme, and to recommend the next major
scheme, and (2) to prepare a plan and recommendations
for the integrated development and allocation of the
water resources (including sewage effluent) of the
Kingston metropolitan area; in the meantime the Commission
has agreed not to undertake during the period of project
execution any investment other than those provided for
in the project, exceeding US$0.5 million in any financial
year;
(ii)  A study to determine the potential yield of the water
resources of the Linstead Basin;
(iii) Studies for the stabilization of Hermitage Dam; and
(iv)  Water and sewer connection survey.
C.   Technical Assistance
(i) Management advisory services for the reorganization and
improvement of the Water Commission; and
(ii) Staff training program in administration and operation.
3.05      The estimated cost of the Project is detailed in Annex 2 and
summarized on page 8. The corresponding investment schedule is shown in
Annex 3.
3.06      Basic cost estimates are based on 1975 prices.  The estimated foreign
exchange component amounts to about 42% of the total project cost (including
interest during construction). Physical contingencies are 15% of the base
cost estimate, and price contingencies 31% of the base cost estimate. For
details see Annex 7.
Amount of Proposed Loan
3.07      A loan of US$15.0 million, is proposed to finance (i) 100% of the
foreign exchange component of USS12.5 million, and (ii) interest during
construction of US$2.5 million. The Commission and the Jamaican Government
would finance the balance of the total project cost equivalent to US$17.4
million and interest on local loans of US$0.9 million.



-7-
Procurement
3.08      Pipe and accessories, pumps and electrical equipment to be financed
out of the proceeds of the loan would be procured through international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Local manufacturers
will be accorded a protection of 15% of the c.i.f. price or the actual tariff,
whichever is lower. For the civil works, contracts would be awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. The size of the contracts
and the type of the work (very labor intensive primarily for the laying of
sewer pipe) are such that it is unlikely foreign contractors would be
attracted. There would be adequate competition, and foreign contractors
would not be precluded from bidding. For the drilling of wells, contracts
would be negotiated with local contractors who have qualified personnel,
adequate equipment and working capital and successful experience in similar
sized wells.   Because of the scattered locations, three separate contracts
are anticipated. There are at least four qualified contractors on the island,
who are in a position to do the well drilling work required. A foreign
well-drilling contractor would have to ship drilling equipment and tools to
Jamaica at considerable expense and might experience delays in customs, thus
necessarily increasing the cost of his services. It is therefore unlikely
that foreign contractors would be attracted or could offer competitive prices.
Disbursement
3.09      The Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of four years.
Disbursements would be made against 100% of the CIF cost of imported equip-
ment and materials, 100% of foreign expenditure cost of consultant services,
interest on the Bank loan and 15% of total costs of civil works represent-
ing the estimated foreign exchange component. Any surplus of funds remaining
in the loan account on completion of the project may be used to finance further
sewer system extensions and improvements in accordance with the master plan
and water meters and accessories to maintain the high level of control of
production and consumption. These would, however, be subject to approval by
the Bank. In order to accelerate the execution of the project, the Commission
began the well drilling work and engineering studies in December 1974. It is
recommended that the Bank approve retroactive financing up to US$300,000 for
such expenditures.
Project Supervision and Administration
3.10      The Project design and supervision and the studies (see paragraph
3.04) to be financed out of the proceeds of the proposed loan would be carried
out by qualified consultants acceptable to the Bank under terms of reference
approved by the Bank.
3.11      During negotiations it was agreed that the appointment of a quali-
fied and full-time Project Manager with adequate supporting staff would be a
condition of effectiveness.



- 8 -
SUMMZiARY OF PROJECT COSTS
J$ (Millions)               US$ (Millions)
Local    Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total
I CONSTRUCTION
Water Supply                  2.71        2.69      5.40    2.98       2.96      5.94
Sewerage                      6.19        4.50    10.69    6.80        4.95    11.76
Subtotal               8.90        7.19    16.09    9.78        7.91    17.70
II STUDIES
Water Resources               0.05        0.18      0.23    0.06       0.20      0.26
Water Connections Survey    0.11          0.05      0.16    0.12       0.06      0.18
Hermitage Dam Study           0,09        0.09      0.18    0.10       0.10      0.20
Subtotal               0.25        0.32      0.57    0.28       0.36      0.64
III TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            0.08        0.08      0.16    0.09       0.09      0.18
IV ENGINEERING AND
ADMINISTRATION                1.00        0.73      1.73    1.10       0.80      1.90
Base Cost Estimate           10.23        8.32    18.55   11.25        9.16    20.41
V CONTINGENCIES
Physical                      1.53        1.25      2.77    1.68       1.37      3.05
Price                         4.04        1.81      5.85    4.44       2.01      6.45
Subtotal               5.57        3.06      8.62    6.12       3.38      9.50
TOTAL COST BEFORE INTEREST   15.80         11.38    27.19   17.37       12.54    29.91
INTEREST ON IBRD LOAN
(during construction)           -         2.24     2.24       -        2.46      2.46
INTEREST ON OTHER LOANS           0.84          -       0.84    0.92         -       0.92
TOTAL COST OF PROJECT            16.64       13.63    30.27   18.30        14.99   33.29
TOTAL TO BE FINANCED BY IBRD                 13.63    13.63                15.00   15.00
For details of construction, see Annex 2.



- 9 -
3.12      Annex 13 shows the indicators which would be monitored during the
execution of the project to measure the achievement of the technical, financial
and administrative goals set for the proposed project. This annex also gives
the values forecast for these indicators. The Commission will be requested
to include in its periodic reports information on progress made in achieving
these targets. During supervision, progress in the project execution will
be evaluated on the basis of these indicators, and if necessary, appropriate
recommendations would be made to the Commission.
IV. JUSTIFICATION
Demand
4.01      The p-esent water system serves 90% of the population; the average
growth in population has been estimated at 3.1% per year and total water
demand is estimated to increase at 2% per year; surface water supplies can
provide 60% of the average daily demand in the rainy season but diminish
greatly during the dry season. In consequence, rationing has been imposed
during each of the last five-years in varying degrees but of five months
duration in the higher areas of the town.
Contamination
4.02      The balance of water supply comes from wells the numbers of which
have been increased in recent times, including the Rio Cobre scheme. However,
in the second half of 1974, three wells with a combined capacity of 3.0 Mgd
were shut because of excessive nitrate. Four other wells with a similar
capacity are now showing increasing levels of contamination which could
cause them to be shut down in 1977. The combined production of these seven
wells is about 19% of the 1975 total production. The high nitrate concentra-
tion is attributed to sewage seepage from septic tanks in areas not served
by the existing sewer systems. The present sewerage system is in bad condi-
tion and only serves 20% of the population. In addition to the health hazards
caused by seepage, overflows and well water contamination, there is further
risk that sewage could infiltrate the water distribution system during periods
of rationing.
4.03      Feasibility studies for a water and sewerage project were prepared
by the Commission's consultants based on the Kingston Town Planning Department
Zoning Map'which reflects recommendations of the 1971 Kingston Regional Plan
prepared with UNDP assistance. The project elements were. selected by the
Planning Department and the consultants to achieve maximum impact in the areas
of the city most affected by drought-caused water shortages and the lack of
trunk sewers. The Project is the least-cost solution designed to resolve
Kingston's near term water supply and sewerage problems.
4.04      The Project would provide sewers in the Lower West and Upper Central
districts and connect them to the Greenwich Treatment Plant which has unused
capacity. Because trunk sewers must be built for the future sewage flows
resulting when the population of the tributary areas has reached the zoning



- 10 -
population density, high initial investments are required. The most densely
populated parts of these two districts house a residential population of
approximately 84,000 and industrial establishments producing wastes equiva-
lent to those from approximately 135,000 people (Kingston's 1975 population
is estimated to be 668,000 of which about 135,000 are now provided with
sewerage). In a future second stage, an additional population of 204,000
could be served. According to the consultants' studies, the harbor can
assimilate the added effluent from the Plant.
4.05      The Project will help the government determine the allocation of
water resources in the Linstead Basin, Spanish Town, and Kingston metropolitan
area where there is a growing competition for agricultural, domestic, and
industrial use.  It will also help the Commission select the next major water
supply scheme to provide water for the future needs of the Kingston metro-
politan area.
Return on Investment
4.06      The major component of this project is the extension of the sewerage
system to two areas of the city. The second largest component is the provi-
sion of additional water (11 Mgd). The project's economic benefits have been
evaluated as:
(a)  Increase in Land Values
The Kingston Town Planning Department has established an urban
zoning plan which provides for substantially higher density
residential and commercial use in the two areas to be served
by the extension of the sewerage system. Evidence from other
areas of Kingston which have a sewer system suggest that
land values in the project areas may increase by 100% in
the Upper Central district and 50% in other areas. These
figures are supported by the Kingston Planning Authority
who regard them as conservative. Although the land values
will increase when the construction moratorium is lifted
it will be the provision of sewers which will permit this
to happen.
(b)  Incremental Sales of Water and Sewer Revenues
Calculations have been made on the sale of water valued at
the tariff imposed in December 1974. As consumers have had
little time to react to the tariff and as water is being
rationed it is too early to calculate the effect on demand of
the price increases. The calculations assume a 10% decrease
in demand from the 1974 levels. Further calculations showed
that the rate of return would only be marginally effected by
a 20% drop in present demand levels. The incremental benefits
of the project have been calculated using the combined water
and sewerage revenues and costs.



(c) Water from Contaminated Wells
As a direct result of the sewerage works, the Commission will
be able to continue using wells at present threatened by
increasing nitrate concentration and will be able to bring
back into service three wells at present out of use. The
estimates of future consumption include the use of these
sources which are reflected in the incremental sales
calculation.
4.07      The economic rate of return of the water and sewerage project has
been calculated in constant prices assuming a project life of 30 years. No
shadow prices have been used. The calculation was made using 40 percent
of the predicted land value increase because, although the lifting of the
building moratorium is a direct result of the availability of sewers, other
infrastructure contributes towards t-he increase in land values, and the
respective benefits cannot be imputed accurately. The economic rate of
return is 11%. 1/
4.08      The economic rate of return calculation does not include a weight-
ing of income distribution effects. However, water and sewerage tariffs are
designed to distribute the cost of the project both on the basis of the
consumer's use of the services and his ability to pay for them. Water service
is charged by means of a progressive block tariff based on water consumption.
The result is that 20% of the water consumers pay 70% of the Commission's water
service income (10% pay 55%). Chart 4 shows the cumulative distribution of
customers versus the personal income, water consumption and water revenue.
Annex 6 shows the percent of income expended for water.
4.09      The above discussed rate of return does not fully measure the
economic worth of the project, because additional benefits not quantified
include:
(i)  the reduction in stream and harbor pollution;
(ii)  the reduction of health hazards due to current sewage
seepage from septic tanks;
(iii) the employment of 300-400 unskilled laborers on construc-
tion work for 4 years when unemployment rates are as high
as 25% in Kingston; and
(iv)  the benefit to landowners of the avoidance of the cost of
cess pits and the annual maintenance costs.
1/   If land revaluation is 20% lower or higher than expected, the rate of
return will be 7.5% and 16% respectively.



- t2 -
V. FHIE BORROWER
Organization
5.01      The Water Commission of Kingston-St. Andrew will be the Borrower.
It is a semi-autonomous government corporation created in 1937 to be respon-
sible for providing water supply and sewerage services in the Kingston-St.
Andrew area.
5.02      The Commission is governed by a board of nine members headed by a
chairman. The members and chairman are appointed by the Minister of Public
Utilities, Communications and Transport. The chairman is the chief executive
officer of the Commission and is empowered to make day-to-day decisions and
call meetings of the full board at least once a month. A new capable and
dynamic chairman has recently been appointed.
Management
5.03      The Commission's efficiency has suffered from the shortage of
experienced and qualified manpower; for example, the post of Chief Engineer
was filled in October 1974 after a six month gap. The Commission has received
a number of consultants' studies, and work has begun on some recommendations
including decentralization of control and reductions in manpower levels.
5.04      Some progress in improving the organization has been made during the
supervision of Loan 598-JM:
(i)  The number of employees has been reduced; 180 were made redundant
in two groups from a total of 2,040 employees. Other employees
will be retrained in new trades and transferred to other public
authorities. This has not been easy to achieve due to strong
trade union opposition and the high levels of unemployment;
(ii)  Consultants' studies have been made on staff decentralization
and a program to achieve this has been approved. A scheme of
job evaluation and position classification has begun; and
(iii)  The Commission has increased the percentage of consumers
- metered from 88% to 93%, simplified the water tariff
structure and obtained the right to collect the sewer tax
direct.
5.05      The expansion of the activities of the Commission now requires the
appointment of a General Manager to implement the organizational changes
needed--under the direction of the Board. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that the Commission would, as a condition of effectiveness, have
employed a full time qualified person designated to assume duties as General
Manager within six months of his employment.



- 13 -
Reorganization and Training
5.06      Led by the new General Manager and assisted by funds from this
loan for technical assistance, the Commission will be able to (a) implement
a program of management reorganization and (b) begin on a program of staff
training. Agreement was reached during negotiations that within six months
of signing the Loan Agreement, the Commission would prepare these programs
and promptly begin their implementation.
Financial Position
5.07      The financial position has deteriorated in recent years, and the
Commission's losses before interest for the financial year ended March 31,
1975 are expected to be about J$1.02 million (1974 losses J$1.7 million).
The Commission has not achieved the covenanted 8% return on unrevalued water
net fixed assets under the previous loan. This was due to the high level of
labor costs and delays in implementing a tariff increase at a time of increas-
ing inflation of operating costs. A number of measures are to be implemented,
many in the next year which should help to restore the Commission to a sound
financial state. These are discussed in Chapter VI.
5.08      With the technical assistance being provided and with the direction
of the new Chairman and leadership of a new General Manager, the Commission
should make significant progress in the next few years.
VI. FINANCES
Financial Performance
6.01      The Commission's past and future financial results are summarized
below. Detailed financial statements for the period 1973-1982 are given in
Annex 8.



- 14 -
--Actual--    -      Forecast---------
(Financial Year Ends March 31)             1973   1974   1975   1976   1978   1980
----------- J$ Million  ---------------
Total Revenues                              5.9    7.3    9.5   13.7   16.2   23.7
Total Operating Wages & Salaries            2.7    3.7    5.2    4.9    5.4    7.0
Total Operating Cost                        4.7    6.2    8.3    8.5   10.2   13.3
Govt. Contributions-Sewer Opng. Deficit   0.4    0.7    1.2    1.6                -
Internal Funds for Investment               1.6    0.9    0.5    0.7    3.9    7.5
Rate of Return - (In real terms)           (1.6)  (2.6)  (3.6)   2.7    2.0    4.0
Operating Ratio -                          78.8   83.9   87.7   62.0   63.3   56.0
Opng. Wages as % Total Opng. Cost          57.4   59.7   62.7   57.6   52.9   52.6
Past Finances
6.02      The Commission's water revenues are derived from tariffs and were
covenanted under the first loan to provide a rate of return of 8% on the
Commission's water net fixed assets unrevalued. Sewer revenues are from
earmarked property taxes but have been traditionally insufficient to meet
even operating costs and in accordance with the Guarantee Agreement of Loan
598-JM 1/ the Government has been subsidizing these operations.
Tariffs
6.03      The Ministry of Public Utilities and the Cabinet approved early in
November 1974 a 60% average increase in the water tariff which has already
been implemented since December 1974. Annex 11 gives the old and new tariff
structures. The new tariff is highly progressive with only two categories:
residential and commercial (industrial). It begins at J$0.30 per 1,000
gallons and rises in six steps to J$1.75 per 1,000 gallons. The average
tariff for residential consumers would be J$1.00 (US$1.10) per thousand
gallons which is high even by US standards. 2/
6.04      The present charge for sewerage service is a land tax payable
by property owners on premises within 100 yards of the sewer lines. Land
1/   Section 5.06 of this Agreement stipulates that the sum of sewer charges
and Government contribution should cover all the Commission's commitments
related to its sewer operations.
2/   In suburban Washington, D.C. the average rate for water is about
US$0.50 per thousand gallons.



- 15 -
in Kingston was revalued in 1974 but the sewerage service charge will continue
to be based on the old value. The new charge is designed to produce a 50%
increase in revenue in the 1976 Financial Year.
6.05      Details of assumed future tariff increases for sewerage and water
are given in Annex 7.
Financing Plan
6.06      The financial plan for the financial years 1976-1979 is summarized
below:
J$       US$      %
---- Million  --
CAPITAL INVESTMENTS
IBRD Project                                  27.2      29.9   77.0
Interest during Construction                   3.1       3.4    8.8
Other Works                                     5.0      5.5   14.2
Total Investment Program                 35.3      38.8  100.0
FINANCED BY
Net Internal Cash Generation                   26.5     29.2
Less:  Increase in Working Capital            7.9      8.7
Less:  Debt Service                           7.5      8.3
Total Available for Investment            11.1     12.2   31.5
Borrowing
IBRD Loan                                    13.6     15.0   39.0
Jamaica Government Loan                       6.4      7.0   18.0
Total Long-Term Debt                     20.0      22.0   57.0
Other Loans                                  0.6       0.6    1.5
Contributions
Government - Sewer Deficit                   3.1       3.4    8.0
Urban Developers                             0.5       0.6    2.0
Total Financing                          35.3      38.8  100.0
6.07      The plan is based on:
(i) IBRD financing of J$13.6 million (US$15.0 million). The Bank
loan is assumed to have a term of 25 years, including 4 years
of grace, and to carry interest of 8-1/2% and a commitment fee
of 3/4 of one per cent;



16 -
iU)  Government loans of J$6.4 million kUS$7.0 millon).  The
Government loan is assumed to have a term of 25 years
including 4 years of grace and carry interest of 8%;
(iii) The Commission's net internal resources for J$11.1 million
(US$12.2 million) for financing of 31.5% of the investment;
(iv)  Government grant of J$3.1 million (US$3.4 million) to meet
deficits in sewer oper-rion.
Assurances were obtained from the government on items ii, and iv.
Future Finances
6.08      The Jamaican Government and the Commission have agreed on a program
to improve the financial state of the Commission by increasing revenues and
reducing costs.
6.09      Agreement was reached during negotiaPions on the following:
(i) The principle that water and sewerage service revenues will
be sufficient to obtain stipulated financial rates of return,
ultimately 4% in real terms for the Financial Year ending
March 31, 1980. The rate of return will be calculated on asset
values adjusted for inflation. For details see Annex 7, para.
1.2;
(ii) that the Government will, as a condition of loan effectiveness
provide to the Bank, and promptly thereafter implement, a plan
satisfactory to the Bank for capitalizing or writing off
overdue maturities of government loans to the Commission
outstanding at March 31, 1975 and up to 50% of the balance
of debt outstanding at that date; and
(iii)  that the Commission would not incur any debt unless its net
revenues for the preceding financial year or 12 months period,
whichever is greater, shall not be less than 1.5 times its
maximum consolidated debt service for any succeeding financial
year.
This should promide a framework for satisfactory financing of operations.
Reducing Water Losses
6.10      According to the records of the Commission there is an average of
ten people per connection. A review of the available information on the size
of families, number and type of dwellings, and census data did not explain the
reason for this high average (the national census records an average family
size of four). The local authorities attributed this to the existence of
numerous "least-lands", tracts of land where the owners permit tenants to



- 17 -
erect shanties and similar dwellings, all served by a single connection to
the water system. Specific data however were not available. A study of the
consumer records of the Commission also indicated many improperly classified
connections and possibly, clandestine connections, which could represent a
loss in revenue. Assurances were obtained from the Commission during nego-
tiations that within one year of the signing of the loan agreement that a
survey of water and sewer connections will be conducted.
6.11      Accounts receivable have been as high as four months due to defects
in the procedures for producing information on outstanding debts, and conse-
quent delays in making disconnections were necessary. Improvements in the
procedures are being made and agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(i) The Commission will within six months of the signing of the
Loan Agreement implement an effective shut-off program for
accounts in arrears; and
(ii)  the Commission will process its accounts more quickly so as
to reduce by March 31, 1977 the receivable to a maximum of
two and one-half months' billings.
6.12      The Commission will continue with its program of reducing the high
levels of labor costs and in particular reducing the excessive levels of
overtime payments. The Commission has agreed to a target specifying the
ratio of operating wages to total operating costs, and agreement was reached
during negotiations to set a target to reduce the figure from its present
level of 62.0% to a level not exceeding 53% by the financial year 1977 and
thereafter not exceed this level.
6.13      Providing that the new General Manager can effectively direct these
programs and the other programs of staff reorganization and training, the
Commission should make a small surplus in the current financial year and
move on steadily during the project period to a sound financial state.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      The following assurances were obtained during negotiations.
A.   That the Commission will:
(i) as a condition of effectiveness employ a full time qualified
person designated to assume full duty as General Manager
within six months of employment (para. 5.05);
(ii)  As a condition of effectiveness of the loan appoint a Project
Manager with suitable staff for the supervision of the project
(para 3.11);



- 18 -
(iii) Through increases in rates and charges for water and sewerage
services and through reductions in operating costs attain
progressively increasing financial rates of return on net
fixed assets to reach 4% by the financial year 1980 (para.
6.09 and Annex 7 page 1);
(iv)  Use its legal powers to cause sewer connections to be made
and within nine months of loan signing prepare a plan to
provide financial assistance for low-income owners and
occupiers unable to finance the cost of these connections
(para. 3.04 and Annex 1 page 15);
(v)  Within six months of the signing of the Loan Agreement,
prepare a program satisfactory to the Bank for
management reorganization and shall promptly there-
after implement the program,(para. 5.06);
(vi)  Within six months of the signing of the Loan Agreement,
prepare a training program satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 5.06);
(vii) Within one year of the signing of the Loan Agreement,
conduct a survey of water and sewer connections (para.
6.10);
(viii)  By March 31, 1977, reduce its accounts receivable balance
to a maximum of two and one half months billing (para. 6.11);
(ix)  Within six months of the signing of the Loan Agreement,
implement an effective shut-off program for accounts in
arrears (para. 6.11);
(x)  Employ consultants acceptable to and on terms approved
by the Bank for studies, designs and construction super-
vision (para. 3.10 and Annex 1 page 11); and
(xi)  It will continue to employ independent commercial auditors
to verify its financial statements
B.   That the Jamaican Government will:
(i)  As conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a)  provide funds to the Commission to meet the sewerage
operating deficit for the Financial Year ending March
31, 1975 (para. 6.07).



- 19 -
(b) prepare a program acceptable to the Bank for the capital-
ization writing off of debt to the Jamaican Government
(para. 6.09); and
(ii)  provide funds required to meet any deficit in the
Commission's sewer operations for the Financial Year
ending March 31, 1976 (para. 6.07);
(iii)  within 30 months of the date of signing the Guarantee
Agreement, complete a review of and define the allocation
of responsibilities of the agencies in the sector
(para. 2.06).



ANNEX 1
Page 1
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
THE PROJECT
I. Existing Facilities of the Water Commission
A. Water Supply
The Corporate Area is supplied with water from surface and
groundwater sources. The surface water is obtained from direct intakes
and a small storage dam on the Wag Water River and Hope River systems to
the north and northeast of Kingston. The groundwater is obtained from
wells in the limestone formations and alluvial soils in the area and a
large spring northwest of Kingston. The capacity of the water system is
32 Mgd, and will rise to 44.5 when the Rio Cobre Scheme is in full opera-
tion.
1. Surface Sources
(i) Wag Water River System
This source consists of the Hermitage Dam on
the Wag Water River at the confluence with one of
its tributaries, the Moresham River. The dam is
about 140' high and about 700' long with a crest
elevation of 1,689. It is of plain concrete and
was built in 1924-27. The dam has a storage
capacity of 300 MG.
From the dam, there is a 21" transmission main
which conducts the water to the Ram's Horn Ridge
Tunnel. The tunnel still in service was constructed
in 1795; it is about 1,400' long and 3' to 6' in
diameter. The water flows through the tunnel and
then into 16" and 12" mains which lead to the
Constant Spring Treatment Plant.
There are also direct intakes on seven other
tributaries of the Wag Water River, Mt. Cressy,
Tweedside, Pulper Waterfall, Andover, Mullet Hall,
Boar and Ginger Rivers. Water from these intakes
can be conducted by a series of transmission mains
to the Constant Spring Treatment Plant. Water from
the Hermitage Dam also goes to the Constant Spring



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Plant for treatment. Raw water from the Ginger
River intake also supplies a small treatment plant
at Sea View.
There is a 21" transmission main which conducts
the water from the dam to the Ram's Horn Ridge tunnel.
The tunnel still in service was constructed in 1795;
it is about 1,400' long and 3' to 6' in diameter.
The water flows through the tunnel and then into 16"
and 12" mains which lead to the treatment plant.
Raw water from the Ginger River intakes also sup-
plies a small treatment plant at Sea View. This plant
is at a high elevation and provides water for the in-
habitants in the immediate vicinity.
The long term average yield of these sources is
about 16 Mgd. During the recent dry season (April
1974 - July 1974) the yield from Hermitage Dam dropped
to 4.5 Mgd.
(ii)  Hope River System
Water is taken directly from the river and con-
ducted by gravity to the Cavaliers slow-sand filter
plant. When the river flow exceeds the demand, the
excess water is diverted to the Mona Reservoir. The
Mona Reservoir was built in 1947, is of the open type
and has a total capacity of 825 MG. The reservoir
developed leaks after construction, which were re-
paired over a period of years. Water from the reser-
voir is either pumped to the Hope Treatment Plant or
delivered by gravity to the Cavaliers Treatment Plant.
The sustainable yield of the river and reservoir is
about 5 Mgd.
(iii)  Transmission Mains
The raw water from the various intakes is conveyed
to the treatment plants by steel mains ranging in dia-
meter from 16" to 33" and having a combined length of
about 27 miles. The mains are considered to be in good
condition.
2. Treatment Plants
(i) Sea View
This is the smallest plant and serves a high
level area north of Kingston. It treats water from



ANNEX 1
Page 3
the Ginger River. It is a rapid sand filter plant
(with mixing, flocculation, coagulation, sedimentation,
filtration and chlorination) with a capacity of 1.4
Mgd.
(ii)  Constant Spring
This is the principal plant with a capacity of
18 Mgd. It treats water from the Wag Water River
System. It has conventional mixing and settling
facilities, clariflocculator units, and 12 rapid
sand filters.
(iii)  Hope
This consists of six slow sand filters with a
total filtering area of 1.12 acres. It treats water
from the Hope River. The plant is operated at a
capacity of 3.6 to 4.8 Mgd and is able to treat up
to 6.5 Mgd when needed.
(iv)  Cavaliers
The plant, substantially in its present form,
was built in 1876. It consists of a raw water set-
tling basin with a capacity of 2.6 MG, four slow
sand filters with a total area of 0.92 acres, and
an uncovered filtered water reservoir with a capacity
of 3.2 MG. The plant is often operated at less than
its rated capacity of 2.9 Mgd because of insufficient
water from the Hope River system.
3. Groundwater Sources
There are thirteen wells in the Long Mountain, Red
Hills, and St. Catherine and Liguanea. The average
yield from these wells is approximately 13 Mgd. The
wells in the St. Catherine area, however, have shown
an increase in the chloride content of the water and
pumping will have to be reduced. Three other wells
with a combined capacity of 3 Mgd located in the
central part of the Corporate Area have been shut down
because the nitrate concentration exceeds 45 ppm, the
acceptable limit under WHO standards. Four other wells
show nitrate concentrations close to this limit and
have to be monitored. This indicates sewage pollution
caused by the use of soakage pits and septic tanks.



ANNEX t
Page 4
There is the danger that the sewage will develop direct
routes to the wells in the limestone formations.
A central sewage system is needed to prevent this
contamination.
4.  Rio Cobre Scheme - IBRD Loan 598-JH
This scheme, to provide additional water for the city of Kingston,
is partially financed by a loan from the Bank. It was undertaken in 1969
and is now substantially complete. Since April 1974 it has been supplying
approximately 7 MGD of water to the city, and when the final adjustments
to the pumping installations at Tulloch Springs and the wells have been
completed, it is expected that its full capacity of 12.5 MGD will be reached.
The Rio Cobre Scheme includes the following elements:
(i) Tulloch Springs Development
Intake works have been built which collect
water from springs fed by the outflow from an
extensive limestone aquifer. The springs are
located in the Rio Cobre Valley approximately 20 miles
from Kingston. The available hydrological data
indicates that these Springs have an average flow
that varies from 12 Mgd in the rainy season to 3.5
Mgd at the end of extreme drought. The optimum
upper limit of development was determined to be 8.5
Mgd and the facilities were designed for this capacity.
The water is diverted to a sump from which it is pumped
into a new transmission main to Kingston. The water is
chlorinated before entering the transmission main.
(ii) Head Works Wells
These wells are located on both sides of the Rio
Cobre Irrigation diversion dam, the Head Works, about
12 miles from Kingston. Water is pumped from the
wells into a collection system, chlorinated and then
injected into the Tulloch-Kingston transmission main.
There are seven wells with an installed capacity of
7 MGD and which are now operated at 5 MGD.
(iii) Transmission Main
The transmission main from Tulloch Springs to
the Head Works Wells is 24" in diameter. From there
to Ferry Hill it is 30" in diameter to Ferry Hill to
accommodate the additional water from the wells. At
Ferry Hill it divides into a new 18" main up to the



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Constant Spring Road where it joins the existing
network and a new 21"/24" main to the existing
Montgomery Corner service reservoir, near the
Cavaliers Treatment Plant. The combined length of
these mains is approximately 20 miles.
(iv) Balancing Tank and Reservoir
A reinforced concrete tank of 250,000 MG capa-
city was built at Caymanas along the transmission
main between Spanish Town and Ferry Hill. The pur-
pose of the tank is to reduce the fluctuations in
pumping head at Tulloch Spring and the Head Works
Wells. A reinforced concrete reservoir of 1 MG
capacity was built at Harbour View to provide the
necessary daily storage for this area.
(v) Distribution Lines and Meters
Approximately 10 miles of pipe ranging in diam-
eter from 9" to 24" were installed to increase the
efficiency of the distribution network. Two booster
stations were built in downtown Kingston, and addi-
tional pumps were ordered for the Ferry Hill Booster
Station, to improve service to the high area in its
vicinity. Because of manufacturers' delays brought
about by strikes, the pumps will not be delivered
until July 1975.
Bids have been awarded for 10,000 domestic water
meters for new connections and to replace worn out
meters.
5. Distribution Network
The distribution network is divided into several pressure zones
with a total length of mains (four inches in diameter and over) of about
800 miles. The pipe is mainly of cast iron, which was used extensively
until 1967. At that time, asbestos cement pipe came into use for economic
and corrosion resistance reasons.
B.   Sewerage
There is a limited amount of sewerage in the Kingston-St. Andrew
area, the largest system of which is operated by the Water Commission. The
facilities cover about 16% of the area and serve about 135,000 people. The
estimated average flows are 8 MGD. The remaining population uses soakage
pits and septic tank systems.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
1. Collection System
There are about 80 miles of laterals and sewers of 4" to 12" in
diameter and about 5 miles of trunk mains 9" to 421 in diameter. The
pipes are mostly vitrified clay tile and the siphons are of cast iron.
The more recent pipeline installations are of asbestos-cement and plain
concrete pipe. The manholes are of brick and concrete with cast iron
frames and covers. The mains need to be repaired in some places and
relieved of their load with additional trunk sewers. Sewage from the
laterals and street sewers flows by gravity into three trunk sewers which
flow from east to west.
The Low Level Trunk sewer, which serves the harbor area and
adjacent districts is the oldest, having been built in 1893. It discharges
by gravity into the Darling St. Pumping Station and from here the sewage is
pumped to the Western Sewage Treatment Plant through a 21" diameter main.
The sewer is below sea level and there is speculation that the earthquake
of 1907 may have affected its carrying capacity. The Harbor Redevelopment
Scheme, however, is following the master plan and installing new lines which
will reinforce the capacity of this sewer. The low level trunk sewer is
9,000 ft. in length, from 9" to 22" in diameter, and has 49 manholes.
The Mid Level Trunk sewer to the north of the Low Level Trunk
sewer was built in 1939 to relieve the load on the Low Level Sewer. It
is 8,734' in length, from 9" to 24" in diameter, has an inverted siphon,
and has 33 manholes. It flows by gravity to the Darling Street Pumping
Station from which the sewage is pumped to the Western Treatment Plant.
The High Level Trunk sewer to the north of the Mid Level Trunk
Sewer, is approximately 18,000 feet in length, from 12" to 42" in diam-
eter, and has two inverted siphons and 82 manholes. It was built in
1925 and serves the upper portion of the sewered area in Kingston. It
discharges by gravity into the Greenwich Sewage Treatment Plant.
2. Treatment Plants
The Western Plant was built in 1937 and serves those areas
drained by the Low Level and Mid Level Trunk Sewers. It has grit cham-
bers, communitors, primary clarifiers, sludge digesters and drying beds.
It provides primary treatment and discharge its effluent into the Harbor
near the Tivoli Gully. The plant has a rated capacity of 3.5 MGD.
The Greenwich Plant serves the area connected to the High Level
Trunk Sewer and receives about 1.5 Mgd. The plant was completed in 1971
and has a capacity of 5 Mgd. It has grit chambers, communitors, primary
clarifiers, sludge digesters and drying beds. It provides primary treatment
and the effluent is discharged into the Harbor.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
The Harbor View Plant was completed in 1972 and has a capacity
of 834,000 GDP. It is located at the east end of the city and serves
the small residential and industrial area there. It has grit chambers,
conmunitors, aeration tanks, sludge digesters and drying beds. It pro-
vides secondary treatment and discharges its effluent (outside the Harbor)
into the ocean.
There are package plants of the extended aeration type serving
the residential areas of Duhaney Park (0.8 lIgd capacity), Hughenden (0.2
Mgd capacity), Independence City and eight small industries and institutions.
They discharge their effluents into the nearest watercourses.
There is also a low rate trickling filter at the University of
the West Indies and a septic tank and disposal field at Palisados Airport.
3. Outfalls
The sewage effluent from these plants is discharged as follows:
Plant                                Outfall
Greenwich Plant                 3,740 ft. in length, 4" diameter
into the Harbor in 36' of water.
Western Plant                   300 ft. in length, 36" diameter
into the Harbor in 36' of water.
Duhaney Plant                   1,300' pipeline to Duhaney River.
Hughenden Plant                4,000 pipeline to Sandy Gully.
Harbor View Plant              500' pipeline, 16" diameter with
diffuser, 25' depth, to sea.
Both the Duhaney River and Sandy Gully empty into shallow
Hunts Bay which is partially shut off from Kingston Harbor by a causeway
and bridge.
4. Operation and Maintenance
Operation and maintenance of the sewage treatment facilities
with the exception of the Greenwich Plant is deficient. The design of
the Harbor View Plant is poor and makes the plant difficult to operate.
The Hughenden and Duhaney Park Package Plants are not achieving the desired
degree of treatment, and the effluents are polluting the groundwater and
surface water courses. The combined capacity of these plants is nearly 11 Mgd,
but the larger plants are being operated at far below their capacity. The
soakage pits and septic tanks in several of the populated areas are overflowing



ANNEX 1
Page 8
onto the surface of the ground.  In the rainy season the situation is particu-
larly unpleasant because the wate- table rises causing more sewage to overflow
and form ponds in the streets and yards.
Most of the trunk mains do not have the capacity to carry the
present or future flows. Additional mains and pumping stations will have
to be installed to provide adequate service.
5. New Sewer Works
The Water Commission is completing some sewer works in the Jones
Town area. This area is very congested with narrow streets, irregularly
shaped lots, and many tenement buildings. It is located near the center
of the city. These works with an estimated cost of J$780,000, are in
accordance with the master plan.
In July 1972 sewer extensions were completed in the Denham Town
area at a cost of J$68,964.
6. Sewer Income and Tariffs
Sewerage expenses have increased at a greater rate than revenues.
The present revenue is obtained from rates based on property valuations,
which have not been adjusted for many years. (A revaluation study was begun
in July 1974 and is now completed). The sewer charges were paid to the
Government Collector of Taxes until May 1, 1974 when the Water Commission was
authorized to do the billing and collecting directly.   There has been a
gradually increasing deficit that is being met by Government grants. These
grants, however, are not paid until both the Collector of Taxes Office and
the Water Commission have completed their accounting.
II. Description of the Project
Water Supply
Sources
In October 1972, the Commission's consultant's prepared a scheme
for stabilizing the yield of the Tulloch Springs to 8.5 Mgd even during
the dry season when the flow has decreased to an average of 3.5 Mgd accord-
ing to available flow records. This scheme consists of the drilling of
wells in the extensive limestone aquifer from which the spring and the
Rio Cobre are fed. The water from these wells would be pumped through a
pipeline to the Tulloch Springs Pumping Station and thence to the Kingston
water system.



ANNEX 1
Page 9
Pumping from the aquifer during the dry season would reduce the
flow of the Rio Cobre the waters of which are used for irrigation in the
St. Catherine Plains. Irrigation works were built in 1874 and water rights
for a minimum of 79 Mgd have been established. In order to maintain this
minimum flow, compensation wells would be drilled in the same aquifer and
the water pumped to the river through a pipeline.
The Commission's consultants estimated that another 13.5 MGD (and
ultimately 25 MCD) to supply Kingston could be developed in the Linstead Basin.
The Bank retained the services of a consultant geologist in May 1973 who
examined and agreed with the general concept of the scheme. He recommended
a 3-4 year program of drilling and testing before further development of
these groundwater resources.
This groundwater scheme involves the operation of numerous wells
and pumps and the repumping at the Tulloch Springs Station. The costs for
power and labor are rising at an unpredictable rate, directly affecting
the cost of this water. There is also the competition for use of this
water by agriculture, industry, and cities of Spanish Town and Kingston
in different parishes.
Another consultant of the Commission prepared a feasibility
study for a surface water development, the Blue Mountain Water Supply that
could be developed by stages to supply ultimately 100 Mgd. The first
stage would require 4-5 years for design and construction and would supply
by gravity a flow of 13.5 - 21 Mgd.
The first stage would include a diversion dam, tunnels and pipe-
lines, and a treatment plant at a high elevation commanding over 60% of
the cities' population. The Commission is already successfully operating
similar treatment plants. The capacity of the tunnels would be suitable
for the future stages which would require pumping.
The Project
The project provides for the drilling of four wells northwest of
the Tulloch Pumping Station to supply up to 6 Mgd as needed. It is expected
that the wells would be 16" in diameter, up to 600 ft. in depth, and produce
an average of 1.25 Mgd each. Water from the wells would be pumped directly
into 8" mains of about 1 mile in length leading to the Tulloch Pumping
Station,   These wells would be used to maintain a flow of 8.5 Mgd from
Tulloch. (Map IBRD No. 11301 shows the location of the water facilities in
the Project.)
Another group of wells would be drilled in the Liguanea Plains
within the metropolitan area of Kingston. These wells would be 12" - 16" in
diameter, up to 400 ft in depth and have a yield of approximately 0.75 Mgd
each. The water would be pumped directly into the adjacent mains in the



ANNEX 1
Page 10
dsistribution network through short connecting branch mains, 6" to 8" in
diameter. The water would be disinfected by chlorination. The combined
output of these wells (4 Mgd) would be for the water supply of Kingston.
A third group of wells would be drilled in the Rio Magno Valley
north of Tulloch Springs. These wells would be used in the dry season to
compensate for the reduction of flow in the Rio Cobre. It is expected that
4 wells would be needed, 16" in diameter, up to 600 ft. in depth, and have
an average yield of 1.25 Mgd each. The water would be pumped through about
3.5 miles of 8" branch mains to a 24" pipeline. This pipeline, about 2
miles in length would convey the water to the Rio Cobre River near Linstead.
A well will be drilled near Halls Green intake works and pumping station
and a new 16" pipeline installed from Halls Green to the Boar River trans-
mission main. This will augment the supply by an estimated 1 Mgd.
Hermitage Dam
The major reservoir of the water system is formed by the Hermitage
Dam on the Wag Water River about 2.5 miles (4 miles by channel) east of the
town of Golden Springs. The original storage capacity of the dam was 460 MG
and by 1962 it had been reduced to 360 MG by silt. Another 75 MG was lost in
1963 because of more silting caused by Hurricane Flora, leaving a net storage
of about 285 MG. Silt removal with a floating dredge was begun and by 1970
the capacity had been restored to about 360 MG. Tn 1974, at the end of the
drought in August, the reservoir was practically dry so that bulldozers and
trucks were able to excavate and remove much of the silt before heavy rains
caused the reservoir to fill.
The Commission's consultants have analyzed the structure of the
dam and found it to be unstable according to modern theory. They have
recommended that it be strengthened by several methods but have not pre-
pared detailed plans and cost estimates for a selected solution. Breaching
of the dam would send a flood wave that could damage life and property down-
stream at Golden Spring. The project provides for a study to define the best
method for stabilizing the dam and the related cost estimate.
Water Resources Studies
The Kingston metropolitan area will continue to need water for
industrial and domestic purposes and dispose of its waste water. Waste
water, properly treated, could constitute a valuable water resource and
be used for irrigation.
The Ministry of Agriculture is planning to increase the use of
water from the Linstead Basin for irrigation. Many of the irrigation
wells in the St. Catherine's Plain are showing increasing salinity. The
Ministry estimates that there are 36,000 acres primarily in sugar cane
under irrigation, 4,000 additional where irrigation can be improved, and
10,000 additional acres that can be placed under irrigation.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
Water will also be needed for future residential development in
the St. Catherine's Plain. Such development is taking place near Spanish
Town because of the new highway to Kingston. Property values are cheaper
than in the Kingston area which is now only 30 minutes away because of the
new road.
Consequently, the various regional needs -with respect to water
must be evaluated and the possible sources and transmission of water
studied.
The proposed project contemplates two studies related to water
resources, (a) a study to determine the long-term yield of the Linstead
Basin, and (b) a study for the regional allocation of water resources.
Evaluation of Water Supply Studies to Select the Next Major Water Supply Scheme
The Commission and the Government are considering several schemes
for the next major water supply development for the Kingston metropolitan
area. These studies vary in their level of preparation from desk studies
to a feasibility study (pre-engineering) for the Blue Mountain Water Supply
(Southern) from which one can proceed to the detailed engineering. Because
of the relative sizes, costs, and yields of the project, it has been decided
to make a desk evaluation of these studies to select and recommend which
scheme will be undertaken next. This evaluation will be done by a special
consultant and the project provides for this. It was agreed during negotiations
that the Commission would hire a consultant on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank to carry out this study.
The schemes that are being considered are the following:
Blue Mountain Water Supply (Southern) - prepared by consultants
for the Commission and planned to satisfy the needs of the area
until the year 2000. It would be developed in four stages and
eventually furnish 100 mgd. The first stage would provide
13.5 Mgd by gravity and divert water from the Yallahs River,
convey it through tunnels and pipelines to a new treatment
plant at a high point commanding 60% of the city. This is
the most complete study and permits detailed soil borings
and detailed engineering to be undertaken.
Blue Mountain Northern Supply - estimated to provide up to
15 Mgd. It would divert water from several rivers and
convey it through a series of tunnels to the Hermitage Dam.
Additional transmission mains and treatment facilities would
be required. This is very preliminary and requires site studies,
hydrologic and geologic verification, and detailed cost estimates.
Devon Pen - Castleton Supply - prepared by consultants for the
Commission and planned to provide 6-8 Mgd. It consists of intake
works on the Wag Water River, pumping stations and a pipeline



ANNEX 1
Page 12
to an existing transmission main from the Boar River to convey
the water to the Constant Springs Treatment Plant, This has
been prepared as a desk study and requires site investigation,
hydrologic and geologic verification and more refined cost
estimates.
Linstead Basin Groundwater Supply - proposed by the Commission's
consultants. It would consist of two groups of wells, one to
provide water for the Kingston metropolitan area and the other
to compensate for reduced flow in the Rio Cobre River which is
used for irrigation downstream. There would be collector mains,
booster stations, transmission mains and interconnection with
the Kingston water supply distribution network. It is estimated
that an additional 13.5 Mgd could be furnished Kingston. To verify
the yields of the groundwater aquifer, and the location and size
of the wells, a groundwater drilling and testing program is
necessary and this is provided for in the project. Following
this more detailed engineering is necessary to determine the
most suitable design and refined cost estimates.
Tulloch Springs Filter Plant
Recent studies by consultants of the Commission have shown that
a solution channel may have developed in the limestone formation between the
Rio Pedro and the Tulloch Spring so that contaminated surface water could
enter the system during certain periods of the year. In order to safeguard
the purity of the water supply, a diatomaceous earth pressure filter will be
installed at the site of the pumping station to facilitate its operation.
Improvements in the Distribution System
Hope Filter Plant
During the dry season this plant which serves some high areas of
Kingston cannot be operated at its capacity of 6 Mgd and processes only 3
Mgd. This is because during this time the Hope River flow is too low to
provide water and water is transferred from the Mona Reservoir by a pumping
station and force main with a capacity of 3 Mgd. In order to permit the
transfer of more water to the Hope Filter Plant, the pumping capacity will
be increased to 5 Mgd and a new 16" force main installed. The intake works
and raw water conveyance systems at the Hope River and Mona Reservoir will
also be improved.
Institution of Pressure Zones
Based on studies made by the Commission's consultants, the dis-
tribution system will be divided into several pressure zones. This will be
done by installing valves and interconnecting lines at selected points in
the system. The zoning of the system will prevent excessive pressures in



ANNEX 1
Page 13
the system thus reducing leakage and wastage. It will also control the
draining of the water from higher areas to lower areas and make for a more
satisfactory supply in the higher areas.
Leak Detection and Repair Program
A survey will locate leaks in the distribution system and a program
of making repairs will be carried out.
Replacement of Defective Mains
There are numerous undersized and leaking mains in the system
that restrict flows causing unsatisfactory service as well as wasting water.
The studies made by the consultants have located these mains.
Source Measurement for Proper Control
New measuring devices will be installed at all sources of production
so that an efficient control of the system can be exercised and the real
production known. These devices will be Parshall flumes, Venturi and Dall
meters, and mechanical meters as necessary.
Sewerage
A master sewerage scheme for the Kingston-St. Andrews' area was
prepared in July 1973 by another consultant to the Water Commission. From
this scheme high priority areas were selected, one for health reasons and
the other for economic reasons. The plan is divided into stages and pro-
vides for the collection and transport of the sewage to a main treatment
plant, either the Greenwich Treatment Plant or a new one at Harbour View,
and final disposal cf the effluent in the harbour or in the ocean at
Harbour View. Th.e plant has unused capacity and can easily treat the addi-
tional sewage load. According to the consultants the assimilative capacity
of the Harbor will not be reached with the proposed project and its subsequent
stages. Following thls the design and construction of the transmission main
end Harbor Head outfall (which is the preferred solution) will need to be
undertaken.
Because of the growing competition for water resources, the feasi-
bility of using sewage effluent for irrigation is to be studied and the master
plan reviewed to.this end. The areas selected for inclusion in the project
would not be affected by modifications to the plan.
Work in these high priority areas is divided into phases and the
first phase takes into consideration population density, ability to pay,
and need. An inspection of the selected areas revealed that the septic
tanks were overflowing and discharging sewage into the streets, even under
the present long-term drought conditions when the water table was low.
Three wells have been taken out of service because of high nitrate concen-
tration, indicating contamination by sewage.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
The areas to be sewered in the project are the following (see (Map
IBRD No. 11302):
Lower West Sewer District
Washington Gardens
Patrick City
Duhaney Park
New Haven
Upper Central Sewer District
The Lower West Sewerage Scheme includes laterals, street sewers,
trunk sewers, pumping stations and force mains. Sewage from Duhaney Park,
w4hich now flows to the Duhaney Park treatment plant, will instead flow
directly to the existing Duhaney Park Pumping station. From this station
the sewage will be pumped through a new force main into a gravity flow trunk
sewer to be constructed through Washington Gardens, and the Duhaney Park
treatment plant taken out of service.
The sewage from Washington Gardens and Patrick City will flow
through the new gravity trunk sewer to a new pumping station in Nance Pen.
Part of the sewage from New Haven will also flow by gravity to the Duhaney
Park Pumping Station and the rest will be conveyed by the new New Haven pumping
station and force main to the new Nance Pen Pumping Station.
From the Nance Pen Pumping Station the sewage will be conducted
through a new 30" force main to the existing Greenwich Treatment Plant.
The Upper Central Sewerage Scheme includes laterals, street
sewers, and trunk sewers. The area to be served is bounded by Hope Road,
Eastwood Park Road and West Kings House Road. Laterals and street sewers
will be installed in this area and drain by gravity to a new trunk main on
Maxfield Avenue. The trunk main will be built from Hagley Park Road along
Maxfield Avenue to the Spanish Town Road where it will connect with an
existing 42" trunk sewer that goes to the Greenwich Treatment Plant. A
branch trunk sewer built along Grove Road from Half-Way Tree Road to the
trunk main on Maxfield Avenue.
Plumbing Installations and House Connections
In order to ensure the optimum use of the sewers and to accelerate
the rate of connection, funds are provided in the project for household
plumbing and connection lines to the street sewers primarily for low income
residents in the Lower West District. The Commission is legally empowered
to require such installation or do them directly, and extend financing at up
to 5% interest and 20 years repayment time.



ANNEX a
Page 1 of 3 pages
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWRAGE I AND WATER SUPPIY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER CaQISSION
COST ESTIMATE
SEWERAGE
.J$ 1000                   US$ 1000
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
A. LOWER WEST DISTRICT
WASHINGTON GARDENS
1. Trunk sewers, street
sewers and laterals          937        683     1,620   1,020        752     1,772
2.  Nance Pen Pumping Station    599        255       854     660        280       940
3.  Pumping Main to Greenwich    333        489       822      366       538       904
Subtotal  1,869     1,427     3,296   2,046      1,570     3,616
PATRICK CITY
Trunk sewers, street
sewers and laterals        1,319        963     2,282   1,452      1,058     2,510
DUHNEY PARK
Pumping Main                   25        37        62      28         40        68
NEW HAVEN
1.  Sewers and laterals           365       267       632      402       294       696
2.  Pumping Station                45        19        64       49        21        70
3.  Pumping main                   10        15        25       11        16        27
Subtotal    420       301       721      462       331       793
B. UPPER CENTRAL DISTRICT
Trunk sewers, street
sewers and laterals        1,058        772     1,830   1,165        848     2,013
C. HOUSE CONNECTICNS, PLUMBING    1,500      1,000     2,500   1,650      1,100     2,750
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION              6,191     4,500    10,691   6,813      4,947    11,760



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3 pages
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
COST ESTIMATE
WATER SUPPLY
J$ 1000                 US$ 1000
Local   Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign   Total
A.. WELLS, PUMPS AND PIPELINES
TULLOCH SPRINGS
1.  Site Investigation                       23        15.      38    26         16       42
2. Drilling and Testing (5 wells, 600')  145           84      229   159         93       252
3.  Equipment and Headworks (4 wells)        23       105      128    25        115       140
4. Branch Mains, Wells to Tulloch
Pumping Station, 4 lines, 1 mile,
8" Diameter                             99         34      133   109         38      147
290       238      528   319        262      581
LINSTEAD BASIN
1.  Site Investigation                       18        12       30    19         14        33
2.  Drilling and Testing (5 wells)         145         89      234   159         98      257
3. Equipment and Headworks (4 wells
600o)                                  107         24      131   117         28      145
4. Branch Mains, Wells to Pipeline
4 lines, i mile, 8" diam.               12         13       25    13         14        27
5.  Compensation Pipeline, 2 miles, 24"   187         201      388   206        221       427
469       339      808   514        375       889
LIGUANEA PLAINS
1.  Site Investigation                      117        82      200   129         91       220
2.  Drilling and Testing (7 wells,450')   173         106      279   190        117       307
3.  Bquipment and Headworks (4 wells)        83       146      229    89        158      247
4. Branch Mains, Wells to Distribution
system. 4 lines, i mile, 8" diam.       77         26      103    85         29      114
5.  Pumphouses (4)                           20         8        28    22         8        30
470       366      839  515         403      918
HALLS GREEN
1.  Intake Works                             20         5       25    22          6        28
2.  Pumps and Equipment                     15         25       40    17         27       44
3.  Pipeline and Connections                55         25       80    61         27       88
90        55       E7 L5  0                 160
Subtotal                        rT7       L          2,320 1,450    1,100    2,550
B. TREATMNET AND DISTRIBUTION
Tulloch Spring Filter Plant            100        455      555   110        500      610
Hope Plant Transfer Main               240        164      404   264        180      444
Pressure Zones                         370        409      779   407        450      857
Replacement Mains                      450        309      759   495        340      835
leak Detection Survey                  300        191      491   330        210      540
Master Meters                            -        100      100    -         110       110
Subtotal                        1,460     1,628    3,088 1,606       1,790    3,396
TOTAL CONSTRUCTION              2,780      2,628    5.408 3,056      2,890    5,946



ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3 pages
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
COST ESTIMATE
STUDIES AND MISCELLANEOUS
J$ ':.000                    US$ 1000
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign   Total
Water Resource Studies           50       180       230       60        200      260
Water Connection Survey        110         54       164      120         60      180
Hermitage Dam Study             89         89      178        98         98      196
Subtotal             249       323       572      278        358      636
Technical Assistance
Training                     80         -        80        90        -         90
Management Consult.                     80       80        -          90       90
Subtotal              80        80       160       90         90      180



ANNEX 3
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
INVESTMENT SCHEDULE
In US$
Item                       1976      1977       1978       1979       Total
Construction
Water                 1,600      2,390      1,500        450       5,940
Sewerage                --       3,750      5,610      2,400     11,760
Subtotal          1,600      6,140     7,110      2,850      17,700
Studies
Water Resources          100       160        --         --          260
Water Connections         50       130        --         --          180
Hermitage Dam             80       116        --         --          196
Subtotal            230        406        --         --         636
Technical Assistance         20        100        30         30         180
Engineering and
Administration           380       760        570        190       1,900
Base Cost Estimate        2,230      7,406     7,710      3,070      20,416
Contingencies
Physical                350      1,310      1,530        710       3,900
Price                    130     1,360      2,510      1,610       5,610
Subtotal            480      2,670     4,040      2,320       9,510
TOTAL BEFORE INTEREST   2,710    10,076    11,750         5,390      29,926



ANMEX 4
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF QUARTERLY DISBURSEMENTS
IBRD                                    Cumulative Disbursemenl:s
FY and Quarter                                 at End of Quarter
US$ (000)
1975/1976
September 30, 1975
December 31, 1975                                      1,225
March 31, 1976                                         1,650
June 30, 1976                                          2,980
1976/1977
Septembier 30, 1976                                    4,310
December 31, 1976                                      5,640
March 31, 1977                                         6,970
June 30, 1977                                          8,330
1977/1978
Septembier 30, 1977                                    9,690
December 31, 1977                                     11,050
March 31, 1978                                        12,410
June 30, 1978                                         13,060
1978/1979
September 30, 1978                                    13,510
December 31, 1978                                     14,160
March 31, 1979                                        14,800
June 30, 1979                                         14,900
Septemler 30, 1979                                    15,000



JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
In 1975 Constant Prices J$000
1                     2                3                 4           5                  6            7             8
Total            Incremental        Net Benefit          Revenue     Value                           Total          Net
Investment       sales - billion   per                  Benefit      Land              40% Of        Benefit      Benefit
Year       J$                gallons            thousand gallons   (2 x 3)       Appreciation    Column 5        (4 + 6)      (7 - 1)
1976       3360                                                                                                               - 3360
1977       S070                0.44              Revenue               290        3000              1200          1490        - 6580
1978       7340                0.70              J$1.24                462       18000              7200          7662        +  321
1979       3520                0.96              per 1000              634       15000              6000          6634        + 3114
1980       4350                1.20              less                  792        9000              3600          4392        +  040
1981       4090                1.50              JVO.58                990        9000              3600          4590        +  500
1982       3580                1.77              Cost                 1168        9000              3600          4768        + 1181
1983                                             per 1000             1221                                        1221        + 1221
1984                                             = 0.66               1254                                        1254        + 1254
1985                                                                  1287                                        1287        + 1287
1986
-2005       Note 1                                Note 2                           Note 3
Notes
1. IBRD Project plus future sewer works.
2. Revenues based on a combined water and sewerage tariff.
3. The appreciation in land values as estimated--Upper West Area J$2/sq ft; Lower Central Area J$0.70/sq ft; Other Areas J$0.70/sq ft.



JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
APPROXIMATE WATER COSTS AND INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Household 1'  % in each 11    Cumulative    Number.g'of       Approximate          Yearly      Assumed       % of
income group   household            %         connections    water consumption   Payment       Average       Income
J$ per year    income group                   for that %      1000 gallons         for water   Annual        Expended
per month           J            Income J$    in water
500 or less       30               30         16308               3.3               15.64         260        6.0
501 - 1,000       20               50         10872               6.63              45.7         750         6.1
1001 - 2000       20               70         10872               8.9               75.0         1500        5.0
2001 - 3000       10               80          5436              12.0              125.0         2500        5.0
3001 - 4000       6                86          3262              14.0              156.0         3500        4.45
4001 - 5000       4                90          2174              16.0              173.0         4500        3.8
5001 or more      10              100          5436              36,0              576.0
TOTAL
1/ Interpolating between the 1971 and 1980 curves from F. Oberman, Cost Analysis for Proposed Regional
Developing Plans, Vol. I, UNDP, 1971.
2/ Assuming a direct correlation between income and water consumption.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Introduction
The latest financial data submitted by the Commission are thei.r
internal accounts for the 11 month period to February 28, 1975. These have
been adjusted for a full year and are the base used for financial projections.
Projections for Financial Years 1976 to 1982 take into account:
capital works pirogram of this project and the assumptions that tariffs will
be raised to meet the rates of return agreed upon during negotiation.
1.0 Water Volume Sales and Revenues
1.1 Water Tari.ffs
The water tariffs were increased by about 60% in December 1974.
1.2       The projections assume further increases on the order of 15% on July 1,
1977 and July 1, 1978, July 1977 and 25% by July 1979 to achieve the following
real rates of return:
Financial Year Ending           Minimum Return
March 31, 1976                  1.0%
March 31, 1977                  2.0%
March 31, 1978                  2.0%
March 31, 1979                  3.0%
March 31, 1980                  4.0%
Thereafter                      4.0%
1.3       These rates of return would be calculated on the combined water
and sewerage system assets adjusted for inflation.
1.4 Sewerage Tariffs
(a) The tariff is to be increased during the year ending March 31,
1976 so as to yield a 50% increase in revenue.
(b) The Government will make grants to the Commission for losses on
sewerage operations:
J$1.6 million in FY76
J$1.5 million in FY77



ANNEX 7
Page 2
1.5 Water Sales and Connections
(a)  The average water consumption per connection is expected to
decline as many of the new connections will serve apartment
buildings rather than large houses with gardens and because
the recent and projected tariff increases will reduce revenues.
Studies suggest a demand elasticity of 6% - 10% with a higher
effect on revenues because of the progressive tariff structure.
(b)  As 90% of the population is at present served, the total
number of connections is assumed to grow at a rate of 2.3%
annually.
1.6 Sewer Connections
(a) The assumptions are that new sewer connections will be made
as follows:
FY             New Conrections
1977                   2.040
1978                   3,000
1979                   3,060
1980                   2,680
1981                   3,660
1982                   1,600
(b)  Consumers will pay J$200 as a connection fee.
2.0 Inflation
2.1       Internal inflation is measured by the Kingston Metropolit:an Consumer
Price Index (CPI). Domestic Inflation reached annual rates of 15% in 1973
and 26.5% in 1974.  Government measures have begun to reduce the rate of
increase and the projections assume rates of:
1975      24%             1979       15%
1976      15%             1980       10%
1977      12%             1981       10%
1978      15%             1982       10%
(a)  Operating Costs
The increases in operating costs are based on the above figures.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Project Cost Inflation
2.2       The estimates of the costs of the project have been increased
using the Domestic Inflation index for the local component and using con-
struction and equipment costs for similar projects.
Price Contingencies
Year            Local Supplies       Foreign Supplies
1976                 15%                  10%
1977                 12%                   9%
1978                 15%                   8%
1979                 15%                   7%
Asset Value
2.3       For Asset Valuation purposes a factor of 85% of the Kingston
Consumer Price Index has been used. Past figures show this a reasomnble
approximation to the GDP deflator and the use of the CPI figures is -referred
because of ;hier more timely publication.
Devaluation
3.0       The Jamaican dollar is projected to maintain its present relationship
to the US dollar on the assumption of continuing demands for Jamaican bauxite
and a continuing low price elasticity.
Operating Costs
4.0 Wages and Salaries
It is assumed that the Commission will reduce the present excessive
scale of overtime payments by the following percentages, taking the 1975
overtime cost as 100.
(a)  FY76, reduce the 1975 amount to 75% and then increase by
the inflation factor for 1976;
(b)  FY77, reduce the 1975 amount to 25% and then increase by
the inflation factors for 1976 and 1977;
(c)  For following fiscal years, overtime has been projected
an 25% of the level applicable in the 1975 fiscal year.
The Jamaican authorities have agreed to a target of reducing the wage/salary
element of -otal Operating Costs from the 1975 level of 62% to 53% by March
31, 1977.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
4.1  Other Operating Costs
The other operating costs are projected to increase in proportion
to the volume of water produced and at the inflation rates given in para. 2.1.
5.0 Balance Sheets and Financial Plan
5.1 Jamaican Government Long-Term Debt
(a) Agreement was reached that the Jamaican Government would
restructure the long-term deb_ of the Commission to the
Covernment by either capitalization, partial forgiveness
or a combination of methods. The Jamaica Government will
submit proposals for Bank approval. The projections
assume that this will be shown in the Balance Sheet as
at March 31, 1975 and projections assume:
(1)  A Government contribution of J$1.2 million in
respect of earlier year 3ewer operating deficits.
(2) A Government contribution of J$5.7 million
being the overdue interest and overdue principal on
Jamaican Government Loans as at March 31, 1975.
(3) A further contribution of J$9.40 million as a
reduction of long-term debt.
(b) The Government Loan for this project is assumed in the
amount of J$6.28 million repayable in 25 years at 8%
interest and with a four-year grace period.
5.2       The Water Commission is exempt from taxes other than Social
Security and is assumed to remain in that status.



JAFtAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COSMMISSION
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
(S$ MILLIONS) (VOLUME IN MILLION OF IMPERIAL GALLONS) - FISCAL YEAR ENDING MARCH 31
197S       1974         ¶079        197h        1977        1978        1979        ¶ I0Q       1961        I 9A2
'  .-*---.w.-......................--.. -'_........._._.......... _-._...................  ._.....__,__.,..........,  ...... I.._..............
pnPL TTtnN-TwnOs$OANl)            h,no        6a4,nn      8ROn 0        P9,20      71n0,A      733,n0      7s59,0      778,an      801 ,8n     825,80
POPULATION SFWVED-OATER           570,'6      $94,o0    hn3,qo        624,00       653,82      683,28      71t-,44     760,10      778,60      797,50
POPULATIOn  SEWVED-SEwE4           12?,nn     130,25       1350no      139.91      163,48      1Q7,91      23o,17      272,44      312,10      330,32
X POP'OLATTON SERVED-wATER          90,93       q1,67       V0,36       90,54       Q1,98       93,22      Q9,58        p7,6S       97,13       96,57
WATFR CONNECTIONS.IHOUS,            5e,0        60,00n      61,00       62,40       64,10       65,70       67,40       69a10       70,80       72,50
SEWER CONNECTION$.THOUSAN           12.9q       13.16       13,64       1 5,99      16,03       19,03       22,09       24.77       2s,43       30,03
% POPULATTON SERVFO-SF4FR           20,00       20,10       20,2n       20,30       23,00       27,00       31,00       35,00       39,D0        40.00
VOLUME SnOtIO.MILLION TI           I0,9?       10,78       10,93       11,04       11,46       11,74       12.00       12,27       12.54        12,81
CnNsUHPTION/CnNNFC/HnNTH            15,47       14,Q7       14,93       14,75       14,03       14,89       14,e4       1(480       14,76        14,72
UNNACCOUNTFO FOD  WATER X           25,0n       25,0n       2S,00       25,04       22,0o       20,0D0      160O        1,h  O      16,00        16,00
WATFR PROOUCTIDN.MTLL,TTG           14,ss       14,37       t4,57       t4,73       14,72       14,67       14,64       1'461      l,93        15,25
PER CAPITA DRODUCTION LCD         31A.60      29A,28      297,48       290,96      277,63      264,77      252,59      236,97      236,13      235,69
RATER RFVENUES                       5,46        6,9O        A,q6       12.92       13,3?       15,3S       17.77       21,Y6       24,80       28,14
SEWER REVENUES                       0,418       0,4         O,O         0 77        0,77        0,83        2,00        2,00        ?,00         2,40
TOTA( RFVFNUFS                       4,1  7,34               9,46       13,69       14,09       16,18       ¶0,77       23,69 2b,60             30,14
WATER PERSONNEL                      2,36        S,19        4,46        4,tl        3,72        4,28        a,42        5.46        6,0b         h,73
rHw8FC'^UF                           ^,;2        O . ; '-0,i"  0,I       0,i6        n,20        0,23        0,27        0,29        0,33         0,37
POWFR                                A2,2        0.27        n ,s        0,67        0,75        0,86        0,98        t,0s         1,21        1,36
MATERIALS                            0,13        0,14        0,1S        0,17        0,19        0,?2        P,I;        0,28         0,31        0,3a
, --,---_. ...... .--.- .. .. - .._ ..... ::...... -__.,                     , _ _._. .... ...... _.,.......  .. ,__....... ,__
DIRFCT CnsTS-WATER                   7,R?        3,73        S,37        S,13        4,86        s,s9         ,4a2       7,t2        7,92         6,81
SEWER PERSONNEL                      0,32        0,93         ,^69       O,6S        0,°2        t,t°        1,31        1.49         1,73        1,95
SEwFR MATFRIALS                      0,n1        o,nt        o,n1        0n01        0,01        0,01        0,0?        0,02        0,02         0,03
OTHER SEWFRAGE COSTS                 (,04        o,n4        0,07        o,07        0,09        0,13        0,17        0,21         0,27        0,31
____..... ,... ....__ .  .. ......  .......  ...... _  ,.. _ ...... ._. .__....... _. . . _., , . . ............_, ....., I.. _*
DIRFCI C0OSS SEWFRAtE                0,07        n,97        n,7         0,8a8       ¶,03        1,24        1,49         t,72        2,02        2,29
:=:===Z=:  ::::===z  z=::::==  :::::===  ==::=:=:  :=::::::  ::==m=:::   :=:===::  ::=::=:  ===cm===
TnTAL DIRECT COSTS                   3,?0        4,3n        6,n9        6,01        5,89        6,83        7,92        6,63        9,94        11,09
AOMINISTRATTON                       1,32        I.63        1,91        2,15        2,43        2,84        3,35        3,72        4,14         4,59
OTHER INDTRFCT CoSTS                 0,1        0,22        0,30        0,33        0,51        0,57        0,64        0,72         0,77        0,83
=:::::=:  =::==:==r  :::::5::  :::===:==   ==::::::  ==::====  ::::::==   ===:;==:=  ==:==::=  ====:s===
TOTAL CnSTS                          4,68        6,tS        8,30        8,49        8,R4       10,24       11,91       13,27       14,85        16,92
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION           1,2I t,l9               1,t7        5,20        5,P5        s,sa        7,8h       tn,a2       tt,9         13,82
DFPRFCTATION                         1,73        2,21        2,49        3,a4        3,92        4,46        5,13        6,01         6,84        7,76
:=::====   C=::==:=:  :::::::=   ::===::=  =====:::  ===:====   :==:::::=   :::=====  =:::=:==   ==:====:=
INCOME BFFORE INTEREST              -0,47       .1,02      .1,79        1,66        1,33        1,a8        2,73        4 41       S9t,          5,86
INTEREST CHARGED OPF9.               0,89.       0,97        4,h9        1,11        I,n?        0,9t        0,94        2 S1         2.46        2,40       D
NON ODFR,FVFNUES 1+1               -0,03        0,n2       .1,1         0.25                                ).A 0,7R  , Rn.,7       t,t         n,69
NET SURPLIJS                        -1,35       ,t,47       .7,62        0,80        0,77        1,39        2,99        2,77         3,63        4,1t I
AVERAGE RATE HASE                   30,45       39.62       5n, 6Oh69 6h, P             1       74,1        90 ,8      11,2 I P    127,69       146,46
*OPERATING RATIO %                  78,83       83,8S       87,67       62,02       62,72       63,27       60826       sb,12       55 a2        54,82
*RATE OF RETIJRN X                  -I .,Sh6     97          .3,a9       2,72        ?,0o        2,o0        3,0n        4,00         4,00        4,00
AVERAGE WATFR TARIFF $/TIG           0,90        0,64        0,62        1,17        1,t,        1,31        1,48         1,77        1t9a        2,20
SEWER REVfNIJE $/C0NN/MDNTH          3,n8        2.79        3,nh        4,59       4a,0         3,63        7,S4        6,71         5,8h        5,55



JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
CONSOLIDATED FLOW OF FUNDS STATEMENT
(J$ MILLIONS) - FISCAL YEAR ENDING MARCH 31
1973        I974        197S        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982
SOUIRCES OF FUNDS
z==m:zC=zz:=:::m
INCOMF BEFORE DEPRECIATION           1,26        1.19        1,t7        S,20        5,25        5,94        7,86       10.42       11,95        13,62
NON OPER,REVFNUES(NET)              .0,03        0,02       .1,14        o,25        0,46        n.78        n,80         o,87        1,18        0,65
GROSS INTFRNAL GENERATION            I           1,2 1       0 05        s,45        r"71        6,73        A,hh       11,29        t3, 12      t4,7
GOVFRMFNT CONTRIBUTIONS              0.40        070        16,90        1,60        1,50        0,00        0,00         n,0         0 ,00       o,no
DEVELOPERS CONTRIH(UTIONS            0,16        0,10        0,13        0,13        0,13        0,13        0,13         0,13        0,13        0,13
I8RD LOAN                            0 ,00       o00         0 o0        1,37        4,47        4.22        1,33         0,00        000         0 ,00
NATIONAL LOAN                        0,00        0.00        0, o             40     1,Y3        21 2t?      O9           0 00        0,00        0,00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST                 000 oQ00                00 0 0      0,15        0,U7        1,01         1,44        o,oO        0,00        0,00
TOTAL LOANS FOR PROJECT              0 00        n,no        o,no        2,01        h7s         7,35        3,76         n,nn        n,nn        0oo
OTHFR LOANS                          2,89        1 44        0 ,00       0,o          0,0        0o,o00      0,0          5.00        6,00        5,00
TOTAL OTHFR LOANS                    2,89        1,44        00          0o,no       0,00        0,00        0,00         5,00        6,00        5,00
......,.....__. ,_,................... _.. .  ....... _. ...... ....  ....... . ........,___._ ......._. .........  ........ .............  ........
TOTAL LOANS                          7,A9        1.44        0.00        2,01         .A78       7,35         A,7h        5,0(        h,0o        s,o0
CAPITAL TNCREASE                    n0.1         0,1o        0,0 0       000         0,00        0,00         n ,    o   000          0,00        0,00
SNoRr rFRM LOANS                     0,n0        o,77        0,55        0.00 o,00               0,63        00o          0 ,00       0,00        0,00
::::::::  mzz=z::z  :Z======  ::::==::  ::::::::  =:zm=:zz  :,:=a=::   ::::::::  ::::::::  ::::::=:
TOTAL SOURCES                        4,82        4,32       17,6t        9,19       14,12       14,84       12,55       Ib,42        19,25       19,40
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
INVESTMENT IN PROJECT                0,00        0,00        0,00        2,46        9,t5       10,62        4,96         0,00        0.00        0,00
CAPITALIZED INTEREST                 0,00        0,00        0,00        0,15        0,47        1,01         1,44        0,00        0,00        0,00
OTHER INVFSTMENT                     5,09        4,12        3,30        1.20        0,31        0,36         0,43        8 ,1a       843         8,12
OTNF4 WORKS FXCESS CASH              0,15        o,nn        ,00         0n,00       1.19        0,00         1,53        4.52        7.03        7,63
t    ... .. ..,__. ..........  ......._,,..  .. ..___....  ........ ... .. .. . ..  .__....... _._ .. .. . ..  .,....... _ . ,. .. _._._. ._
TOTAL INVFSTMENT                     5,23        4,12        5,3n        3,A2       11,13       t1,99          , 3h      12,hh       15,46       15,75
hORD AMORTIZATION                    0,n0        0,0         0.ono       0,0    0     ,00        0,00         0 ,00       0,25        n,2e        0,30
NATIONAL PRnJECT LOAN AMOPT          0,00        0 00        0,on        0,00        0,00        0,00         0 o   o0    0,12        0,13        0,15
OTHER LOANS AMORTIZATION             0,05        0,26       11 ,;        0,44        o,ao        0,37         0,39       o0,4         0,42        0,a4
SHORT TERM LOANS AMORTIZ.            0,oO       0o,n    0     ,00o       a58         0,74        0,00         n,63        0,00        0,00        0,00
,_ ,, .... .. _*.,                              .,,, ....... _  .... .   ...... _ ,. __ .......__,, .._,,. ^...... _., ._ .__.
TOTAL AMORTIZATION                   n,05        0,26       11 58        1,02        1,14        0,37         ,n2         o,78        n,f3        0,89
OPER,INTPREST LONG T,LOAN            0,85        0,07        4,6n        0,96        0,94        0,Ql         0,87        2,51        2,46        2,40
OPER,INTEQEST SHORT T,LOAN           o,0o       0o,00        0,9         o           o,o 0,1o 0,08  0,00      0,07        0,00        0,00        0,00
TOTAL ODERATION0L  INTEREST          0,85        0,07        0,.'        *,11        t,^,        C,                       2,51        2,46        2,40
TOTAL DERT SERVICE                   0,on        1,75       16,?7        2,13        2,17         t,28        t,8         5,29        3,29        3,29       ¢
INCREASE TN WORK,CAPITAL            -1,23       -091        -.2,08       4,05       .0,88        0,47         0,83        o,87        0,51        0,76
INCREASE  TN OTHER ASSETS           .0*,0        0,t13       0,13       .n 8n        1,70         1,10        I,a0      .*,ao         0,o00       0,40       X
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                   4 ,s2       4,52       17,61        9,19        1,12       14,sa        12,55      ,1642        19,25       19,40
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                   1,36        0,Q8        0,n0        2,56        2,63         5,25         ,a41       3,43        3,q9         4,34
X FUNDS FOR INVESTMENT               6,66       .0*,6    .433,45        54, 5       39,45       S1,qo        60,83       65,83       67,26       70,14
X FOR INV/NET FIXED ASSET            1,03       -0.05      .2Q903        a,63        a,24        h, 18        6,54        6,39        6,78         h,70



JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET STATEMENTS
(J$ MILLIONS) - FISCAL YEAR ENDING MARCH 31
¶973       s974        1 97        1976        1917        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982
A 5sF T R
.-.-.--....
FIXED ASSFTS IN OPER,              84,87      104,84      133,60      156,76      172,75     202,24      243,81      278,79      315,95      358,55
MINIUS ACClJM,DEPRECTATION         38,11       48,90       61,83       73,26       84,65      99,91      117,77      133,79      152,nl      172,6h
-----* -------* ~.--* *. -, *--.- -.-- .. ..  -;  .   ........ *-;            .. _ .....  ........  ............. ....
NFT FIXED ASSETS                   46,77       ;Z,94       71,77       83,A 0      88, t0 o02,33         126,0n      14s,no      163,94      185,87
WORK IN PROGRESS                   10,49       13.76        9,69        7,38       18,51      23,03        1,h60      14,o0 16800            16,00
CASH AND RANKS                      0,29       .0,75       *2,tn        0,30        0,37        0,43        0,49        0,SS        0,61        0,67
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                 1,19        1,79        2,38        3,70        2,96        3,37        4,11       4,93        5,3h        b,03
INVENTORIFS                         0,52        0,98        0,28        0,55        0,39        0,45        0,52       o,57        0,64        0,72
OTHER CURRENT ASSETS                0.68        1,56        0,49        0.60        n,60        0,60        O,hO        0,AO        0,60        o,6b
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                2,hA        s,n8        1,05        5,1$        4,3?        9,85        5,72       b,hS         7,21       8,02
OTHER ASSFTS                        3,40        3,27        3,40        2,60        4,30        5,40        6.80       6,40         6,40       6,00
=:::::::  :====a=::  :=:::-=   =5=:ZZ          ===e ====   ====  ==a==    === == _             ===u=    5= =z
TOTAL ASSFTS                       63,33       76,06       85,q9       98,63     115,23      135,61      154,16      172,05      193,55      215,88
EFQIJTY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY                             24o4,       246 25,56                  56       29,96      24,56       24,56       24,96       24,56       24,56
CONTPI6UTIONS                       0,96        1,36       18,39       20.12       21,75      2 1,8A      22,01       22,19       22,27       22,40
REVALUATION SURPLUJS               15,78       26,32       37,73       46,88       55,940     66,63       79,68       90,39      102,72      116,65
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS                -1,08       -3,06      -20,67       -9,87       -9,11      .7,75       "5,17       .2,40         1,43        5,54
TOTAL EQtJTTY                      39,72       a9,1a       70,nn       -1,69       92,6      ¶05,31      121,08      134,69      150,97      169,14
,,, .... .                         ..           .......  ........   ,....................  ....
LONG TERM DEBT (NET)               P2,47       12, 3       11,89       I3,I0 19,Q1             26,87      296h        34,0n3       A9,14      45,19
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE                    0,89        2,20        2,25        2,30        2,35        2,40        2,45       2,50         2,55       2,bO
CURRENT MATURITIES                  0,26       11,58         ,a44       0,ao        0,37        0,39        0,78        o,83        0,89        O,95
OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES           000         0,00        0 ,00       000         0,00        0,0 0o00 0n,o00                     o,00        0,00
TnTAL CURRENT LIARILITIFS           1,19       15,78        ?,ho        2,70        2,72        2,709       3,23         ,33         ,44        3,59
SHORT TERm DEBT                     n,0n         ,77        !,33        0,74        0o0         0,3         0,00        0,0n       n0,          0,00
OTHER LIABLITIES                   0,00        0,00 °oon               0,00        0,00        0,00        0,00        0,00        0,00        0,00
RESERVES                            000         0,00       0o,n00        ,0         0 ,o00       ,00        0,n00         00 0n,0n0  0o 
~~~~~====-=        =   = ---     ---    ---    -----       ---- I..   ... ..       ......      .....    .. - ......
TOTAL LIABILITIES                  23,6       p6,8A       1g,91       16,95       22,63       30,30      33,09       37,5b        42,5A       46,74
===:=:=:  ====:=:z  :=:-::==   =--=:=:=  :=:==:==  ==:::====  ===:==m=:  :::===::   :==:::=:  =:=::::=
TOTAL EQUTTY-LIABILITIES           63,33       76,06       85,91       98,63      115,23     135,61      154,16      172,05      193,55      215,88
CURRENT RATIO                       2,35        0,22        0,39        1,Q1        1,5J        1,74        t,77        2 o0        2 1,        2,26
OEBT/(ODFBT+EQUITY)               36,13       ?0,nS       14,52       14,19       17,70      20,33        19,78      20n17       20, 5 9     2n,34
WORXTNG CAPTIAL                     1,79       0o,8        -t,20        2,85        1,97        2,4S        5,27        I,15        4,6         5,42      X
o



ANNEX ll
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
WATER TARIFFS
PREVIOUS TARIFF APPROVED IN MAY 1973
Water consumption, Imperial Gallons                     J$ per
Thousand Imperial Gallons
Domestic:  Up to 4,000                                  0.30
For the next 3,000                           0.50
For the next 3,000                           0.75
For the next 3,000                           0.95
For any additional gallons                   1.00
Commercial:  Any amount                                 1.10
NEW TARIFF APPROVED NOVEMBER 7, 1974
Water consuffption, Imperial Gallons                    J$ per
Thousand Imperial Gallons
Domestic:  Up to 3,000                                  0.35
For the next 3,000                           0.70
For the next 3,000                           1.05
For the next 3,000                           1,35
For the next 4,000                           1.40
l'or any additional gallons                  1.75
Commercial! Any amount                                  1.75
Government!                                             1.75



ANNEX 12
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON W9ATER COMMISSION
ASSET CODES AND DEPRECIATION RATES
Main        Secondary       .Asset Name                            Life      Deprecia-
Code        Code                                                   Years    tion Code
Number      Nunber
1             1              LAND                                             1
2            13              BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES                40         4
3             2              RAW WATER PIPES, WELLS,
RESERVOIRS
2             Reservoirs                            50         3
3             Intakes                               25         6
14            Wells                                  20        7
5             Transmission Main                      40        4
6             PUmS                                   15        8
4                            DISTRIBUTION SYSTEI
8             Distribution lines                     40        4
9             Distribution pump-stations            30         5
10              Storage tanks and reservoirs         40         4
11             Service lines                          25        6
12             Meters                                 15        8
21             Line feeder                            40        4
5             7              WATER TREAT.MENT PLANTS               30         5
6                            FURNITURE & EQUIPMENT
16             Office furniture & equipment           10        9
18             Stores equipment                       10        9
19             Tool shop & garage equipment          10         9
20             Laboratory equipment                  10         9
22             Power Operated equipment              10         9
7            17              TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT               5        10
11           14              Sewerage Treatment Plants             30         5
12           15              Street Sewers                         50         2



JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER CONMISSION
Monitoring Indicators
1973      1974       1975       1976       1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982
TECHNICAL INDICATORS
Total Population (thousands)                 630.0      648.0      668.3     689.2      710.8      733.0      755.4      778.4      801.8      825.8
% Population Served - Water                   90.5       91.7       90.4      90.5       92.0       93.2       94.6       97.7       97.1       96.6
% Population Served - Sewer                   20.0       20.1       20.2      20.3       23.0       27.0       31.0       35.0       39.0       40.0
Connections Water (thousands)                 58.8       60.0       61.0      62.4       64.1       65.7       67.4       69.1       70.8       72.5
Connections Sewer (thousands)                 13.0       13.2       13.6      14.0       16.0       19.0       22.1       24.8       28.4       30.0
% Unaccounted For Water                       25-0       25 0       25.0      25.0       22.O       20.0       18.0       16.0       16.0       16.0
Water Produced (millions gallons)             14.55      14.37      14.57      14.73     14.72      14.67      14.64      14.61      14.93      15.25
Water Sold (millions gallons)                 10.92      10.78      10.93      11.04     11.48      11.74      12.00      12.27      12.54      12.81
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Consumer Price Index Increase - %             14.90      20.50      24.00     15.00      12.00      15.00      15.00      10.00      10.00      10.00
Operating Ratio - %                           78.80      83.90      87.80     62.00      62.70      63.30      60.30      56.00      55.40      54.80
Total Operating Wages                          2.68       3.72       5.15       4.91      4.64       5.38       6.23       6.95       7.79       8.68
% Opng. Wages/ Opng. Costs                    57.30      60.50      62.10     57.80      52.50      52.50      52.30      52.40      52.50      52.50
% Return Revalued Assets                      (1.56)    (2.57)    (3.58)        2.72      2.00       2.00       3.00       4.00       4.00       4.00
% Accts. Rec./Billings                        20.00      24.30      25.20      27.00     21.00      20.80      20.80      20.80      20.00      20.00
7. Revenue Effectiveness Index 1/             75.60      75.10      74.60     75.00      77.80      79.90      81.80      84.00      83.90      84.10
Debt Service Ratio                             1.36       0.98       0.00       2.56       2.63      5.25       4.41       3.43       3.99       4.34
I/ Revenue                                                                                                                                                     L
Volume Produced
unit price water sold



JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
Proposed Org8niation Stroctore
MIN1TER OF PUC UTILITIES
COMMUNIACATONs AND TRANSPOR
.EN RAL
MANAGER
A|ALYST  OF SFOMES  STAFF TARY     OFFICER                    OFFICE                    TOTTI     T                 O     ,ENGINE.
EItSTSF                     OSIIT I                   AFT-NN-F                    -FIoC                IT                                                           E-G                        N
ALY~~~~~~~~~~T                                                                                                                                  Z-N                                                                            EL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTFI-L~~~~~~~~~T   
e.L,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ai* xl  ;X+<
IAFINANClAL             |                            [            -              0E                                                         k






JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
WATER SUPPLY DATA AND PROJECTIONS
18                -_ _ _ _ _ _ _
16
EFF-ECT OF
ASSUMEDSENSITIVITY                  00011
14OTO RATE INCREASE
z
0
0
LU
z U                                                      
0D  10                        WAE  RDDUCTION        
z                                    EF   CLE\i                            DROUGHT
U) 
0                                                                                                                                                             0
O        Do                                               A AVERAGEVWATER CONSUMPTION .                                               . .----.
X IL o /~~~~~~~~~~~~(RIGHTSCALE                                                                                                                           >   - ,. ,,  -  
LU
600                                                                                       Ole                                                                  60
o        <         TOTAL POPULATION                                                                                                                                     C__
z                  I     LEFTSCAL                                                                                                                                       m
cn                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
:D  400       4                                                                                          DECLINING AVERAGE PER CAPITA                               40  0
o 00  CONSUMPTION DUE TO 40>
o
1-                                                                                                       SERVICE EXTENSION TO_
I                          -                                                                                                                                            -X LOW INCOME CONSUMERS  >
Z\ P~OPULATI~ON SERVED                                                                                   AND CHANGING HOUSING                                            m
I-  200       2                                LEFTSCALE)                                                PATTERN                                                    20
<                                                                                    i
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0                                            _
'55  '56  '57        '    '60  '6'62  '63  '64'65'66  '67  '68  '69                  '71  '72  '73'74'75          6'76 77Y'78 E79   80 31 82
40                                 ~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~AC IUAL                                                    PROJECTED
YEAR ENDING MARCH 31
World Bank-9225



CHART 3
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATFR COMISSION
WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS
850.0                                                                    E5
800.0           -                    Q  TOTRL POPULRTION                 E0
750.0                                                                    75
-  POPULRTION SERVED WRTER
700.0                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 0
660.0                                            WATER  CONNECTIONS    65
600.0                                                                    60
550.0                                                                    55
500.0                                                                    50
M~~
Uz- 450*0F                                                                  45
~45O.o I-
40
CD
CD 
I:400.0  _-                                                                 4 
C- 300                                                                          0 _  35
CE 300.0  _          ~X POPULATION SERVED SEWER1RGE,                3
3 250.0                                                                     25
300.0  -                               X 4 S       SEWER CONNECTIONS_2
150.0                                                                    15
1973.0        1975.0        1977.0        1979.0        1981.0
Y E R R



CHART 4
JAMAEICA                          -
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
CUMULATIVE DISTRIBUTION OF CUSTOMERS. PERSONAL INCOME
WATER CONSUMPTION AND WATER REVENUES
--F---------------            ---      -        
;          ~~~~~F
A_                        /         1.
83 .,
*, c:                                      / . 
>   r                     ,                        /   j~~~~/ 
1 U .3 - i  -                           1/    #
X,.   ,       /                    ,~~~~/ //   A
'--              ~~~~,WATER CONSUMPTION  F   _-    AL
c->~~   r        .                          PERSOjAL INCOME         f
i N..          /             ,--V            
r /        -1 l ,.J  .-A WATER REVENUES        
,~~~~~~~~~~~ ;-,F_    J                          iI..A_.- U.il_.-il    tij         [
/     - J-                     , <         5 ............   i . .



4.          a
JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
KINGSTON WATER COMMISSION
ACTIVITY AND CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR                           1975                       1976                        1977                        1978                        1979
QUARTER                    I      2   __    4          1     2      3             1      2      3     4       1      2      3      4     1      2      3      4
CONSTUCO  B  D  concurrently
Water Supply                                                            E B C concurrently
E     B      DI            E  B  D
mii. in im    mm   mimi mmii  logo, u.mii IN         i a ull s,  mm...l
Sewerage                                                    B             c
Connections and                                                    B       C
Plumbing-                                                                      -      -      -      --                   -     -       -
STU DIES
E
E
Water Allocation                                   I      * _ms
Linstead Basin                                    _mu1       m   w_                    _ __ __  - mm                                    - "1m *_
r r W. K W  , W PW,A
Hermitage Dam                                     _        _   f        _   E
Connection Survey
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Training                                                  wm  __             m __ __ __-_a*_ -  m                                      _
ManagementW                                                                                             I       IF" .
LEGEND:
p,  z   - Soil Boring, Investigation, Drilling and Testing                      E Engineering
auaaaaaaaaa Equipment Supply                                                   B Bid
inC     ivil Works, Installation                                               D Delivery
mm  m  * Studies, Services                                                     C Construction                                                         World Bank-9328(R)
Oct. 1974



_ __________ _______________________ _____________________________________                                                                                                   IBRD -11301R
0<9                                     C                                                          /                                                                                                                                  FE<  \ °  /  SFBRUARY A1975
.9% ,iz             sx S < ->7                                                                                                                                     JAMAICA
KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND
WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Ti,           <,g9  'i,' LzreSx Sai j<--                                                                             A                                                       KINGSTON  WATER COMMISSION
*NSTEAD 0- 00               24t-                                                                                                                                                       WATER SUPPLY
FINAL ENGINEERING
I                                                                               PI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LUE MOUNTAIN
GTAGE 1     PROPOSED  EXISTIN
, 0                           ,                              /                                                                                                                                                                 --< a-3- \ t u PUMP  NG ETA LN'i
,% ,,   -; <X                                                                                                                                                                   'I; fi      %<5-                                    pWE5
U                              U ~~~~~~~~~~~~RSEGENOIRS
-   DAMS
PIPEL NE5
BOG  WALK        TULLOCH SPRING INTAKL
9< X H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERMITAGE DAM                                                                                                                            RA LWAYS
R VFRS PERENNIAL
' .^g IIILAIM<PLR IVERS  SEASONAL
CANALS
,,  0   a   XCONSTANTSVNING \    S                                                WATER CAMMISSION SUPPLY UREA
HEAUGUEKS LAM
I-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-       RU0                                          ' . 970 GLA tOE -MA                                                               b b  e  a r    a          5   70ANIS
WNJS                                                                                                                      -V .  RR'SSOE 'i <  GI  . 
BOO' A TPeoAoo  F~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    /S                                                /        A bO                               BR I"
N/A  OUNIAMA ~~~~~~~~ U9RRNUAS REP,~~~N                                                                         O
J  UAVSA A c    C                                                                   1    2    3    A0
~~~~URAR  A                                                                                                                                                                                                                     VA,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



A   1                                                                                                                                                                                          FEBRDI   11302R
JAMAICA
PA RT Of                                                    KINGSTON SEWERAGE I AND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
4drE?   HAT 2uMpIvA4REP                                      fP wEST C/Sr /k/CT                                                                              KINGSTON  WATER COMISSION
-ls  84>e/SQro   FF  (uv, 2                   j                                                                                                                 SEWERAGE
r LiOWER  WEST D/STM/C7 OT     L-      ;  f         2 \ f   0:         \;0    0: \                  JM,PA  Of                                                                            AREAS TO -T SK/RS11E
;''SRI_/ .                                                                                                           /5/6 Vk/CT                                                                             S TOK PUMING RAINS
r                -                                                      I W                                           |    :; i    ;                                        ;                                                             M S K EWiH-
//                                                                                   t                                                                                  i1 i + SI ~ i " 7s 2 wus*X*641;;t *Z1 &; \ ;&t \ q ; z S 2z r5 , m NATN  lWEh
j \9 t pt 5 U   ;   L  5   ;t   /   ~    ;'~    ¢                         v**         i              D: -, ,0j, _    j * U j ; ;.; py;,&; .. ' ! j5             .,...   POSSE INTRUNKTl N5KL ARKrS
f 1ri;      5 S0     ;    PA.. 7  f9   f                                                                                               */   - RI ¶0   TRINOr STOKRN
*  k7/"                          <AIfp4AV I                                                                                                                                                 TO SW NO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NII  1-  ~1
-EREEROASTO
\/IIvROI                                     A                         '                                                                                                                                      TIKIORAI; 'nS/;.~~ ..'"  "' : ;':"4 
< 0l ie  .  ZG> r   |
1:                                      1     4    >                                                            :'                                                         4              7        w; ^- ,fia9
.-.-.-~ ~ I --JNARITN
.... ,.    C                                            / .......~... ',,
ST  /                                                   P     O, SO
-  N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ MN
N  N   9'                                  s4..  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'   ~~~~~~~                      A'~~~RSAERRVOIR                                                                  f
K  -  (    .  Tv,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ,.   AFT;f5A4111/A~ ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~ ~00~
N  I         TV                                  J~~~~~~~mvII9,~~~~~~~j4                                                                                                   -~~~
N   /                    41         N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AI  5                  .                                                             I    IA      301~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
R                                                                                                                      4'E
"77  '<4'jt       /           /A                    17/                             5 1                                        'V 
AE  II-I 1E/'I                             -N
"N   1/4/"'>             A /s                               /                                                                                      -1-
A/                  \ S   T       iT1V''%/H5 1A '/ e1.                       4            A?HROR                                                                        V,



