Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3157 GE
Project Agreement
(Enterprise Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
CENTER FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING AND MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE
Dated January 27, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3157 GE 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 27, 1999 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and CENTER FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING AND MANAGEMENT 
ASSISTANCE (CERMA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Georgia (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that CERMA agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CERMA the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to CERMA on terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS CERMA in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CERMA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and CERMA shall otherwise agree, CERMA shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule  
to this Agreement. Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03.  CERMA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, and maintenance) in 
respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. CERMA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, CERMA shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or 
waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) CERMA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
CERMA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by CERMA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of CERMA 
Section 3.01. CERMA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. CERMA shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs 
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and, financial 
practices. 
Section 3.03. CERMA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV 
Page  3
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) CERMA shall establish and maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in 
accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures for and in connection with the 
carrying out of the Project.
(b)
CERMA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) above for such year as 
so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements and a report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from 
time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
CERMA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date fifteen (15)  years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify CERMA of 
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
Page  4
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Center For Enterprise Restructuring 
   and Management Assistance:
42a Kazbegi Ave.
2nd Building, 5th Floor
380060 Tbilisi
Georgia
Facsimile:
995-32-307-703
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CERMA or by 
CERMA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by its Executive Director, or by such other person or persons as CERMA 
shall designate in writing, and CERMA shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
CENTER FOR ENTERPRISE RESTRUCTURING AND
  MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE
By /s/ Tedo Japaridze
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 
Implementation Program
1.
CERMA shall select enterprises to be included under Part A of the Project and 
enterprises, whose manager or managers are to be included in the training under Part B 
of the Project, in accordance with the following criteria:
Page  5
(a)
it is a duly established enterprise under the laws of the Borrower, in 
which more than fifty percent (50%) of the proprietary interests of the enterprise is 
held by individuals or companies not owned or controlled by the Borrower, the 
Borrower’s local authorities or any subdivision thereof;
(b)
enterprise not subject to price control, restriction on sales and is not 
dependent on Borrower-owned or controlled monopoly supplier; 
(c)
the management has demonstrated, through issuance of a letter of intent, 
its willingness to fully cooperate with outside consultants, including provision of 
access to information, and to pay at least five percent (5%) of the total cost of 
advisory services; and
(d)
improvements in profitability of enterprise can be achieved through 
organizational, accounting, financial and/or marketing measures without initial need 
for capital investments as demonstrated by a diagnostic study carried out under Part 
A.1 of the Project (not applicable in enterprises whose manager or managers are to be 
included in Part B of the Project).
2.
CERMA shall enter into a written contract with each Eligible Private Enterprise 
for the purposes of Part A of the Project and with each Eligible Private Enterprise 
whose manager and or managers were selected to participate in Part B of the Project 
which shall, to the extent possible, be based upon the model contract approved by the 
Association. Such agreements shall include: (i) the percentage of total cost of 
technical assistance to be provided under Part A of the Project for the benefit of the 
respective Eligible Private Enterprise, which shall be no less than five percent (5%) 
of such total cost; and/or (ii) the undertaking that all local cost incurred regarding 
the training of manager or managers of the respective Eligible Private Enterprise 
under Part B.1 and B.3 of the Project shall be borne by the respective Eligible 
Private Enterprise. 
3.
CERMA shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about January 1, 2001, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association and the Borrower, by February 1, 2001, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s 
views on the matter.
