CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1146 JM
Loan Agreement
(Kingston Sewerage and Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE WATER COMMISSION, KINGSTON, JAMAICA
DATED JULY 23, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1146 JM
Loan Agreement
(Kingston Sewerage and Water Supply Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE WATER COMMISSION, KINGSTON, JAMAICA
DATED JULY 23, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 23, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and THE WATER COMMISSION, KINGSTON, JAMAICA (hereinafter called the
Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditicns; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements
of the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "the Wate Commission, Kingston, Jamaica" or "Borrower" means The
Water Commission (Corporate Area) established by the Kingston and Saint Andrew
Water Commission Act;
(b)   "J$" or "Jamaican dollars" means the currency of the Guarantor; and
(c)   "Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement dated May 14,
1969 between the Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE H
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the


﻿4
Bank and the Borrower, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)  On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment dates specified
in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay,
on such date, interest and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on
or before the date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropri-te engineering, financial and public


﻿5
utility practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ engineering and management consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (c)
of this Section, enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine all
plant, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of the Borrower
and any relevant records and documents.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land, and rights in respect of land (including


﻿6
water rights) as shall be required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its affairs, plan the
development of its properties and facilities and maintain its financial position in
accordance with appropriate administrative, engineering, public utility and financial
practices tinder the supervision of experienced and competent management; and
shall cause its plant, equipment, properties and facilities to be maintained and all
necessary renewals and repairs thereto to be made, all in accordance with
appropriate administrative, engineering, public utility and financial practices.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of its operations.
(b)   The Borrower shall not sell or otherwise dispose of any of its property
or assets which shall be required for the efficient conduct of its operations.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each financial year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial


﻿7
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the
accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt except as otherwise
currently reported to the Bank or stated in writing.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower as security for
any debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably secure the. payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of
any such lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to the
Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not
apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any
lien arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take from time to time all necessary action (including, but not limited to,
cost savings and the adjustment and maintenance of rates and charges for its water
supply and sewerage services) to .provide revenues and savings sufficient to produce
an annual real rate of return on the average value of the Borrower s net fixed
assets in operation of at least 1% in the financial year 1976, 2% in the financial
years 1977 and 1978, 3% in the financial year 1979 and 4% in the financial year
1980 and thereafter.
(b)   For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section:
(i)         "financial year" in relation to any year referred to above means
the 12 months period ending March 31 of that year;
(ii)        the annual real rate of return on the average value of the
Borrower's net fixed assets in operation shall be calculated on
a basis to be determined by the Bank in agreement with the
Borrower.
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not incur any debt unless the consolidated net revenues of the Borrower


﻿8
for the financial year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the
greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum consolidated debt service
requirement for any succeeding financial year on all the debt of the Borrower
including the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term  "debt" means all debt, including debt assumed or
guaranteed by the Borrower, except debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms on demand
or less than one year after its incurrence;
(ii)        the term   "incur" with reference to any debt includes any
modification of the terms of payment of such debt. Debt shall
be deemed to be incurred (A) under a contract or loan
agreement, on the date such contract or loan agreement
providing for such debt is entered into and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee is entered into but only to the extent that the
underlying debt is outstanding;
(iii)       the term  "consolidated net revenues" means gross operating
revenues of the Borrower, adjusted to take account of tariffs
in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though they
were not in effect during the entire financial year or
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less all
operating expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes, if
any, and administrative expenses, but before provision for
depreciation and debt service requirements;
(iv)        the term  "consolidated debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking fund
payments, if any), interest and other charges on debt of the
Borrower; and
(v)         whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency of the
Guarantor debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by the Borrower, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of s-Irvicing such debt, or,
if such other currency is not obtainable, at the rate of exchange
that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.


﻿9
(b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not make
or commit itself during the period ending March 31, 1979 to any capital
expenditures, outside those provided in the Project, exceeding in any financial year
the aggregate sum of $500,000.
ARTICLE VI
Other Obligations of the Borrower
Section 6.0.1. The Borrower shall, within six months after the date of this
Agreement, or such other period as shall be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank, prepare a program   satisfactory to the Bank for the reorganization of
the Borrower's administrative, financial and technical departments including
improved office accomodation with due regard to lowering the Borrower's operating
costs and promptly thereafter, shall implement said program.
Section 6.02. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
date of this Agreement, or such other period as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, prepare a program satisfactory to the Bank for the training
of its technical, operating and administrative personnel and promptly thereafter,
shall implement said program.
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) not later than March 31, 1977, or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, reduce its accounts
receivable balance to a maximum of 2-1/2 months' billing, (ii) within six months
of the date of this Agreement, or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank, establish a system satisfactory to the Bank for discontinuing
service to customers whose accounts are in arrears and thereafter maintain said
system in operation, (iii) prepare and implement detailed procedures satisfactory
to the Bank for billing and collection of amounts due from customers and (iv)
take appropriate measures to eliminate unauthorized connections.
Section 6.03. The Borrower shall, not later than one year after the date
of this Agreement, or such other period as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank, complete the survey referred to in Part D(4) of the Project.
Section 6.04. The Borrower undertakes to carry out or cause to be carried
out the sewer connections, including all necessary internal plumbing and water
closets, of all properties falling within the areas included in Part C of the Project
and shall submit to the Bank for its approval within nine months of the date


﻿I
10
of this Agreement, or such other period as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank, a technical and financial assistance program to owners and occupiers
unable to meet the cost of such connections.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, a change shall have been made
in the Kingston and Saint Andrew Water Commission Act so as to materially and
adversely affect the operations or financial condition of the Borrower or the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, the event specified in Section
7.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VIII
Amendment of Prior Loan Agreement
Section 8.01. Sections 5.07 and 5.08 of the Prior Loan Agreement are hereby
amended by deleting said Sections and substituting therefor Sections 5.04 and 5.05
of this Agreement, respectively.
ARTICLE IX
Effective Date; Termination
Section 9.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Borrower shall have appointed a qualified full-time Project Manager
to supervise the execution of the Project and an adequate number of competent
and experienced support staff;
(b)   the Guarantor shall have made available to the Borrower the funds,
and provided to the Bank the plan, referred to in Sections 2.04 and 2.05 of the
Guarantee Agreement; and


﻿11
(c)   the assumption of duty of a full time qualified General Manager
designate of the Borrower who will six months thereafter assume full responsibilities
as General Manager.
Section 9.02. The date October 21, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE X
Addresses
Section 10.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
188Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
The Water Commission
Kingston
Jamaica
Cable address:
WATER COMMISSION
Kingston, Jamaica
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿12
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
THE WATER COMMISSION,
KINGSTON, JAMAICA
By /s/ David Bicknell
Authorized Representative


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  (a)   Pipes and                7,000,000     )
accessories,                           )
pumps and                              )
related equip-                         )
ment including                         )
equipment for                          )
wells                                  )    100% of foreign
)     expenditures
(b)  Pipes and                 1,000,000    )
plumbing                               )
accessories                            )
for house                              )
connections                            )
(2)  Civil Works                     1,800,000         15% (represent-
(including                                        ing the estimated
drilling of                                       foreign expendi-
w ells)                                           ture component)
(3)   Consultants'                   1,250,000          100% of foreign
services and                                      expenditures
technical
assistance
(4)  Interest and other             2,450,000          Amounts due
charges on the
Loan accrued on or
before October 14,
1978
(5)  Unallocated                     1,500,000
TOTAL        15,000,000


﻿14
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Guarantor.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be disbursed on account
of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any such taxes
included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2) and (3) on account
of expenditures incurred after December 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $300,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the Bank has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall proceeds of the Loan which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully
meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may
continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procurement of any
item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by
notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as in the Bank's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project forms part of the Borrower's program to expand and improve
the water supply system in the Kingston-St. Andrew area in Jamaica and to provide
adequate sewerage services for sections of the Kingston-St. Andrew area. It consists
of the following Parts:
Part A:    The development of additional sources of water in the Kingston-St.
Andrew area which will require the construction of (i) a well field
near the Tulloch Springs Pumping Station to produce an estimated
average yield of about six million gallons per day, including the
construction of a pipeline from the well field to the Tulloch Springs
Pumping Station; (ii) a well field in the Rio Magno Valley north of
the Tulloch Springs Pumping Station to produce an estimated average
yield of about six million gallons per day, including the construction
of a pipeline to convey water from the well field in the Rio Magno
Valley to the Rio Cobre River or any of its tributaries (iii) a number
of wells and related connections in the Liguanea Plains to produce
an estimated average yield of about four million gallons per day; and
(iv) intake works, pumping station and pipeline at Hall's Green to
produce about one million gallons per day.
Part B:    The treatment of water and the improvement of the distribution system
which will include: (i) the installation of a filtration plant near the
Tulloch Springs Pumping Station; (ii) a pumping station at Mona
Reservoir and a pumping main to the Hope Filter Plant for the transfer
of two million gallons per day; (iii) establishment of pressure zones;
(iv) leak detection and repair programs; (v) replacement of defective
mains; and (vi) installation of meters or measuring devices at all sources
of production.
Part C:    The provision of sewerage services within the Lower Western Sewer
District and the Upper Central Sewer District of Kingston-St. Andrew,
including plumbing installations, house connections, laterals, street
sewers, pumping stations and trunk mains, to convey sewage from the
Lower Western Sewer District and Upper Central Sewer District to
the Greenwich Treatment Plant.
Part D:    (1) A water resources desk study to (i) evaluate north and south Blue
Mountain schemes, the Wag Water scheme, the Linstead Basin scheme,


﻿16
and to recommend the next major water scheme; and (ii) prepare a
plan and recommendations for the integrated development and
allocation of the water resources (including sewage effluent) of the
Kingston metropolitan area;
(2) A study to determine the potential yield of the water resources
of the Linstead Basin;
(3) Studies for the stabilization of Hermitage Dam; and
(4) Water and sewer connection survey, including (i) an inventory of
the number and size of its sewer and water connections, and (ii) the
updating of its records of said connections.
Part E:     The strengthening of the organization, adiinistration and financial
practices of the Borrower by:
(1)   the provision of management advisory services; and
(2)   the carrying out of a staff training program in administration
and in the operation of the Borrower's plant and facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1979.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars) *
October 15, 1979                                     135,000
April 15, 1980                                       140,000
October 15, 1980                                     145,000
April 15, 1981                                       150,000
October 15, 1981                                     160,000
April 15, 1982                                       165,000
October 15, 1982                                     175,000
April 15, 1983                                       180,000
October 15, 1983                                     185,000
April 15, 1984                                       195,000
October 15, 1984                                     205,000
April 15, 1985                                       210,000
October 15, 1985                                     220,000
April 15, 1986                                       230,000
October 15, 1986                                     240,000
April 15, 1987                                       250,000
October 15, 1987                                     260,000
April 15, 1988                                       275,000
October 15, 1988                                     285,000
April 15, 1989                                       295,000
October 15, 1989                                     310,000
April 15, 1990                                       320,000
October 15, 1990                                     335,000
April 15, 1991                                       350,000
October 15, 1991                                     365,000
April 15, 1992                                       380,000
October 15, 1992                                     395,000
April 15, 1993                                       415,000
October 15, 1993                                     430,000
April 15, 1994                                       450,000
October 15, 1994                                     470,000
April 15, 1995                                       490,000
October 15, 1995                                     510,000
April 15, 1996                                       530,000
October 15, 1996                                     555,000
April 15, 1997                                       575,000
October 15, 1997                                     600,000
April 15, 1998                                       625,000
October 15, 1998                                     655,000
April 15, 1999                                       680,000
October 15, 1999                                     710,000
April 15, 2000                                       750,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿18
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three                                      1%
years before
maturity
More than three                                      2-1/4%
years but not more
than six years
before maturity
More than six years                                      4%
but not more than
eleven years before
maturity
More than eleven                                     5-1/2%
years but not more
than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years                              7-1/4%
but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity
More than twenty-three                               8-1/2%
years before maturity


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as stated in paragraph 2 of this Part, contracts for pipes and
accessories, pumps and equipment shall be let under procedures consistent with
those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised in October 1972
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    (i)         Contracts for civil works (other than for drilling and equipping
of wells) shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with the Borrower's usual
procurement procedures.
(ii)        Contracts for the drilling and equipping of wells included in Part
A of the Project may be awarded pursuant to the procedures
referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph or by direct
negotiation with qualified local contractors.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids. for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Jamaica may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:


﻿20
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Jamaica if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Jamaica equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Jamaica.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from Group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each Group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such Group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the Group
A bid is the lowest in such further comparison, it shall be selected for purposes
of award; if not, the bid from Group C which as a result of the comparison under
paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
I.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for the drilling and equipping of wells, all other
contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more,
and all contracts for pipes and accessories, pumps and equipment estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to


﻿21
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence before
it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the bidder
to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended award
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the Bank's
concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the Bank
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such
contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraphs, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.    In the case of contracts for drilling and equipping of wells which are to
be awarded by direct negotiation with contractors, all the provisions of Part C(1)
above shall apply except that description of advertising procedures need not be
furnished to the Bank.


