~----- - I 
Document oi
i   : ^   .        ^            The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7280-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
October 14, 1988
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
ITlis documeot has a rsicted dkbVodon and may be used by ripimb ooly in the pedomamo of
|their oilh dudies Its contcils my not otbese be dbkdosed wftwt Wodd Ban aud eon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -    Uganda Shillings (rSh)
USh 1.00            -    USS 0.00667 1/
SDR 1.00            -    USS 1.280   2/
US$ 1.00            -    SDR 0.780   2/
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
Juiy 1      -     June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DIC            Divestiture Implementation Coumittee
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
MOF            Ministry of Finance
MOIT           Ministry of Industry and Technology
NYTIL          Nyanza Textile Company
PEC            President's Economic Advisory Council
PIE            Public Industrial Enterprise
PIES           Public Industrial Enterprise Secretariat
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
UDC            Uganda Development Corporation
SARAP          Public Sector Administrative Reform and Planning Study
SCD            Statutory Corporations Division
1/   After the currency reform and exchange rate adjustments of July 1,
1988.
2/   As of August 31st, 1988.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUAIARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
I.  BACKGROUND . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '.
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . .*. . . . . . .
Overview of the Economy  .......... . . l....... 9.1
II.  SECTORAIL CONTEXT . . . . . . . . ... .2
Strategy for Public Enterprise Reform  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Institutional Strengthening  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Administrative and Policy Reforms and Planning . . . . . . . . . . 4
Public Industrial Enterprises                    ..       . .5
Management Audits and Management and Technology Contracts  . . . . 6
Implementing the Divestiture Program  .   .  .  .  ..  . . . . . . 6
Industrial Sector Institutional Framework   .  .  .  ..     .   . . . 7
Public Industrial Enterprise Secretariat . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Uganda Development Corporation . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Key Parastatals  . . . . . . . . . . . . ... 8
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Sector Administrative Reform and Planning Study  . . . . . . . . . . 9
Statutory Corporations Division. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10
Public Industrial Sector Enterprise Secretariat  . . . . . . . . . .10
Uganda Development Corporation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .12
Management Audits, Management and Technology Contracts for PIEs. . .14
Divestiture Support Services . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .15
*                 Diagnostic Studies and Improvement Plans  . . . . ...    . .16
Project Mar2gement Support . .  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . 17
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .17
Assumed Annual Inflation Rates . . . . .      .       .  .  . . . 17
Estimated Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .....18
Financing Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...         . .  . . . . 18
Procurement    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .19
Disbursements  .      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .....20
Accounts and Audit                                             ..21
NOTE: This report is based on the findings of the appraisal mission of May
1988, comprising Mr. Ken Newcombe, Mission Leader, Mrs. Anne Vaughn, Country
Officer, and Mr. Ian Knapp, Public Sector Management Specialist.
This document has a restricted distribution and .nay be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
V.   PROJ3CT IPLEMHNTATION  .  .  . .     .   . . .     .  .  .    .    . .   . .20
Project Managment and Policy Review Arrangements      .  .  . . . . 20
Project Monitoring and Evaluation.  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .   . 22
Roles and Responsibilities for Project Implementation  . . . . . . .22
VI.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . ........ .      24
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .24
Dated Covenants   .    .  .  .  .                 . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .25
Recommendation . . . . . . . .               . . . . . . . . . . .26
ANNEXES
I     Ministry of Industry and Technology plus UDC Owned and/or Mana%ed
Companies
II    Management Audits and Rehabilitation Measures for Manufacturing
Industr6es
III   Categorization by Government of Uganda of Public Enterprises to be
Divested, Retained or Liquidated
IV    Divestiture Design Study Terms of Reference
V      Diagnostic Studies of Key Public Enterprises
VI     Diagrammatic Representation of Project-Related Decision Making and of
IDA Assistance
VII    Indicative Timetables for Implementation of Divestiture and
Liquidation Program, PIES and UDC Components, and SCD Components
VIII   Teos of Reference for Public Sector Administrative Reform and
Planning Study (SARAP)
IX    Terms of Reference for Statutory Corporations Division, Ministry of
Finance
X      Summary of Costs
XI     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
XII    Staffing Plans for PIES and SCD
XIII   Divestiture Implementation Committee Terms of Reference
MAPs    IBRD 18540R



- iii -
UGANDA
PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISES PROJECT
Credit and Summary
Borrowers             The Republic of Uganda
Implernting Agency: Ministry of Finance
Credit Amount:        SDR  11.70 million (US$15 million)
Terms:                Standard IDA terms
Proiect
Loiscriptions   The project would strengthen the Government's capacity to
undertake a program of parastatal reform. Project components
will ;,nable the Government to: i) pursue a defined program
of divestiture and liquidation of industrial public
enterprises; ii) generate a short term supply response from
the manufacturing sector through well targeted management and
technology service assistance to retained industrial
parastatals; iii) prepare a comprehensive program for
rationalization for the rest of the parastatals; v) defineva
longer-term policy, legislative and administrative framework
for the sound management of the public enterprise sector, and
to assist the Government to define its role vis-a-vis the
private sector; vi) provide assistance Co the Statutory
Corporations Division (SCD), Ministry of Finance, to enable
it to monitor parastatal financial performance and budgetary
implications and to coordinate the implementation of the
proposed project.
Proiect Benefits
and Risks
The project would contribute to sustained economic recovery
by improving efficiency and productivity in the
administration of the public enterprise sector and management
of key parastatal enterprises; by increasing local resource
mobilization through increasing capacity utilization and
debt service capability of industrial enterprises and by
improving pricing, billing and collection for public service
enterprises; and by increasing private sector participation
in manufacturing enterprises. The major risks are unexpected
irternal differences regarding the extent of divestiture and
the ultimate level of Government participation in commer-
cially-oriented activities. However Government's attempts to
engage all major interest groups in decision-making
regarding public enterprise sector restructuring and
divestiture augurs well for the implementation if an eventual
consensus position acceptable to IDA.



- iv -
Economic Rate
of Returns            Not applicable.
Estimated Costs
Local     Foreign   Total
---- (thousand US$) -----
Ministry of Industry
Public Industrial Ent.Secretariat       742      2,907      3,649
Uganda Development Corporation          501      2,140      2,641
Sub-Total         :           1,243      5,047     6,290
Ministry of Finance
Statutory Corporations Division         268      2,122      2,390
Sector Administrative Reform Study      108        500        608
Diagnostic Studies                      489      3,007      3,496
Project Management Assistance           175         188       363
Sub-Total                      1040      5,817      6,857
Enterprise Rehab. and Divestiture
Management Audits and Contracts        2,327      2,640     4,967
Divestiture Services                       0     1,000.    1,000
Sub-Total                      2,327     3,640      5,967
Total Project Costs (Excl.Dut/Taxes)    4,610    14,504    19,114
Duties and Taxes                           234          0       234
Total (including Duties & Taxes)         4,844    14,504    19,348
Financins Plan                LIocal     Foreign   Total
(millions US$) -----
IDA                       0.5       14.5     15.0
Government                4.3       ----      4.3
Total                     4.8       14.5     19.3
Estimated Disbursements:  IDA Fiscal Year
1989      1990      1991       1992      1993       1994      1995
…_______________--- (millions US$) -------------…---------------
Annual     0.3       1.95      2.10      3.00       2.85      2.40       2.40
Cumulative 0.3      2.25       4.35      7.35      10.20     12.60      15.00



UGANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.        The  prospects  for  sustained  economic  recovery  in  Uganda are
greatly influenced by the capacity of key public enterprises to manage the
critical functions related to banking and financial regulation, marketing
of export cash crops, provision of essential public  services. (power, water
supply,    telecoumunications)    and,   while   significant   manufacturing
enterprises remain in Government hands, to increase industrial production.
The project originated from a Gover-tment request for assistance to support
its efforts to rationalize its participation in the industrial sector
through  a   reduction  in   direct  ownership  and  control  of  industrial
enterprises. Hence, in November 1986, a World Bank mission visited Uganda
to review with the Government its efforts to rationalize its industrial
sector enterprise (PIE) portfolio and to define assistance required to
support  Government  in  this  initiative.    PIE  technical  assistance was
prepared by Government in parallel with broader programs of assistance for
improving public sector management under the umbrella of the Second and
Third Technical Assistance project, with inputs from three preparation
missions in February, Hay/June and October/November 198/. Subsequently, i-;
February 1988, it was agreed with Government that the scope and importance
of public enterprise sector reform in Uganda warranted its treatment under
a separate Public Enterprises project. Thus, during appraisal in May 1988,
the scope of the project was expanded to permit the Government to addrEss
the wider issues of public sector enterprise management, and to define and
commence a rationalization program addressing the entire public enterprise
sector in addition to implementation of the already agreed rationalization
of PIE  holdings.   The major  policy actions  to be taken by the Government
were agreed in the context of the Policy Framework Paper of the Economic
Recovery Credit.   A Project Preparation Facility (PPF), established for the
Third Technical Aseistance Project, was available for preparatory studies
related to public sector enterprise reform.
Overview of the Econom
2.         At independence in 1962, Uganda had one of the strongest and most
promising economies in Sub-Saharan  Africa,    With  favorable  climatic and
soil conditions, the agricultural sector was able to provide ample food for
the population  as well  as  generate  foreign  exchange.    The industrial
sector, although small, supplied the economy with basic inputs and consumer
goods and contributed foreign exchange through exports of textiles and
copper.   Despite the  disadvantage of  being a  land-locked country, Uganda
shared access to an effective network of railway, port and airline
facilities through common services with Kenya and Tanzania. Its abundant
potential for hydropower development was already being realized.



-2-
3.          The  initial years  after independence  clearly demonstrated the
economic potential of the country. Real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew
by 5.8 percent from 1963 to 1970; the country maintained a reasonable
savings rate  permitting the  .iplementation of an investment program withcut
undue pressure on domestic prices or the balance of payments, and export
earnings were more than adequate to cover import requirements. However,
starting in 1970, a decade of political turmoil and gross economic mis-
management radically changed the situation. Real GDP declined by about 20
percent during 1972-78 and the era of extensive economic and political
destruction culminated in the 1979 war.
4.          In  the 1981-84  p*riod following  t1e overthrow of the military
regime, the Uganda Governmeet made positive progress towards economic
recovery.    From  mid-1984,  however,  there  was a marked deterioration in
economic performavne  and  a worsening  of  the  political  situation.   In
JanuZry 1986, the National Resistance Army, after a brief bLt intense war,
took control of the country, but persistent political destabilization
coupled with  -he  pursuit  of inappropriate economic policies continued to
inhibit the revival of the economy. In Ma) 1987, the authorities began to
implement a comprehensive program of rehabilitation and adjustment with the
support of an IMf Special African Facility and an action program to
revitalize the recovery process supported by an IDA Economic Recovery
Credi.  Subsequently, the Government initiated a series  of policy measures
iacluding appropriate exchange rate and pricing policies to restore price
stability and limit budget  deficits.   For a variety of  reasons, however,
inflationarv pressures were more severe than anticipated, the balance of
payments failed to improve to the extent originally envisaged, and Uganda
fell  short   of  achieving  the  broad  range  of  economic  and  financial
objectives that had been set out under the Economic Recovery Program.
However, recognizing the need to quickly restore economic stability, in May
1988, the Government prepared in collaboration with the Fund and the Bank a
second policy framework paper for 1988/89 - 1991/92 identifying additional
measures to reduce financial imbalances and itflationary pressures, as well
as supply-side measures designed to increase output. As part of its
Economic recovery program, during 1987, the Government began to design a
program  of  dWvestiture,  retention  and  rehabilitation  for  its  public
enterprises, and to address the issue of appropriate short and long-term
institutional arrangements to improve financial and technical management of
retained manufacturing parastatals, and to encourage their privatization.
The  assistance  Government  has  requested  under the project should permit
Government to substantially implement  this program  and deepen  its efforts
to streamline and improve the efficiency of the public enterprise sector.
II. SECTORAL CONTEXT
5.          Along  with the  public sector, parastat&l enterprises have been
greatly weakened by years of uolitical instability and economic decline.
The Government inherited 129 parastatal enterprises when it came to power
in 1986, a large number of which had suffered from loss of equipment, the
destruction  of   buildings  and  records,  and  had  become  a  significant
financial burden on Government. Net financial transfers to parastatalg in



-3-
the period  1982-86 were  36 billion  shillings (about US$25 million) and by
1986, the  Uganda  Commercial  Bank  had  lent  US$73.8  million  in foreign
exchange to  public enterprises, comprising 92Z of all Government guaranteed
lerding to that date. Furthermore, highly skilled technical and managerial
staff had, by and large, left the sector, and the morale and motivation of
those remaining is low. The legacy of this human resource drain is a
shortage of experienced and skilled management which Is widely believed to
be the single most important constrairt to sustained recovery of industrial
production.    By  1987  the  public enterprise seo-.ir employed about 45,OO(
people, of which 25,000 were in public industrial enterprises, compared
with a total of about 54,000 in the modern industrial sector as a whole.
Although the data base is poor, estimates suggest that the total fixed
assets of the Government's manufacturing enterpcises holding company, the
Uganda Development Company (UDC), are about US$300 million (1986 dollars),
with industrial parastatals held independently of the UDC having at least
these assets again. Unfortunately, at present, due to lack of foreign
exchange for spare parts and other inputs, as well as limited management
and technical skills, public enterprises havy great difficulty productively
employing their assets and delivering goods and services in a timely and
efficieuit manner. Effective and efficient public enterprises are, however,
crucial to the recovery effort due to their dominance in agricultural
produce  marketing,  which  covers  more  than   95Z  of   exports,  and  in
manufacturing, utilities, transport, and financial services. Industrial
parastatals  represent  more  than  half  the   value-added  in   the  total
industrial sector which in turn contributed about 5.5Z of monetary GDP in
1987.
6.         The  institutional  decline  that  has  characterized  the public
service generally has had a concomitant effect on the Government's manage-
ment of parastatal enterprises. Hence, the restoration of the Government's
administrative and management capacity, which will entail a sustained long-
term effort, is just as vital to performance of ul6amately retained
parastatals as to the civil service itself, and the rate of rehabilitation
of the civil s-vice and parastatals is a critical determinant  for the rate
of economic recovery. Therefore, the Bank Group's strategy for strengthen-
ing and revitalizing the public sector  is two-pronged:   (i)  to strengthen
the capacity of the Government to rationalize its parastatal sector through
a program of retention and rehabilitation, divestiture and liquidation,
starting first with the  PIE's, and (ii) to restore the essential functions
and processes of Government, starting first with the Ministries of Finance
and Planning  and Economic  Development.  At the same time, these interven-
tions will establish the foundation for longer term development and
increased efficiency of Government institutions through civil service
reform, a comprehensive program of public enterprise sect3r reform and
restructuring, and individual enterprise rehabilitation.
A Strategy for Public EnterPrise Reform
7.         -.he  recent macroeconomic  policies announced by the Government,
particularly  the   establishment  of   a  realistic   exchange  rate,  will
substantially improve the policy environment for the parastatal sector.
However, although a stable macroeconomic framework is necessary, it is not



-4-
a sufficient condition for successful rehabilitation and reform of the
sector. Iv addition a strategy is necessary to systematically addraas key
deficiencies   in   the   policy   and  operational  enviro-ment  of  public
enterprises as part of an ongoing action program for improved sector
administration  and  enterprise  performance.    The  Government  thus needs
assistance to design and commence implementation of elements of such a
strutogy, includings (i) a coherent policy framework for rationalization of
the public enterprise sector; (ii) strengthened information flows on finan-
cial performance and operations of existing parastatals; (iii) divestiture
and liquidation of industrial parastatals; (iv) rehabilitating important
manufacturing enterprises to be retained in the public sector while
maintaining a dialogue on the desirability of further divestiture; (v)
restoration of  the viability and financial autonomy of the largest and most
important non-industrial parastatals, and (vi) consistent with an agreed
policy framework, an achievable long term program of sector restructuring,
administrative reform and enterprise rehabilitation, covering sequentially
all enterprises whether or not they remain parastatals. Components of the
proposed project are designed to support. this strategy, the rationale for
which is developed below.
8.          Institutional Strengthening.  To enable this program to proceed,
it will be necessary to strengthen both the Ministry of Finance's Statutory
Corporations  Division   (SCD)  which   will  monitor  parastatal  financial
performance and oversee the public enterprise refotm and rationalization
program, as well as the Ministry of Industry and Technology, enabling it to
implement an agreed program  of divestiture,  liquidation and rehabilitation
of industrial parastatals. The SCD was established to moniter the financial
performance of all public enterprises and to evaluate and record the
budgetary implications of subsidies, Government guarantees, dividends and
other financial obligations. These functions have never been adequately
fulfilled.   The SCD is comprised now of one professional staff member, with
minimal records and no routine effective reporting system in place. The
Ministry of Industry and Technology has been strengthened already under the
Second IDA Technical Assistance Project through the provision of technical
assistance for planning (already in Dlace) and through financing for the
first year of a Public Industrial Enterprise Secretariat (PIES) for which
ongoing support is envisaged under the project (see paras. 14, 15, 22 and
23).
9.        Administrative and  Policy  Reforms  and  Planning.    The present
Government has neither a well defined and widely endorsed policy framework
for rationalizing its participation in the economy through parastatal
enterprises, nor an internally consistent procedural and institutional
framework for  administering  the  public  enterprise  sector.    The policy
implicit in the Government's present proposals for restructuring its public
enterprise portfolio is to divest and liquidate enterprises which are
dormant or moribund, or which are unprofitable, and to retain those which
are or might conceivably become profitable, regardless of whether or not
they could be readily financed and/or managed by the private sector. In
the face of severe and persistent financial constraints, it is prudent for
Government to consider all options to mobilize domestic and foreign
capital, management and technical resouwces to facilitate economic growth



- 5 -
and to give priority for the use of limited Government resources to rebuil-
ding those areas of the economy where there is no alternative to direct
Government support, such as infrastructure and essential public services.
Therefore, Government intends to prepare a policy framework for its longer-
term participation in the economy through parastatalst define a comprehen-
sive action program of public sector enterprise review and reform; and to
recommend institutional arrangements and procedures for monitoring and
evaluating ultimately retained parastatal enterprises. The Government also
wishes to strengthen immediately the capabilities of the SCD to improve
financial reporting and controls for the parastatal sector, including sub-
mission by parastatals to the Ministry of Finance oft a) audited financial
statements within six months of the year end;   b)  a comprehensive  list of
loans guaranteed by the Ministry (on a cumulative basis); and c) three year
rolling plans and budgets relating output and performance to resources
utilized.    The  SCO  also  needs  to  improve  its evaluation of submitted
reports,  monitoring  of  overall   parastatal  financial   performance  for
budgetary purposes, (including subsidies, equity and debt financing, and
dividends) and to make adequate provisions through Treasury for finances
required through the budget in support of parastatals.
10.       Public Industrial  Enterprises.   Acknowledging the  key role that
industrial enterprises could play in the economic recovery process, even by
raising capacity utilization in economically viable enterprises from, say,
202 on average to 402 on average, Government must give high priority to key
manufacturing  parastatals   to  identify  those  most  able  to  contribute
efficiently to a supply response in the short term and those which, to
minimize financial losses and misallocation of human resources, should be
liquidated as soon as possible. The Ministry of Industry and Technology
presently supervises 56 FIE's, 21 directly and 35 under the Uganda Develop-
ment Corporation (UDC). An up-to-date assessment of the status of each u:
the 56  companies in  terms of  products, share-holding, whether operated by
Government or private sector equity partners, prospects for sale and present
categorization by Government for retention or divesciture is presented in
Annex I. Of the 21 Ministry of Indu.try and Technology companies, eight are
now being run by their private sector equity partners, four of whom have
majority share-holding, ten are recorded as being the subject of registered
or potential ownership claims by previous owners and two appear to be
dormant or paper companies. Of the 35 UDC companies, four are now effective-
ly outside UDC's jurisdiction, being in transition to former owners, nine
are being wound up or never went into production, and two are dormant.
Amongst the rtmaining 20 companies three are reported to be the subject of
ownership disp tes. It is apparent from project preparation that very few of
the companies   n the  MOI  and  UDC portfolio for which ownership is now or
may potentially be disputed will revert quickly to private control during
the project period. Resolution of ownership issues is a drawn out process
under Ugandan law, and the legitimacy of claims made on these companies has
still to be verified before the long process of valuation and negotiation
with the claimants can proceed.
11.       Performance in most of the going  concerns under  MOIT and  UDC is
poor with production and sales in many cases resulting in lees than break.



even returns based on direct operating costs alons, although data are
limited on the overall financial implications of continued operation of
apparently non-viable or poorly managed industrial enterprises. Despite the
fact that direct budget subsidies for industrial enterprises no longer
appear significant (as compared to the 1982-1986 period), indirect support
through Government endorsed lending by comiercial banks may remain impor-
tant. Most recent records indicate that in the fiw years prior to 1986, the
Uganda Commercial Bank lent US$74 million in foreign exchange resources to
parastatal enterprises and  this  financing  channel  is  still  utilized by
parastatals. In addition, an early production response to provided inputs
and investment resources is likely to be frustrated by a lack of well-
qualified, motivated managers and poor working conditions and ircentives
for workers. Moreover, financial controls are weak and poor institutional
arrangements have facilitated direct political interference in the business
administration  of  the  enterprises.    These  fnctors  have   resulted  in
unproductive enterprises which are more likely to be an economic burden
than to contribute to economic growth. Finally, in their present weakened
condition, potentially viable enterprises are unable to attract private
sector investors or to secure financing from either local financial
institutions or the donor community.
12.         Management Audits  and Management  and Technology Contracts.  In
order  to  address  these  problems,  the  Government  has   recognized  the
necessity of first divesting those public industrial enterprises in which
it has no over-riding strategic interest, and liquidating those which are_
not viable.   Only  then will it be in a position to concentrate its limited
financial and managerial resources on the rehabilitation of enterprises
with sound  commercial prospects  which will  remain in its portfolio in the
short term pending divestiture  decisions.   Recognizin; that  qualified and
experienced management and h,gh level technical skills represent a key
constraint  to  rehabilitation  of   public   industrial   enterprises,  the
Government  needs  to  carry  out  management  audits  of  key  commercially
promising and  economically viable  manufacturing enterprises.   This 'should
lead to the provision of management technology contracts, or specialized
advieory services, for the most critical enterprises, depending on the
extent of assistance needed in each case. This further assistance should be
provided within the  C        or overall performance contracts.
13.       Implementing the Divestiture Program. The Government's  first step
towards divesture  and liquidation  of public  enterprises was to categorize
them in terms of those to be rctained with 100I Government ownership, those
in which the Government will retair majority share-holding but run as joint
ventures, and those in which it wishes to sell its interest to the private
sector or liquidate. Annex III contains the Government's portfolio strategy
as presented to ID in partial fulfillment of the monitorable actions to be
taken under the First Economic Recovery Credit. The Government is intending
to reduce its holdings in 34 companies in which it has as much as 100?
ownership to no more, than 512 in the first instance, and to completely
divest or liquidate a further 22 public enterprises. Of these 56 companies,
24 are held by the UDC and are included in the UDC's portfolio strategy
which is consistent with the Government's categorization of its companies
for divestiture, rehabilitation and liquidation. The Government recognizes



-7-
that implementation of its divestiture program is a complex and time-
consuming undertaking and that the capital market in which shares in
Government undertakings would be sold to the public is poorly developed.
Hence, this project will assist Government in implementing its divestiture
program.
14.       Industrial  Sector  Institutional  Framework.    The  Ministry  of
Industry and Technology has committed itself to two major undertakings
aimed at strengthening the institutional framework for the restructuring
and management  uf  the  public  industrial  enterprise  sector;    a)  the
establishment of a Public Industrial Enterprise Secretariat (PIES) in the
Ministry as a tep-level administrative and advisory body which will assist
in designing the restructuring, rehabilitation and divestiture program for
industrial  parastatals  and;  b)    restructuring  the  Uganda  Development
Corporation to gradually eliminate its holding company role by divesting
mature enterprises and reducing government ownership in retained companies
and   liquidating   moribund   enterprises.   The   Government's   portfolio
restructuring strategy (see Annex ITI) includes most of the industrial
enterprises directly supervised by the Ministry and under the UDC.   The UDC
presented  to   IDA  for  review  in  September,  1988,  its  own  portfolio
restructuring and rationalization program which is consistent with the
Government's categorization of enterprises to be retained, divested and li-
quidated.
15.         Public  Industrial  Enterprise  Secretariat.    The  Ministry qf
Industry   and   Technology   currently   has  neither  the  staff  nor  the
organizational capacity to properly  assess the  industrial sector  in terms
of identifying enterprises that have the potential economic and financial
impact that is sought.   Moreover,  implementation of  a rationalization and
rehabilitation program requires a further range of diverse skills and
expertise that are also currently absent.
16.       Hence, the  role of  the Public  Industrial Enterprise Secretariat
(PIES) is to help design and implement industrial enterprise restructuring
and divestiture programs, to strengthen the ability of public industrial
enterprises to  handle increasing levels of autonomy and accountability, and
to reduce excessive ministerial involvement in their activities. Consistent
with this role, PIES will help identify the most commercially promising cf
the economically viable industrial enterprises to be subjected to management
audits  and   subsequently,  management/technology  contracts  and  advisory
services. PIES will also identify the immediate inputs and related credit
requirements for enterprises selected to receive management and technology
contracts. The performance contracts that oblige this assistance will also
include, inter alia, priority allocation of limited foreign exchange and
local credit to maximize the short-term production response. PIES will be
responsible for screening and ranking for support under the project all
enterprises directly supervised by the Ministry of Industry and Technology,
and by the UDC. PIES will report directly to the Permanent Secretary for
Industry and Technology.
17.          Uganda  Development  Corporation.    The  Government's  role in
promoting industrial sector development is at present vested with the



Uganda Development Corporation (UDC) under the umbrella of the Ministry of
Industry and  Technology.   Divesting part  or all  of UDC  equity in viable
companies and liquidating moribund companies has become a priority in the
Government's program of parastatal reform. Hence, UDC's role in the short
term will  entail,  inter   alias       a)  the   liquidation  of  non-viable
enterprises;   b) return of  expropriated properties  to their former owners
as  claims  are  processed  and  approved;    c)  promoting  private  sector
investment  in  the  retained  enterprises  leading  to  full divestiture as
commercial viability is rertored; and    d)  assisting  selected enterprises
with management audits and subsequently with technology and management
contracts and advisory services. During the next two to three years the 11
dormant or moribund companies will be liquidated, merged or completely
divested, approximately 16 are slated to be divested to the minimum
majority share-holding position, as the first stage towards eventual
complete divestiture, and three viable or potentially viable enterprises
are to be completely divested. For the remainder of the UDC portfolio not
covered by the above program and for those remaining with majority UDC
share-holding, the ultimate goal should be complete divestitures, as soon
as feasiBle, with the most notable constraint being the rate at which the
local private sector can obtain the required resources and is prepared to
mobilize to affect the transition. During this period, UDC's task will be
to prevent further deterioration in the physical condition of commercially
and  economically  sound  enterprises   and,  wherever   feasible,  improve
management performance and productivity to render the enterprises concerned
more attractive to private  ector investors.   The  Government has requested
technical assistance to enable UDC to undertake this portfolio rationaliza-
tion program. However, the justification and role of the UDC beyond the
short  term  needs  to  be  explicitly  reviewed.    The Government needs to
determine how best to promote industrial development in Uganda, including
requirements and institutional vehicles for equity and venture capital
financing of new enterprises. The SARAP Study will assist in determining
how best this can be accomplished (para. 20).
18.       Key Parastatals.  Industrial enterprises comprise only one half of
public sector enterprises and the performance of many non-industrial
parastatals has a strong bearing on the Government's capacity to implement
and sustain a program of economic recovery.   Major parastatals  include key
public  service   agencies  such  as  the  electricity,  water  and  sewage,
telecommunications, and numerous transport parastatals including railways,
road transpo.t and the national airline. Many of these organizations suffer
from a combination of financial, operational and managerial difficulties
that reault in unreliable and/or inefficient delivery of basic services.
Improved performance in these key organizations, in the widest sense, is
needed to remove current impediments to commerce, industry, Government and
the general population, thus in  turn    facilitating  their  efficiency and
contribution to resumed economic growth and overall recovery. In addition,
parastatal agencies such as the Bank of Uganda and the Coffee Marketing
Board play key roles in managing resource flows essential for economic
growth and sound economic management. Hence, the Government proposes, as a
first step, to subject to detailed diagnostic study and improvement planning
at  least  six  key   parastatals  selected   because  of   their  strategic
significance to economic growth, or because of unsustainable financial



-9-
losses and administrative inefficiency. Certain other large parastatals will
also be subjected to diagnostic studies as part of proposed sector
operations eg. the proposed Telecommunucations Rehabilitation and Uganda
Railways projects.      The diagnostic studies should lead to the adoption of
action plans for improvement of efficiency and, where applicable, financial
autonomy of each parastatal, and to full or partial divestiture where a
broadening or a complete change in ownership is a relevant consideration.
Furthermore, recommended programs for rehabilitation for some or all of
these parastatals should form the basis of an effort by Government,
potentially supported by IDA and other donors, to concentrate available
resources on selected parastatals as a strategy to maximize the productivity
and economic *.fficiency of the public enterprise sector in the short to
medium term.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
19.       The broad objective of  the project  is to  strengthen the Govern-
ment's capacity to sustain economic recovery by increasing productivity and
output and reducing financial losses in the public enterprise sector.
Specific objectives are to:
ti)   define and  implement reforms in the sector policy and legislative
framework and strengthen sector   administration   and  enterprise
management;
(ii)  prepare  and  initiate  an  overall  program of rehabilitation and
rationalization for all public sector enterprises, integrating
ongoing programs and;
(iii)  implement a  program of rehabilitation, restructuring, divestiture
and liquidation of selected industrial parastatal enterprises;
An indicative work program and timetable for the major activities listed
below is provided in Annex VII.
Sector Administrative Reform and Planning bzudy (SARAP) (US$0.5 million)
20.       Provision is  made to  finance a comprehensive study of the entire
public enterprise sector with the following  objectives; i)   Sector Policy:
prepare for discussion a policy paper and guidelines for the future
participation   of   Government   in    commercially-oriented   enterprises;
li) Institutional Arrangements:  define institutional arrangements, policies
and procedures for efficient Government administration of the public
enterprise sector; and iii) Action Program: prepare an action program for
rehabilitation   and   performance   improvement   and,   where   desirable,
divestiture or liquidation, for remaining public enterprises, taking into
account already committed plans and actions concerning industrial and other
parastatals  and  ongoing  diagnostic  studies.    The study will review and
advise upon, inter alia, the need for reforms to existing legislature, wage
and salary policies and institutional arrangements for the administration
of parastatal enterprises, including the future role of SCD, PIES and UDC.
Terms of reference (see Annex VIII) were reviewed with the Government



- 10 -
during appraisal and agreed at negotiations, and a dated covenant was also
agreed at negotiations thet the studies are to be completed by November 1,
1989, and recommendations agreed with IDA by March 31, 1990.
Statutory Corporations Division (SCD) (US$2.1 million)
21.       Assistance will  be  provided   to  the   Statutory  Corporations
Division (SCD) in the Ministry of Finance, to strengthen its capacity to
fulfill, during  the project  period, the  following roles:  ti) focal point
and project management for  the Public Enterprises Project; (ii) design and
implementation of uniform accounting and reporting standards for  the public
enterprise sector,  including assistance  to key parastatals to render their
accounts current to facilitate diagnostic study; (iii) design and implemen-
tation of financial and performance monitoring and controls for all public
enterprises consistent with revised accounting standards. Consistent with
its role as a focal point for the project, the SCD will manage the SARAP
and diagnostic studies, and the Divestiture Design Study (para. 28, Annex
IV), and will ensure adequate review of consultant recommendations in
accordance  with  agreed  policy   review  arrangements,   and will  assist
respective  Ministers   in  preparing  and  presenting  to  the  President's
Economic Council (PEC) and the Cabinet submissions for policy and other
reforms.   The SCD will seek the cooperation and assistance of the PIES and
UDC in fulfilling its .inancial reporting and accounting responsibilities,
and in reviewing and reporting to IDA on a quarterly basis, progress in
project  implementation,  although  it will  not  assume  any  authority.to
intervene in any operational context in the affairs of the UDC and PIES.
The SARAP study will review the long term role of the SCD  and institutional
arrangements for  the above-mentioned  financial oversight function. Further
delineation of the respective  roles and  responsibilities of  the SCD, PIES
and UDC is provided in paragraphs 32, 23 and 25 respectively, and in Part V
which covers project implementation.  Terms of reference and a scope of work
for SCD were reviewed with the  Government during  appraisal and agreed at
negotiations (see Annex IX). It was  agreed  at  negotiations  that  the SCD
would prepare for review and agreement with IDA an annual work program
designed to undertake its terms of reference. It is vital to the success of
the project that the SCD be staffed with suitably qualified, experienced and
motivated Ugandan staff, including a Ugandan Director. Provision has been
made under the project for modest incentive payments to attract and retain a
limited number of suitably qualified local staff. Agreement was reached at
negotiations on a staffing plan for the SCD (see Annex XII). and that the
agreed staff positions be filled by May 31, 1989, with candidates accep-
table  to  IA.    Provision  is made  under the Credit for a Public Sector
Management Specialist (36 m/m) and a Financial Analyst/Accountant (36 m/m),
consultant services for accounting standards design and for staff training,
office equipment and vehicles.
Public Industrial Sector Enterprise Secretariat (PIES) (US$2.9 million)
22.       Technical assistance has been  requested  for  a  period  of three
years in order to strengthen the Public Industrial Enterprise Secretariat
(PIES) and to initiate its  work  program.    Specifically,  the Secretariat
would be assisted by three full-time specialists: a senior technical



- 11 -
advisor,  an  industrial  engineer  and  a  financial  analysc.   Short-term
consultants, both local and international. will be made available to
provide additional support for implementation of the divestiture program
regarding legal and financial issues, and assistance with management
training,  accounting   and management   systems,  production  engineering.
technical advisory  services, and market studies.   Provision  is also made
for short term fellowships and study tours, office equipment, computer
hardware and software, and vehicles. The terms of reference for PIES,
presented below, were reviewed with  the  Government  during  appraisal and
agreed during  negotiations; a dated covenant on the appointment of suitable
staff by Hay 31. 1989 was also negotiated and a staffing plan agreed (see
Annex XII).
23.       The terms of reference of the PIES include, inter alia, to:
a)   prepare  and   help  implement   a  sub-sector  wide  program  for
rehabilitation of industrial parastatals and assist with the
implementation of divestiture and liquidation arrangeme&.-_ for
enterprises reporting directly to the Ministry of Industry and
Technology and UDC.   Specifically with respect to rehabilitation
planning, using agreed economic, financial and strategic criteria,
rank industrial enterprises in order of priority to receive
assistance in the form of management and technical services and
other  support,   and  propose  the  ten  enterprises  to  receive
management audits;                                               v
b)  based on the results of management  audits,  and  in consultation
with UDC for its own portfolio companies, prepare a program of
management and technology contracts and other specialized adviscry
services   to   assist   the   most   commercially  promising  and
economically sound public industrial enterprises.   These services
are to be performed vithin the context of a performance contract.
c)   supervise and  monitor the  consultant services and manage the use
of funds made available to selected enterprises for rehabilitation
and management/technology contracts, and for short term advisory
services; and
d)   make recommendations  concerning  appointments  to  and dismissals
from  the   Boards  of   Directors  of  public  sector  industrial
enterprises directly supervised by the Ministry of Industry and
Technology;
e)   advise  on   decentralization  of  decision-making  and  increased
autonomy, accountability and quality of management and boards of
directors of individual enterprises;
f)   strengthen enterprise  financial discipline  and accountability by
introducing corporate planning and management systems for perfor-
mance monitoring and evaluation;



- 12 -
g)   facilitate the  introduction of agreed institutional arrangements,
administrative procedures and accounting and reporting systems for
improved administration of industrial sector parastatals, taking
advice from the SCP on the accounting and reporting standards to
be applied, and ensure that accounts are brought up-to-date in
companies selected for special rehabilitation assistance and
thereafter in the all industrial enterprises to be retained;
h)     evaluate  proposals  concerning  any  special  social services the
Government may request the public industrial enterprises to
perform ind advise the government of the terms on which these
services could be provided.
i)   to carry  out other  advisory services  which may  be requested by
Government.
PIES will develop an annual work program for review with IDA which, inter
alia, will include details of co-operation between PIES and UDC in
fulfillment of their mutual roles and responsibilities. Agreement on the
preparation, submission and approval for annual work programs was reached
at negotiations.   Financing  cf the  first year of PIES operations has been
made available under the Second IDA Technical Assistance Credit (1434-UG).
Financing under the project will cover the needs of the remaining two years
including a Senior Technical Advisor (24 r/m), a Financial Analyst  (24 m/m)
and  an  Industrial  Engineer  (24 m/m),  as well  as  funds for legal and
accounting services and special'zed consulting services, equipment and
materials, and computer hardware and software.
Uganda Development Corporation (UDC) (US$2.1 million)
24.       During the  course of  the project the UDC will greatly reduce its
role as a holding company for industrial sector parastatals. The ultimate
role of the UDC, or the need for alternative institutional arrangements to
fulfill the Government's objectives of stimulating industrial sector growth
and encouraging private investment in industrial enterprises, will be
reviewed as part of the SARAP study. Thus, at negotiations agreement was
reached with Government that, prior to reaching agreement on the findings
of the SARAP study, UDC would consult with IDA before committing to any
investment exceeding  $250,000.   Under the  present UDC restructuring plan,
half of the portfolio is to be fully or partly divested and one third will
be  liquidated.    Selected  retained  companies  are to be rehabilitated to
enhance their performance thus increasing the prospect of their eventual
divestiture. Hence, during the project period, UDC's portfolio will shrink
and its ownership in retained companies will be significantly reduced as it
seeks to expand private sector participation through public stock offerings
and greater joint venture ownership.   Consideration will  be given  for IDA
support to implement and consolidate the agreed long term role of UDC, or
agreed alternative institutional arrangements, in future lending operations.
25.       The  following  scope  of work  for  UDC  in  the  short term was
discussed with Government and UDC at appraisal and agreed at regotiations.
The UDC wills



- 13 -
(a) supervise and assist with management audits, preparation of
performance  contracts,  and  financial  and  other   analyses  in
companies within the UDC portfolio identified by PIES, Ministry of
Industry and Technology, to be the beneficiaries of special
rehabilitation assistance, and ensure the preparation of up-to-
date accounts in these companies and progressively in the rest of
the enterprises to be retained;
(b) supervise and monitor the use of funds made available to selected
enterprises for rehabilitation and management/technology contracts
under performance contracts, and short-term advisory services,
undertake training as required to strengthen the technical and
management skills of the selected enterprises;
(c)  strengthen  the   organization,  staffing,  Bcards  of  Directors,
management systems and operating procedures of the selected UDC
portfolio companies;
(d)  supervise  and   assist  with   the  liquidation  and  divestiture
arrangements for UDC portfolio companies consistent with the
Government's and UDC's portfolio strategy, the adopted recommenda-
tions of the SCD-managed Divestiture Design study and decisions of
the Divestiture Implementation Committee;
(e) with assistance from PIES as required, introduce in retained
portfolio companies, corporate planning and management systems for
performance monitoring and evaluation;
(f) implement budgeting and control systems, and financial reporting
and auditing systems for the selected UDC enterprises taking
advice from the SCD on the accounting and reporting standards to
be applied;
(g) train its own and enterprise staff to implement and maintain the
management systems and reporting arrangements.
To ensure the successful integration of this component with others,
agreement was reached at negotiations that appropriate counterpart staff
will be appointed by no later than May 31, 1989.
26.       The project  will finance a Chief Operating Officer (24 m/m) and a
Chief Financial Officer (24 m/m) and consultant services in accounting,
management systems and special services, including the resolution of legal
issues surrounding disputed ownership, production engineering, and in-
country training for UDC and enterprise senior staff. The UDC will prepare
an annual work program for review with IDA, and in order to maximize the
benefit of specialist inputs, in the first three months of their contract
period the UDC specialist team will develop a work program with the PIES,
defining areas of direct cooperation and joint effort, such as the
establishment of financial and other targets for corporate planning and
performance  monitoring.    Agreement  on  the  provision  and mechanism for



- 14 -
approval of annual work programs was reached at  negotiations.  The primary
focus of all consultant services will be in support of enterprises selected
for comprehensive management and technical services to generate an early
production  response,   and  in   support  of  the  agreed  divestiture  and
liquidation program. Funds will also be provided for office equipment and
materials, computers and software for selected 'enterprises, and vehicles.
IDA funds will be passed on to UDC in the form of equity.
Management  Audits,  Management   and   Technology   Contracts   for  Public
Industrial Enterprises (US$3.2 million)
27.       Certain  project  components  are  designed  to  facilitate  rapid
recovery of manufacturing output as a contribution to the overall supply
response anticipated from macroeconomic reforms being sponsored through the
Government's Economic Recovery Program. The critical deficiency in this
area, which potentially stands in the way of the desired supply response
from the public enterprise sector, is the paucity of experienced management
and specialized technical skills and heavy indebtedness. Furthermore, the
strategy for assistance to the industrial sector enterprises through
project components is to identify and focus the bulk of available resources
upon a limited number of economically viable, and commercially sound
enterpriues, rather than spread resources thinly over all industrial
parastatals. Thus, provision is made under the project for management
audits of about 10 of the most important and promising manufacturing
enterprises, leading to the selection of a smaller number, perhaps five,
for   comprehensive   management,   technology- or  other  special  advisory
services.   These  inputs will  be  packaged within  performance contracts
between Government and the enterprises. Only public industrial enterpri-
ses will be subjected to management audits and subsequent contracted
support  services.    A  note  on  criteria  for  selection of manufacturing
enterprises for this technical assistance and a description of the process
and instruments is provided in Annex IX. The actual number of enterprises
receiving assistance will depend on a combination of individual company
needs and the pool of available resources. The ten management audits are
estimated to cost about US$500,000 and about US$2.0 million is provided for
management and technology contracts, advisory services, and performance
contracts. Performance contracts will only be prepared for the finally
selected companies for management and technology advisory support. In
addition to the formal audit and contracted services support, about
US$700,000 is allocated equally for PIES and UDC administration, to be used
for short term urgenIly required advisory services in the period before the
management  and  technology  contracts  become  effective.    Agreement  was
reached at negotiations thats  (i)  IDA will  review and  approve companies
proposed for management audits, management, technology and performance
contracts; and (ii) firms to receive management andlor technology contracts
should be assured allocation of their assessed foreign exchange needs and
related local credit, covering the first year of the performance contract;
and (iii) audits should be completed and perfo.mance contracts for those
selected should be prepared and approved by  IDA  by  March  1,  1990.   IDA
approval of performance contracts under (i) above will encompass agreement
between the enterprise and Government on all aspects of the enterprise's
operations  and   commercial environment   that  are  needed  for  improved



-15 -
performance, including wage and salary levels, pricing and availability of'
inputs.
Divestiture Support Services (US$1.0 million)
28.       Provision  is made  under  the project for specialized consulting
services, including legal, accounting and merchant banking services, to
design and supervise an agreed divestiture implementation program. In the
first phase, as part of a Divestiture Design Study to be financed under TA
II, coLsultants will identify the range of instruments and modalities, and
institutional arrangements feasible in Uganda to facilitate public stock
offerings, joint venture participation and direct sale of government
companies and other divestiture options, and to prepare a detailed dives-
titure implementation program for Government review and approval. Terms of
Reference for the Divestiture Design Study are provided in Annex IV.
Agreement was reached at negotiations for completion of the study and the
resulting agreement with IDA on the divestiture implementation plan by May
31, 1989.   The  second phase of divestiture support will entail procurement
of the appropriate expertise and beginning implementation of an approved
divestiture  program.    In  the  first  phase,  merchant  banking and other
specialists will review the prospective roles of private and public banks,
and other financial intermediaries and potential participants in a future
capital market, advising the Government of any requirements for legislative
reform and a regulatory framework which could not only facilitate its
divestiture program but the gradual evolution of an effective capit'al
market. The SCD will establish a working group comprised of senior civil
servants to review the phase one consultants' recommendations for policy and
administrative   sctions   to   facilitate   the   anticipated   divestiture
implementation program (see para. 39 for further detail).
29.       To provide a mechanism and overall authority for  taking decisions
as required in the course of implementation, the Government will establish a
Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC)  under  the  Chairmanship  of the
Minister for Finance, and including the Attorney General and the Ministry of
Industry and Technology. This composition will,provide the government with
a small team of technically appropriate and involved ministers who, in
addition to ensuring appropriate overall checks and balances, will review
and approve overall proposals for divestiture of enterprises arising from
the work of phase two consultants. The composition of DIC is the same as
the Negotiations Committee formally established along with the Verifications
Committee and Custodian Board under the Expropriated Properties Act of 1985.
Common membership of the DIC and Negotiations Committee should greatly
facilitate divestiture by assisting with removal of ownership barriers to
divestiture  actions.   The  Minister  of  Industry  and  Technology  should
otherwise be able to decide upon the majority of required divestiture day to
day   actions   consistent   with   the  Government's  divestiture  program.
Specialist services for divestiture/ liquidation actions will be managed by
the agency (PIES/UDC) responsible for the enterprise under study. Overall
responsibility for the rate of progress and results will be vested with the
DIC which will have PIES as its secretariat. It is informally understood
that PIES services can be used to assist the Negotiations Committee in
finalizing agreement on ownership disputes critical to implementation of the



- 16 -
divestiture  program.    Agreement was  reached  at negotiations   on  the
composition  and  terms  of  reference  of  the  Divestiture  Implementation
Committee (Annex XIII).   Obtaining and  retaining public  confidence in the
Government's divestiture program is key to its eventual success, hence the
first companies in wVaich a public stock offering is promoted should be
commercially attractive going concerns. Therefore, agreement was reached at
negotiations that ID,i approval is obtained of the companies to be divested
utilizing  project  services.    The  project  will  also  finance legal and
accounting services needed to clarify ownership and outstanding debt
obligations prior to divestiture and liquidation.
Diagnostic Studies and Improvement Plans (US$3.0 million)
30.       The  first  phase  of  the  rationalization  program  outside  the
industrial sector comprises undertaking about six detailed diagnostic
studies for large financially or strategically significant parastatal
enterprises (see Annex V).   As  opposed  to management  audits,  which are
limited  in   the  project   to  industrial   enterprises  and  tend  to  be
operationally oriented, diagnostic studies are to include comprehensive
reviews of the role, objectives, strategy, plans and policy environment of
major parastatal entities, as well as identifying specific management,
technical, financial and other prcblems which currently limit their ability
to adequately fulfill their  legitimate role.   The  terms of  reference for
Individual diagnostic studies will be prepared by the SCD and the line
ministry concerned and agreed with the  Bank.    Diagnostic  studies  are to
lead to detailed improvement plans subsequent to review and agreement within
Government and with IDA on the scope of operations, required restructuring,
policy and other reforms, and on the diagnosis of key problems requiring
detailed  review  and  improvement  planning.    Agreement  was  reached  at
negotiations on the criteria, economic, financial and strategic, used in
selecting parastatals for diagnostic study and on the list of parastatals
to be studied with the resources made available under the project. The
selection criteria and a prioritized list of 12 parastatals for diagnostic
study is provided in Annex V. The six parastatals to be studied first
includes the Bank of Uganda, Uganda Commercial Bank and the Uganda
Development Bank, Uganda Airlines, the Nyanza Textile Industries Limited
and the Uganda  Electricity  Board.    The  order  of  priority  attached by
Government for studies to be financed under the project was influenced by
understandings that certain of the diagnostic studies would be financed
under other existing or proposed IDA projects, although conducted generally
in accordance with procedures agreed under this project (for eg. Coffee and
other Marketing Boards as part of proposed IDA agriculture sector lending,
Uganda Post and Telecommunications Corporation as part of the proposed IDA
Telecommunications project).
31.       The  project  will  finance  consultant  contracts for undertaking
diagnostic studies for individual enterprises or groups of enterprises (eg.
the  Government  banks).    Estimated  technical assistance requirements are
about 240 mlm, plus support services.    Provision  is  made  under  the SCD
component  for   a  full   time  Public  Enterprises  Specialist  to  assist
Government with the procurement and supervision of consultants, and with



- 17 -
the  process  of  review  and  adoption  of  recommendations for longer-term
improvement prograws.
Proiect ManaRement Support (US$190,000)
32.       The project is a complex undertaking for a country so  depleted of
administrative skills and so much under pressure to manage a comprehensive
program of economic recovery. Thus the project will provide short term
censulting services to the SCD to enable it to fulfill its project
management role, including procurement, contract negotiations and project
accounting, monitoring and reporting to IDA on project performance, and
general administration.
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
33.       Total project costs are estimated at about US$19.35  million.  The
estimated foreign exchange cost is US$14.5 million, or about 75 percent of
total  costs.    Base  cost  estimates  are  in  beginning-1988  prices  and
converted into US dollars using an exchange rate of US$1.0 - USh 150.
Physical contingencies amounting to 52 of equipment costs and 52 of the
cost of consultant services are included. Annual inflation rates nave been
estimated as follows:
Assumed Annual Inflation Rates (percent per annum)
1989      1990       1991      1992        1993       1994       1995
Local      60         34        17         10         10          10        10
Foreign     3          3         3          4          4           4         4
Annex X contains project cost tables presented with and without contin-
gencies. A summary of the foreign and local costs in US Dollar equivalents
and the percentage which foreign exchange makes of each item is presented
on the following page.



- 18a
Estimated Costs                                          (USS '000)
Local     Foreij     Total      ZFE
Ministry of Industry and Technology (T.A.)
Public Industrial Ent. Sec't.             742     2,907       3,649     80
Uganda Development Corp'n.                501      2,140      2,641     81
Subtotal             1,243    5,047       6i,290      80
hinistry of Finance (T.A.)
Statutory Corporations Division           268     2,122       2,390      89
Sector Admin. Reform Study                108       500         608      82
Diagnostic Studies                        489      3,007      3,496      86
Project Management Assistance             175        188        363      52
Subtotal            1,040      5,817      6,857       83
Management Audits and Contracts         2,327      2,640      4,967       53
Divestiture Services                        0      1,000      1,000     100
Subtotal            2,327      3,640      5,967       69
Total Project Costs (Ex.Dut/Tax.)         4,610    14,504    19,114
Duties and Taxes                            234          0       234
Total (including Duties & Taxes)          4,844    14,504    19,348         75
Financint Plan
34.        This  IDA  credit  of  SDR  11.70  million  (equivalent  to US$15
million) will finance approxiamtoly 78 percent of project costs; this will
cover approximately US$14.5.million of foreign costs and US$0.5 million of
local costs. The Government will bear the cost of all local base staff
salaries and benefits, office space, and various local support services in
connection with studies, accounting  and legal  advice.   Parallel financing
has been sought from Canadian International Development Agency and the U.K.
Overseas Development Association, and approaches will be made to other
potential donors, to permit the number of enterprises to receive assistance
in the form of management audits, diagnostic studies, improvement plans, and
management and technology contracts to be increased at any time during the
project that  such  funding  becomes  available.    Table  1  sumuarizes the
financing plan.



- 19 -
Table 1: FINANCING PLAN
For the Period Dec. 1988 to Nov. 1994
(Us$ millions)
Local    Foreign      Total
Sources of Funds:
Borrowings (IDA)                           0.5      14.5        15.0
Government of Uganda                       4.1        -          4.1
4.6      14.5        19.1
Uses of Funds:
Ministry of Ind. & Tech. (T.A.)
Public Ind. Ent. Secretariat               0.7       2.9         3.6
Uganda Development Corporation             0.5       2.1         2.6
Ministry of Finance (T.A.)
Statutory Corporations Division            0.3       2.1         2.4
Sector Admin. Reform Study                 0.1       0.5         0.6
Diagnostic Studies                         0.5       3.0         3.5
Project Management Assistance              0.2       0.2         0.4
Enterprise Rehab'n & Divestiture
Manag't Audits & Contracts                 2.3       2.6         5.0
Divestiture Services                         -       1.0         1.0
Total Project Costs                           4.6      14.5        19.1
Duties & Taxes                                0.2       0.0         0.2
Total Incl. Duties & Taxes                    4.8      14.5        19.3
Procurement
35.         Consultants and experts to be financed under the project will be
selected and hired in accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for the
Employment and Use of Consultants. Contracts for equipment will be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement with the exception of locally
procured goods and services, which will be obtained through competitive
bidding advertised locally (LCB) using procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Local procurement below $100,000 is justified for up to a total of
US$500,000 for equipment and materials as the packages to be procured are
small and procurement is to be made at irregular intervals throughout the
project  period.    Minor  items  costing  US$20,000  or  less  (e.g. office
supplias, computer software) will be purchased following local shopping
procedures by obtaining quotations from at least three suppliers. Thus,



- 20 -
procurement of goods and services under IDA procurement guidelines and
subject to prior review by IDA exceeds 90Z of total goods and services
financed  under  the  project.    All  ICB  and  all  consultant procurement
documentation and arrangements are to be subject to prior review by the
Association whereas LCB will be subject to post procurement review by the
Association. A summary of procurement methods is presented in Table 2.
Tab.e 2: PROCUREMENT METHODS a/
(US$ millions)
Consul-
ICB      LCB    NA b/   tants    Other c/  Total
Technical Assistance/Consultant Services                11.7              11.7
(11.7)           (11.7)
Training                                                           0.8     0.8
(0.8)   (0.8)
Operating Costs                                 4.1                        4.1
Vehicles/Spares/Equipment   2.0        0.5                                 2.5
(2.0)    (0.5)                                (2.5)
SUB-TOTAL      2.0       0.5      4.1      11.7      0.8    19.f
(2.0)    (0.5)             (11.7)    (0.8)  (15.0)
aj Amounts in parenthesis are IDA-financed.
b!  Labor, housing, services and other inputs to be supplied by local
implementing agencies.
c/  Training will be based on specifically assessed needs in relation to
study outputs, counterpart staff capabilities and enterprise management
requirements.
Disbursements
36.       The proceeds  of the  Credit should  be disbursed over a period of
about 72 months from about December 1988 through November 1994. The proceeds
of the Credit will be disbursed against: 100 percent of the cost of
consultants, local or foreign, 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80
percent of local expenditures for training, equipment, vehicles, office
supplies and materials. The expected, schedule of disbursements (Annex XI)
from the Credit is based on standard disbursement profiles for Bank Loans
and credits for technical assistance in the Africa Region. The closing date
for the Credit will be Hay 31, 1995, about six months after project
completion.
37.       A Special Account of up to US$500,000 will be established  in U.S.
dollars in a commercial bank on term and ccnditions acceptable to IDA.
These funds will be maintained by the Statutory Corporations Division to



-21 -
cover project expenditures; and will be replenished by IDA on the basis of
withdrawal requests  covering  aggregated  monthly  expenditures.   Payments
against contracts of less than US$20,000 and local training programs will-be
disbursed against statements of expenditure with the underlying documenta-
tion held available locally for inspection by IDA supervision missions. All
other expenditures will be fully documented.
Accounts and Audit
38.       The Government  will maintain  separate acc  'ns  for all expendi-
tures  funded  under  the  Credit.    The  project  accounts will be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to IDA, including an audit of
statements of  expenditure.   The audit  reports, of  such scope and in such
detail as IDA shall reasonably request, will be submitted to IDA no less
than six months following the end of the Government's fiscal year.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Proilect Management and Policy Review Arrangements
39.       Responsibility for  overall project management will be vested with
the Statutory Corporatisns Division (SCD),  Ministry  of  Finance.   Project
management functions to be assumed by SCD include procurement, contracting,
accounting and disbursement records, operation of the Special Account for
the project, and project monitoring and reporting, both internally and to
IDA. A diagrammatic representation of the institutional framework for
assistance and management of the project is provided in Annex VI. As the
focal point for project management, and the agency managing the SARAP,
diagnostic studies, and the Divestiture Design Study., the SCD will also
manage the review process for consultant recommendations arising from these
studies. To facilitate the review process, the SCD will be responsible for
establishing, with approval from the Minister for Finance, working groups
with membership appropriate to the subject under review. In each case, core
membership includes the Permanent Secretary of Planning and Economic
Development, the Permanent Secretary for Industry and Technology, the
Secretary to the Treasury and the Head of the SCD, though overall
composition of the working groups will change as follows:
(i) Diagnostic Studies: Additional members will include the Permanent
Secretary for the line ministry to which the parastatal under
study reported, at least one other senior civil servant from that
or a related Ministry and, optionally, the General Manager or
Chairman of the Board or a Director of the enterprise concerned
and a private sector representative with sufficient experience and
knowledge to make an important contribution to the review process;
(ii) SARAP:    Additional  members  will  include Permanent Secretaries
with significant parastatals in their portfolios, and senior
officials with responsibility for the key technical functions of
direct concern, eg. legal and auditing, and other knowledgeable
and experienced senior present or former officials as appropriate;



- 22 -
(iii) Divestiture Design  Studys    Additional  members will include the
Chairman of the Uganda Development Corporation and the Managing
Director of the Uganda Commercial Bank.
It is anticipated that, in each study, after a period of two to three
months of deliberation on consultant recommendations, and discussions with
IDA, the line ministry concerned should prepare and present through the
Minister concerned to the President's Economic Advisory Council (PEC) and
Cabinet for approval a submission generally endorsed by the working group.
In the case of the Diagnostic Studies, once the PEC and cabinet had
endorsed a set of policy and other reforms, the SCD will instruct the
consultants to prepare a detailed imuprovement and implementation plan and
budget as part of the final report on the enterprise. These plans should
form a basis to solicit donor funds to undertake the agreed parastatal im-
provements.
Pro1ect Monitoring and Evaluation
40.       Two  mechanisms  will  be  applied  to ensure close monitoring and
evaluation of project performance and adequate supervision by Government
and IDAS quarterly reports and annual work programs.
(i) Quarterly reports will be prepared on project implementation
progress and expenditure and submitted to IDA by the SCD which
will arrange, in turn, for PIES and UDC to submit to it quarterly
reports on the implementation of their components sufficiently far
in advance to permit their integration with the overall SCD report
to IDA;
(ii) Work programs are to be prepared by SCD, UDC and PIES, for each
calendar year, for review and discussion with IDA three months in
advance of the start of the calender year concerned, and for the
remainder of the calendar year in which project support for the
agency begins.
Roles and Responsibilities for Proiect Implementation
41.       Respective roles and responsibilities  for  implementation  of the
project are as follows
A. SARAPs    SCD will manage consultant procurement and will be
responsible for establishing working groups to review consultant
recommendations, preparation of submissions to PEC and the Cabinet
and for ensuring that IDA is kept informed of findings and has the
opportunity to comment;
B. Diagnostic Studies: SCD will manage consultant procurement and
will ensure that representative working groups are established to
review the recommendations of consultants at the end of the
diagnostic study phase in each case. SCD will assist the line
Ministry concerned with the particular parastatal under study to



- 23 -
prepare required submissions to PEC and Cabinet reflecting the
views  of   the working  group.  With  thc  decisions  of  higher
authorities on how to proceed in hand, the SCD will manage the
consultants input to the second phase of preparing detailed
improvement and rehabilitation plans.
C. Divestiture  Design  Study  and  Implementation:    The  SCD is
responsible for procuring and overseeing consultants for the
divestiture design study and will form a working group for review
of recommendations and the detailed divestiture implementation
plan proposal. The Ministry of Industry and Technology, advised by
PIES, and the UDC will be represented in this working group. The
SCD will prepare require' PEC and Cabinet submissions for the
Minister   of   Finance   as   the  chairman  of  the  Divestiture
Implementation   Committee   (DIC).        Once   the   divestiture
implementation plan and recommended facil4tating measures are
agreed, the SCD will procure implementation phase consultants and
coordinate the implementation of agreed measures. It will ensure
that enterprise specific measures recommended by the consultants
that cannot be decided by the Ministry of Industry and Technology
alone  are  promptly  put  to  and   decided  upon   by  the  DIC.
Implementation of agreed divestiture and liquidation plans and
actions is by PIES for the Ministry of Industry and Technology
portfolio companies and by UDC for its portfolio companies.
overall monitoring of progress and the responsibility for results
will be vested in the DIC on behalf of the Government.
D. Management Audits, Contracts and Short Term Advices
(a)  Short  Term  Advices  PIES  will  manage the funds for use in
directly controlled MOIT companies, and UDC will manage the
funds for its portfolio companies (US$350,000 each). Each
agency will propose   directly to  the Bank,  with a  copy of
their request to SCD, the use of the funds concerned, and
proposed TORs for consultant services requested.
(b)  Management Audits:  PIES will prepare  a list  of parastatals
to  receive  audits  in  order  of  priority according to the
agreed criteria. It will consult closely with UDC in this
process and rely on the MOIT Planning Department's industrial
economists to undertake the required effective protection and
domestic resource cost analyses to assure PIES that the
companies proposed for audits and potentially substantial
assistance are economically viable. Once the list of ten
companies is agreed with MOIT and IDA, each agency, PIES and
UDC, will assist consultants to undertake the management
audits for their respective companies.
(c) Management and Technology Contracts: PIES will prepare a
program of assistance in consultation with UDC, based on the
outcome of management audits and UDCIPIES supporting analyses
and this will be submitted to MOIT and IDA for review and



2 24 -
clearance. Once the program is agreed, performance contracts
will be drawn up and PIES and UDC will oversee, with the
enterprises with which each is concerned,  the implementation
of the contracted services, and agreed inputs.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
42.       The  project  will  contribute  to  sustained economic recovery by
improving efficiency and productivity in the administration of the public
enterprise sector and management of key parastatal enterprises; by increas-
ing local resource mobilization through increasing capacity utilization and
debt service capability of industrial enterprises and pricing, billing and
collections for public service enterprises; and by increasing private
sector  participation  in manufacturing  enterprises.   The major risks are
internal political differences regarding the extent of divestiture and the
ultimate   level   of   Government  participation  in  commercially-oriented
activities  besides   provision  of   certain  public   services.    However
Government's attempts to engage all major political interest groups in
decision-making  regarding   public  enterprise   sector  restructuring  and
divestiture augers well for the implementation of an eventual consensus
position acceptable to IDA.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
43.       The project supports the policy actions which bave  been agreed in
the context of the IDA Economic Recovery Credit. At negotiations agreement
was reached with Government:
(i)       that until such time as  an  agreement  is  reached with the
Association on the findings of the SARAP study, the Borrower
will consult with the Association before ma!zing commitments
to proceed with any investments exceeding the equivalent of
$250,000  by  UDC;  (para.   24  SAR,   Section  3.03  Credit
Agreement);
(ii)      that IDA will approve  the companies to be divested W'uth the
assistance of consultant services (para. 29 SAR, Schedule 4,
para. 13, Credit Agreement);
(iii)     on the  criteria for  selection and the Public Enterprises to
receive diagnostic studies under the project (para. 30, Annex
V, SMR. Schedule 4, para. 15, Credit Agreement);
(iv)      on  the  composition,  terms of reference and decision-making
powers  of  the  Divestiture  Implementation  Committee (DIC)
(para.  29,  Annex  XIII,  SAR,  Schedule 4, para. 13, Credit
Agreement);



- 25 -
(v)       that IDA  would  approve -each  industrial  enterprise  to be
subjected to management audit (para. 27, SAR, Schedule 4,
para. 9, Credit Agreement);
(vi)      that IDA would approve each enterprise  to receive management
and technology contracts and advisory services under the
project, and each would be subjected to a performance
contract satisfactory to IDA: firms receiving contracts would
be assured allocation of their assessed foreign exchange
needs and related local credit covering the first year of the
contract (para. 27, SAR, Schedule 4, para. 10 (a), (b),
Credit Agreement);
(vii)     that IDA  would receive  and approve annual work programs for
SCD, PIES and UDC (paras. 21, 23 and 26 respectively, SAR,
Schedule 4, para. 2 (b), Credit Agreement);
(viii)    that IDA funds utilized directly by UDC and  its subsidiaries
for management audits, management and technology contracts
will be received as equity from Government; (para. 26, SAR,
Article III, Section 3.01 (c), Credit Agreement).
Dated Covenants
is)       that staff for SCD, PIES, and UDC acceptable to IDA should be
appointed promptly and in place no later than May 31, 1989
(paras. 21, 22, and 25 respectively, SAR, Article III, para.
3.03 (b), Credit Agreement);
(x)       that the SARAP study will be  completed by  November 1, 1989,
and agreement is reached between Government and IDA on the
policy  and   institutional   environment   for   the  public
enterprise sector by March 31, 1990 (para. 20 and Annex VIII,
SAR, Schedule 4, para. 4 (a), (b), Credit Agreement);
(xi)      that diagnostic  studies  of  the  first  three  major public
enterprises commence by September 1, 1989, the second three
by December 1, 1989, and that agreement is reached with IDA
on the policy reforms and rehabilitation actions required for
the first three by March 1, 1990 and the second three by July
1, 1990 (para. 30 and Annex V, SAR, Article IV, para. 16,
Credit Agreement);
(xii)     that all management audits for industrial  public enterprises
would be completed and performance contracts agreed between
Government, the enterprises concerned and IDA by March 1,
1990 (para. 27, SAR, Article 4, para. 11); and
(xiii)    that  based  on  the  divestiture  design  study  a  detailed
divestiture implementation plan is agreed with Government and
IDA by May 31, 1989 (para. 28, SAR, Article 4, para. 14,
Credit Agreement).



- 26 -
Recomendation
44.       With the above agreements, the  Project  is  suitable  for  an IDA
Credit of SDR 11.70 million, equivalent to US$15.0 million to be made
available to the Government of Uganda for a period of 40 years with a
period of ten years grace.



-27 -
Pgeo I of 3
ands Puhile Fn_,1          P:.c
MInl.tvv of Induntrw end Technolemw
Sugarvi4ed Coamnlen
Products   Gov.    Private  oCov. or   o.   O      hi   Pro ct            Comments
sharp   Share    Ptn Nd-  List   Ou=ntinf *or *rl-
U.gand  0ev. Corp.    Moldin        100        -       -       A        Yes      -           Recent heavy interest in
ComPUiy                                                               bottling line.
Nile lr.u.rles         Ber          100        -       C       A        Yeo      n/a         Poemible MaidhWani claim
Lake Vicolria          Soft          O0  Peeni 1?.   0         A        No       n/a         Ornnd new factory
Ibttling              drinke               other 3
Printaal Ltd.          Paer         100        -       c       S        Yes      v.e.        Lonhre claim
Jubiloo Sc- Sods      Carbonted   100         -        a       a        Yes      v.g.        Poeible claime (not
drinka                                                                registered)
Ugani Slonikt i4foe.   Blanket.     100        -       C       a        Ye       V.g.        Only factory of its kind in
Ugends. Poneible claims
(not registered).
Africen Textile Hills                51    Petal       P       a        No       v.g.        Partners could take
40                                             a majority holding
Dunlop EA Ltd.         like         100        -       C       a        Ye-      good        Ounlop claim
tires
Uganda Garmnt. Ltd.  COrente        100        -       a                 e Y-    good        Eaentielly a moving operateon
Sheets
Useado FPlmlht Corp.  Fiahneta      100        -       Q       a        Ye       POem.       Only plant of itn kind         -
Kakira Sugar Faet.    Sugar          51   Madlvani    P        a        n/k      n/.
40
EA. Steel Cor.        Stel           51   Nodhiwni    P        8        No       n/a         Returned property
prodwcora              49
Sugar Corp. of UA    Plantatioe   51         eIht      P       B        No       n/a         Returned proesrty
eugar                  40
Cable Cop.             Electric      49    14hte       P       8        No       n/a         Returned property
cable.                St
LQMA                                 40    Mhelta      P       8        No       n/e
Ug,ida Raeyn Wf Ltd. Cotten         100        -       0       C        Yes      poem.       Plant valued 0 USSI million in
Texti les                                                                                    19S
i 1a Foods             Siecuite     100        -               C        yc-                  Po;ibl- Hou" of Manji claim
Sweets                                                                againet unpaid loan
L.l.S. Sible Oil                    100        -            miening
a soap
Perac  unt We                       100        -            *i- ine
Co. Ltd.
ee   0lanork.          glan          49   Madhveni    t   missing    No          n/a         Returner  property
Britieh American       cigarette.    30   British            i";ing              n/a
Tobacco                                    American
Tobacco
70
While the list ehwe 21 companie under the Ministry, eight are noew boing run by privste owners. four of whom have a majority
holding.  Iwo other come_niee have adi-appeared from the records.   Of the remining eleven cowmpnio. ten aro current or
potential cam for return to their former owners; hence, the Hinistry is playing a custodial role only.



t
- 28 -
Page 2 of 3
UDC-Oaned adinr Ihnnd Comanies
Products   LuC    Privet.  cow. or Cov.  Ownershi"   Prosp.ct            Co_ents
Shaer  ShsrLS Ptn 14dm  ist   Eusstian  *or *cl-
Uganda Spinoing Ltd.  Cotton        200      -        a       A       ND        pe.        Needs technology A mat help
yarn
Tar. Development Corp n/*           n/k       n/o     -       A                 n/a        T;oi to Mabuik  Irrigation
Schemc
Uited Garment.  ncd C.lothc".        61.6  .Jp.       C       a       No        v.g.       Partners could take majority
Ltd.                                      Cole 38.2                                        position
NYrIL                 Cloth.         85    loccl      a       a       No        W.g.       Very large *nterprise - 5 mills
drill               indiv. 15S                                      needs agt A technical
product.,                                                           assistance
Ugand  Consolidated   Rental         as   local 15    a       8       No        good       Large X of rentals for UDC and
Proerties            prwoerties                                                           gay. houses.
iAAtI                 Finiehed/      85     n/k       a       a       No        good       Has received significant
semii.fi n ished                                                     technical aesistance; Gov.
eather                                                             policy affect. enputs
TuV                    atel         100      -        a       a       No        good       Viable company, needs mgt £
product.                                                             technology help.
eatL PeakSro          Fresh blef   100       -        a       O       No        good       Needs financial restructuring;
(Nampala Sorot.)                                                                           profitable
Uaned  Livetock       Ranchn.       100       -       a       a        N@       good       Livustock needed for countr as
seat supply
PAPO                  paper          71  other 29   a         8        Ye       good       Need- mgt help.
products
Agricultural          Too            85.9   n/k       a       8        No       Wood       Mgt contracts would help.
Wnt.rpri                                                                                   Plantationsi need rehabili-
tation.
ade Grain             poultry        31.3  Cov 47    a        9        Ys       pose.      Nationalized in 1976
N  int                 Feedls               OFO.I le8
Othar
Long* Development     Starch         99.8    -        -       9        -        poor       Plant looted in 1985. closed
Corp.
Uganda Cesent  nd.    Ceuent        86.1   n/k        a       a        No       poor       Plant technology outdated but
Ltd. (Torare and Hime) lIm                                                                has aonopoly position;
finances far out of date.
Uoan  Crane           2nvestment   79        n/k      n/a    a         No       poor       Possiblrolo in investment
Induetriaies          Co.                                                                  financin
Stel Corp. of        Stel           28.3 9adhvsni   P        a        No       n/a        Not under UDC current agt.
E. Africa             Products                78.7                                         8c;ng rehabilitated with
Italian loan.
Ugadev lnk            Invoet_ent   100        -       C       a        No       none       Finance for UDC companies
Co.                                                                  only.
lEsti African         Spirit.        St   DFCU 93I   P        a        -        n/a        Partners aay take eajority
Disti I l;n.ries                          Duncan                                           poeition
Cilboy Natheon



- 29 -
Peag 3 of 3
LOC-Owned andlbr Manaood Coemani..
Productt   UiC    Private  Cow, or  aov.  Ownership  Propect            Co_mnt
Shares  Shares   Ptn Mdn Lint  Qun-tion  for sale
African Cnen-ic.      Tableware      44.6   n/k       a       C        .       good        Needs technolog  £ egt help
Slenderm (U) Ltd.    Tle             99.s    -        a       C       No       PoC.        Neod, technology a mt halo'
Blending
Ugand4  Crane Ecetet-  OQwing/      100      -        .       C       No        poor       Only  eset is land a fow
packing                                                             bui ingd
Oe"tic Appliance.   Dooetic          56.3     n/k     -       C       n/k      poor        Cloed wines 1975.  Could be
Refrigerators                                                       merged with Tumpeco
Aeeocieted Pavor      Packing        25  NMdhvani.   P        c       Ye        poor       Very w*ak financial poeition.
-                                ~~~~~~~~~~~me,rial for  Nehts 37.5
industry
Ugedey Properties     Real          100      -        -       C       -         -          Being wound up.
etaste
tSukulu N4ino-                       66.9     n/k     -      C        -         n/o        Being wound up; never in
production
Item Nin"                          n/k       -        -      C        -        n/s         Cloded since 1976. being wound
up
Agro-Cohicala Ltd.   Chemicals       25       Mnhta   -       C       Ye        n/a        Never went into production.
for
ftrti liaer
Volfro. ?nveteente   Wolfram         30       n/k     -      _.       no        n/.        Seing wound up.
or.
Uganda o   s *        Gunny          26    girls      P      Meo      ND        n/a        Not under UC current egt.
Neeian Ltd.           bag.i                group
Aetmeited Match       matche.        15  Nidhvani    P       Meg      No        n/a        Not under UDC current mgt.
Co. Ltd.                                     as5
0ev. Finence Corp.   FInanco         25   lF  25      a      A"       No        n/a
of ilianda            Co.                  CDC 2S
DEB25
Chillineton Tool     "Fe.,           18   Foreign    P       m"       No        n/a        Foreign owners running.
85                                           Not under UCC egt.
Torere Indwutri;l     F rti-         aS 0th. local  a        _ag      No        n/a        Project cloeed down
Cheulcale              liner               Colo. is
Thirty-five companies are shown ao under UDC management or supervision. However, out of the". four are
effectively outeide UOC juriediction, nine are being wound up or nevor went into production. and another
two oxsit as dormant companies. Henen there are really only 20 companie. in the LOC portfolio, three
of which involvo unrmlved ownership questions.   The key problem, for the majority  are  lack of
technology  nd sparee. weak _nageent  and eatremely poor financial positions.  However, mny of the
Compania, occupy poto.tislly  trong positions in a revitalized economy by virtue of their plant or
oroduct monooly.  Sinifieant opportunities emist for the longer time period for foreign. or local
partners who are willing to provide thea  input.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
UGANDA PUBLIC ENTEUPiIS2S PROJECT
MANAGEMENT AUDITS AND PLHABILITATION MEASURES
FOR MANUFACTUrtING INtEUSTRIES
1.      Under the proposed project PIES will silect up to ten suitable
companies for management audits. The objictivci of the audits is to determine
both a priority ranking for rehabilitation (given that project resources are
strictly limited) and the particular type of management/technical
rehabilitation assistance that would render each company more profitable and
efficient.
2. To be eligible for consideration under the audit and rehabilitation
project component, a company should be:
(a)      potentially profitable or able to further increase profitability
as a result of the assistance provided;
(b)      must be economically efficient (based on estimates of effective
protection and domestic resource cost analyses).
Preference will be given to domestic resource based companies with relative-
ly low requirements for foreign inputs and strong potential for both exports
as well as import substitution.
3. Once a company has been selected, and then audited it is likely that
rehabilitation assistance will be provided in one of three generic forms -
management, technology and advisory services contracts - each bound within
the framework of a performance contract between the enterprise and the
Government. These instruments are described as follows:
(il      Performance Contract:  A document that sets out specific targets
and performance levels, both quantitative and qualitative, for a
period of time during which rehabilitation is being undertaken.
The document would preferably be binding on the Government and the
enterprise;
(ii)     Management Contract:  entailing contracting either general,
financial or technical management assistance for a specified
period in order to improve specific functions of the company and
to develop suitable local management;
(iii)    Technology Contract:  entailing contracting for certain ad hoc
technical expertise in order to better deploy existing machinery,
or to introduce more appropriate machinery and methods;
(iv)    Advisory Services Contract:  entailing contracting for the design
and introduction of specific processes, methods, or upgrading
skills on the job in defined areas of a companies operation, eg.
management information systems, marketing, production control etc.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
Categorization b7 Government of Uganda of Public Enterprises
to be Divested, Retained or Liquidated
(Submitted to IDA in May 1988 in fulfillment of a monitorable
action for the release of the second tranche of the First
Economic Recovery Credit.)
Category A
Enterprises in which Government currently wishes to retain IOOZ share-
holding:
1.   Lake Katwe Project
2.   Uganda National Parks
3.   Peoples Transport Company
4.  Uganda Railways Corporation
5.  Uganda Posts and Telecommunication
6.  Uganda Transport Corporation
7.  Uganda Electricity Board
8.  National Water & Sewage Corporation
9.  New Vision
10.  Transacean (U) Ltd.
11.  National Housing & Construction Corporation
12.  Produce Marketing Board (PMB)
13.  Coffee Marketing Board (CMB)
14.  Lint Marketing Board (LMB)
15.  Uganda Development Bank
16.  National Insurance Corporation
17.  Uganda Airlines
18.  Kampala International Hotel Corporation
19. Uganda Pharmaceuticals
20.  Nile Breweries
21.  Foods and Beverages
22.  Uganda Motors
23. Uganda Hardwares
24. Lake Victoria Bottling Company
25. Uganda Spinning Mill Lira
26. Torro Development Corporation
27. Uganda Tea Growers Corporation
28. Uganda Tea Authority
29. Bank of Uganda
30. Uganda Commercial Bank
31. Uganda Development Corporation
32. Uganda Dairy Corporation



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Category B
Enterprises in which Government currently wants to retain majority
shareholding but are to be run as joint venturess
1.   National Sugar Works Kinyala
2.   Uganda Cement Industry
3.   Nyanza Textiles Industry (NYTIL)
4.   Tororo Chemical & Fertilizers Ltd.
5.   Uganda Fishnet Manufacturers ltd.
6.   United Garment Industries Ltd.
7.   Uganda Livestock Industries
8.   Ugadev Bank
9.   East African Distilleries Ltd.
10, Agricultural Enterprises Ltd.
11. Uganda Hotels
12. TUMPECO
13. Kakira Sugar Works
14. Lugazi Sugar Works
15. Lango Development Company
16. East African Steel Corporation
17. UGMA Engineering Corporation
18. Cable Corporation
19. African Textile Mill - Mbale
20. Printpak (U) Ltd.
21. Jubilee Ice and Soda Works Ltd.
22. Uganda Consolidated Properties
23. Uganda Grain Milling Co. Ltd.
24. TUFMAC
25. Uganda Blanket Manufacturers Ltd.
26. Shell (U) Ltd.
27. Total (U) Ltd.
28. Agip (U) MLtd.
29.  Kilembe Mines
30. Uganda Meat Packers
31. ULATI
32. Uganda Crane Industries
33.  Housing Finance Company of Uganda
34. PAPCO
Category C
Enterprises where Government wants to divest its interest and sell to
private enterprises or wind up:
1.   Uganda Air Cargo Ltd.
2.   African Ceramics
3.   Uganda Rayon
4.   General Merchandise Co. Ltd.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
5.   Intra African Trading Co.
6.   Republic Motors
7.   Uganda Industrial Machinery
8.   Blenders Uganda Ltd.
9.   Uganda Garments
10. Associated Paper Industries Ltd.
11. Mukisa Foods
12. Dunlop (U) Ltd.
13. ECTA (U) Ltd.
14. Gomba Motors
15. Domestic Appliances
16. Agro-Chemicals Limited
17. Uganda Crane Estates
18. Sukulu Mines
19. Itama Mines
20. Ugadev Properties
21. Uganda Toni Services Ltd.
22. R. 0. Hamilton Ltd.



- 34 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 4
UGANDA PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
DIVESTITURE DESIGN STUDY
Background
1.        The Government of Uganda has decided to undertake a program of
full or partial divestiture of a proportion of its wholly and partially
owned industrial -nterprises. To facilitate this divestiture program, and
to lay the grounuwork for longer term restructuring of the parastatal
sector, the Government has received financing from the International
Development Association (IDA) for anticipated services: consultants, legal,
financial and accounting services and possible merchant banking ansistance.
As a first step in this divestiture program the Government wishes to be
apprised of its options regarding the instruments and modalities it might
apply to expedite divestiture which should involve both public stock
offerings and direct sale of commercially viable or potentially viable going
concerns, as well as companies whose assets are to be liquidated. The
Government's initial list of enterprises to be divested or liquidated is
attached, along with an annotated list identifying the status of these
companies in terms of their ownership and operating condition (Annex I).
2.        The objectives of the review are to:
i)   determine the capacity, interests and needs of the existing
private and public commercial banks, financial
intermediaries, and local businessmen to participate in the
various processes and outcomes inherent in successful
divestiture of the designated companies;
ii)   specifically report on the need, overall role and usage,
size, mechanisms for operation and location(s) for a
government requested fund to be established for the sole
purpose of assisting in the divestiture processes;
iii)   define the range of feasible instruments to utilize in
Uganda, given the current legal, economic and financial
wituation, to undertake divestiture/liquidation of the
selected goveriment companies;
iv)   present general divestiture processes for each class of
actions concerned, i.e. viable candidates for public issue;
firms to be restructured with foreign/local partners: firms
to be liquidated; firms for sale of minority issues, etc
v)   prepare terms of reference, and the desired packaging and
presentation of tasks to facilitate: (a) government's
ongoing discussions with IDA; (b) procurement of the services



- 35 -
Annex IV
Page 2 of 4
of competent and experienced companies and/or advisors to
implement the various processes involved in a
divestiture/liquidation program.
3.        In line with these broad objectives, the specific tasks of the
consultants would include, inter alia, to:
i). provide a brief overview of the development and present
state of Uganda's financial markets and the implications for
capital market development, building upon already existing
reviews by the World Bank and its consultants;
ii)   review the laws, regulations and policies that govern the
market and availability of capital in Uganda, including:
- an analysis of their current effect on capital formation and
market development;
- tax policy on dividends, capital gains, government and
non-government securities, and also implicit taxes such as _
stamp duties, registration fees, etc;
- security exchange regulations and company law;
- laws and incentives related to mergers and acquisitions;
- the normal lending criteria established by commercial banks
and determine its potential effect on the financial
components of the divestiture program;
- the role of appraisal surplus resulting from revaluation of
assets, as this relates to meeting collateral lending
requirements; the cost of asset appraisals and the impact of
asset based taxes mw't also be considered;
iiiY.  analyze the current streigths and weaknesses of the present
operators in the capital market, including:
- type and number of institutions (banks and other financial
intermediaries, insurance companies, savings and loan
associations, etc.);
- financial services provided and types of financial
instruments used (debt, equity and quasi-equity).
- stock brokers, and their prospective role in dtvelopment of
stock markets.



_ 36 -
Annex IV
Page 3 of 4
iv)   assess to the extent possible, interest by the business
community in those companies listed for divestiture, and
their general financial needs and preferred modalities in
terms of acquiring total or partial ownership, and/or running
these businesses. Consideration should be undertaken for
potential buyers such as institutions, other corporations,
management and/or employee groups and customers.
v) recommuend measures that need to be taken to develop or
further strengthen Uganda's capacity to facilitate the
proposed program and to use it as a step in the further
development of local capital markets, including legislative,
policy, and regulatory reforms and the need for new financial
instruments to fill critical financing gaps, including
specifically the use, size, mechanismr for operations and
locatioas of a government requested fund for divestiture
purposes.
vi)   prepare written advice for Government on its options for
restructuring equity in companies that it wishes to retain as
majority holdings, while also ensuring strong private sector
equity participation plus management and incentives for
private sector investment in company growth.
vii)   through discussions with government (MOIT, UDC, others as
appropriate) and utilizing currently available data, plus
company inspections group the companies by most likely sale
modality (e.g. public/private stock offering, joint venture,
direct sale to local and/or foreign investors, etc) and
utilizing one company in each group describe in detail the
process steps/techniques/approaches most likely to be used in
a successful divestiture program. Within this context:
a)   clearly identify what can be done at the present
time, given existing legal, financial and political
constraints,
b)   what could be done if the restraints were removed,
and the benefits to be derived from these
alternative approaches,
c)   the steps required of government, at a policy
level, and technically, to remove the constraints
or to fill existing needs,
viii)   assess and report on local capabilities to undertake any or
all of the actions/recommendations in paragraphs v), and vi);



- 37 -
Annex IV
Page 4 of 4
ix)   based on the overall analysis of market needs/limitations
and the forecast modalities including inherent processes,
provide detailed recommendations on the use of contractual
services to implements
a)   changes/developments in market structures and
instruments,
b)   the specific divestiture program.
For both a) and b) above provide TOR's and guidance to government
on procurement of these services.
Qualifications
4.        The consultant(s) will need to have had, significant experience in
divestiture programs and the use of applicable modalities, and be, or have
worked closely with one or more of the major merchant banking companies.
The consultant(s) should have had direct experience with or recent exposure
to the issues and options for undertaking divestiture of public enterprise.
preferably in a developing country environment.
Timetable
5.        The consultant(s) is to have completed a draft report and a
debriefing of Government and IDA addressing each of the above-mentioned
objectives and tasks, within four months from the start of fieldwork. A
final draft report, including an outline divestiture action program and
terms of reference for specialized assistance for implementation of the
program should be presented to Government within one month of receiving
Government coments on the draft.
* S.



- 38 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
DIAGNOSTIC STJDIES OF KEY PUBLIC ENTERPRISES
Study Methodology, Coverage and Sequence
1.      (a)  A diagnostic study is made up of 3 distinct phases:
detailed analysis of the enterprises' current operations and
potential, including its overall role and structure within
the parastatal sector;
interim report with recommendations for changes in role,
structure, and operational efficiency for presentation to and
discussion and agreement on recommendations between
Government and IDA;
preparation of a final report containing implementation plans
and budgets and other requirements for successful implementa-
tion of the agreed changes in policy and operational
characteristics.
(b) Detailed Analysis
Analysis and areas for recommendations will covers
managerial competence and availability of adequately
experienced and skilled managers and Board members, including
definition of job objectives, performance assessment system;
identify managerial reinforcement measures (new managers,
replacements, managerial assistance, training, etc.)
the appropriate economic role and alternative corporate forms
e.g. public, private, joint venture, lease management that
might best maximize economic and financial returns to the
country;
strategic and corporate planning, investment programming and
financial management methods and systems;
financial status of the enterprise, including balance sheet,
income statement and derived ratios and the status of
accounting, consumer billing and collection;
operational aspects, covering organization structure,
management information systems, decision-making bodies, roles



- 39 -
ANNEX V
Page 2 of 3
and responsibilities of senior management and the Boards of
Directors;
marketing performance and capabilities (product/service.
design and quality, pricing, promotion, etc.)
product or service marketing, sales and distribution;
personnel requirements and related training, development
needs, remuneration levels and other incentives;
product or service costs and pricing considerations,
*                           including the impact of Government price controls and other
regulations covering product marketing and distribution;
impact of the external policy and legislative environment on
enterprise performance and financial viability.
Reporting
2. First phase reports will document the present status and performance of
the enterprise, plus analysis of the most appropriate economic and financial
forms of ownership, and will outline concise recommendations for
restructuring where required, and for performance improvement generally,
enabling the Government and IDA to review and reach agreement on the
direction of improvement plans. Once agreement is reached, the consultants
will prepare a detailed implementation plan with budgets, sequen- and
timetable for improvements, and required changes in the external policy
environment and other requirements, including managerial changes, technical
assistance, human resource development and so on. The Government would then
seek, with IDA assistance if requested, financing for the agreed enterprise
improvement plans.
Enterprises to be Studied
3. During the course of recent interactions between IDA and the Govern-
ment, the following criteria and possible conforming enterprises have been
put forward for further discussion, refinement and agreement during the
course of project appraisal (Hay 9-18) and, ultimately, for presentation and
agreement at project negotiations now planned for August/September 1988.
A. Suggested Criteria
(i)            The enterprises' performance is key to sustained economic
recovery, either through performing a critical administrative
or economic management function, or by providing vital
services or products to sustain economic recovery;
(ii)           The enterprises, through their present inefficiency, are
currently consuming significant amounts of scarce local



- 40 -
ANNEX V
Page 3 of 3
currency resources or foreign exchange, and financial
autonomy is both desirable and achievable.
B. Possible Enterprises for Diagnostic Study
- Coffee Marketing Board
- Bank of Uganda
- Uganda Electricity Board
- Uganda Commercial Bank
- Development Bank of Uganda
- Uganda Railways (under IDA Transport Project)
- Uganda Post and Telecommunications (under IDA Telecomms. Project)
- Produce Marketing Board
- Uganda Airlines
- National Wate- and Sewage Corporation
- NYTIL
- Lint Marketing Board



- 41 -
ANNEX VI
DIAGRAMMATIC REPRESENTATION OF
PROJECT-RELATED DECISION MAKING
ANM UP IDA ASSISTANCE
PRESIDENT
T_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
ASINI  AND PRESIDENT'S                 Attney
ECONOMIC ADVISORY COUNCIL              IGen.ral       -t *   Divestitur$
Imp aentation
Sictoral           -                Minister ot                         Mini str
minister         Peru. Sec.          Finance         Perm. Sec.        Industry A
*   Co-op.s           EPD                              MEPD             Technology               C
Miarkoting                                                                               'MEPer.  o.
I    T       q     1                S%  I  to                                               ME 
Per. Sec.  _-   Policy         --    Treasury  _    Policy         --   Pe. Sec
Review                             Review                                Policy Review
Working                            Working                      - -      Working Group
Group       ---   Hoed Of          Group                                 Divestiture
X                  |  SCD    |                       { ~~~~~UDC       PIES |
Parasotatl  |-                                                          R        
Manager                                SCD
IDA
Long-Term Technical
Assistance
FUNCTIONS:
lag00nostte       Lrview of        Lstor policy    -Review of          -Industrial           Divestiture
study and          policy and       reform and        poliey and       parastatal            Implementation
l plan for tho                                                           rostructurtng
enterprise                          Di vestiture                                            -ajor
concerned                          services                             ndustri al          divestiture
Interprise          Implemontation
l-Dagnostic                          divestitur| decisions
| Key:                       |      ustudios,                          a liquidation
supervision
I          ;flow of IDA resoureoel   Ia-nagement
Flo|ofD               |   -PEP Projout                          audits,
Consultation and            management £                        management
- - - participaten. w/out         ceoordination                        technology
authority twdecide                                              contracts
I  a.1iR ecoendations              monitoring                           ?countIng,
I  aecounting                       legal
|   __,Formal ITne authority       services                           planning
0volationship                                                   support



- 42 -                                          ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 3
U- PlNu ENTEPRPISCS PROJMET
IaIERtImE   tUROLE fr  lllPl    ATIOI ff DIESTITURE ARD O   IDRo PTuIO  PiOSRM
C"ll STEP!S
for UWIIUIIIO N IUEStITURE    - 8                         -           ' --90-9   ---- 91--   ----   - 92-9;
-  Posble Clendb: Stwt Jan, 1989 J f n  R N  J J                       R              n 0  NIl J   f  N R     I   A S 0N  0 J  f n  R M  1   i R  S 0 I  0
-ElaudlineeSchdule            1 2 3    56 78  91011 121316116171819Z0Z122232 Z2562?28293031 323331S36
Schedule in Nonths ----)  (   ' one month)
Initial C Ymn Selection I Rnaysis
Proritiation of Selected Conas
Updating Rccmts 
SettlUat of ked Issues
Settluet of Fincal Ies 
Procrant  se for Nerdot Bankers 
Contract Nek tittton                                         -
fieldwok in Rlocks for 6roups of Ctownies                                       .....
Decision to liquidate or diest                                            'a""          -
RCTIONS RRE REPERTED fOR ERRC BLOCa Of C"PRfNIES
If Liquidation                                                                                UlIIDRTD
iA      t on liqdation method                                                   if
Rppointast of liquidetws                                                                               "
Coopsany ClosueiS                                                                                        1                   f
inal In tory 
Rdvtise invtory for ale 
Sale of Assets/Ive      
Clculate net pree
If oiwstitute                                                                   ACTIONS RRE fPRTED fOR ERCH BLOC  Of CONPAHIES
DOIUESTED OVER A TUD-ITE  YEAR PERIOD
Apesnt em    Divestite Ithe                        I                                                 -
Final Rtrating                                                                               
Physicl re-wgisatino                                 *, *u 
Oetermination of Price                                                             Na...H               H.H41,u               _ *
Development of Prsectus             ;                                     -           a       .            a
Decde on Oidnbtion flethi 
AdvertiuingiSewch for Byst
If Prnvte ale
Buyr insectieon             . '...a
egotiation t
If Shre sle
Rcceptance perid for shaer offers                                                               "
Calculate net procee
Shares                                                                                         a  shares a
OiIers                                                                                                          " inAer '
_ ....................................... _ ........ __ ..................._ .__ ... _. __ ...._.- -- ....†



_43-                                              ANNEX VII
U. IIC a  mEllPESES R                                                                                          Page 2 of 3
I Rl9TIUE T RIILE f0R I11T1Rtl01  Or PIES RHO UOC CWNTS
,98-1- ~89                       --                        -           --9 O  -   -91 94 -
- Powble Calendr: StWtJan. 1989            O II        r mt An      J i R S 0 N O J r n a n i J R S O.N   O
-ElapsWdlineSchdule                1 2 3      5 6 7?8  91011 121314 1S161718192021 22232i2S26  l7
PIES RUN C                                               Schedule in llonths   >      (O     one aonth)
R: SWI116 U  LOIlSTICS
RdAsors I Countrprt Staff Rppointed          O)M))...
;  dqipaet aid Suppies Procared
Lepl Consultits Procured (LCD)
I  '                  8JT. Ilt ROtS
Cpuep   su lected  areed with I0R
TR/lOI I  hwrtlist agr e6 sent out
Consultants Selected
Contract Negptated aid WA  Started                            -
fiel&wtk.   I prepration of Perfornac  Contracts 
C: IItO Jf4ITEWOIU6Y COIIRCIS
Identification of Potentid Contwactor                                 --
6rou I: (2-3 contc    sught)
101 I shrtlist aree  II set out
Conutats Sdected
ontct  eptiatd and Mr Started                                 tM)) ..... (contracts last 2-3 yers)
Wmup I: (2-3 contrctor soug
IW     I I sherUlst aped sont out
Consltants Selet
Cct  legtad  d Uwk Started                                                                            M )))).. (contracts last 2-3 yws)
___



44 -                                        ANNEX VII
Page 3 of 3
UO     PUC ENTEIRISES PROJECT
INOICRIIUE TIMETABLE ro IrlIIP NTRTION Or STRTUTUORY CORPORATIONS OIUISION (SCO) CWIPONENTS
-- 88}1                89                   -------------- ---
- PosibleCalena: StartJan, 1989   0 N O J  r n R m J  l R S O  N O J  r m R 1 J J  R S 0 N O J  r n  R n J
-Elapsed Tin Schedule          1 2 3 i 5 6 7 9  91011 1213 1 1S16171819 20 21 22 23 Z: 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33
STRTUTORY CORPTIOlNS DIUISION                         Schedule in Nonthi -----)  (   * one month)
R: STNr' RHO LOGISTICS
Advisors I CounterpWrt Staff Rppointed -
Equionent and Supplies Procured
9. SECTOR RIIINISTRATIUE RErORA AND PLRNNING STUDY (SRARPS)
TOMA0I I   sotlist agreed I sent cot
Conultants Selected
Contract Negtiated and Uork Started
Phase I: Initial Recoaendations                                 -
Revies Procedure: 6owrment I IOR
PropoWl to PEE/Cabinet I Ogreetent
Phse II: bjpisientation Planning and final Report 
Phse III: Irplentation                                                                                }))))..(ow  a 2-3 VW  period)
C. fIlRIIUR  ONItOTIN  RUO CONTROL
Part 1: rinancil Repting Syste
Coneptual Design of deporting System
degn of Cnuternsed Om  I Reports
Initial Trials 
fully Opeatiol Reporting Syst                                            O))).)) O).
Part II: Esiuiment of Rccoting Stand"d
tOLADI I Shortlist  gree and  set out
Consltants Evaluated * Selectedt
nct Negotiated and Start of Vork          .
fieldwork and Draft recindietions                                   r          h
Reviu of Standards (So6emnt I IOR) 
Suimission to/Approval Cabinet/PEC
Inplentation bgins                                                                                 )))))))))).(ouer 2-3 years)
0. DIRANOStIC STUDIES Of N3OR PRiSTAtRS
Parastatals for Study Agreed vith IOR        s tlist of at least 6 to beagreed at negotiations AugVSept, 1988
TO140I I Shortlist Agreedand sent out
Consultants Evluated & Selected 
Contract legotiated and Strt of Uork
6roup 1 Diagnostics: (three in each group)
fieldrk and Recmendations
Revnev Phaue                                                                        I..-.
Subnision to/ApproWvl by PEC/Cabinet                                                            *
Inprwoent Plan Implementation Design
Inplelentation of Inprovetent Plan(if funded)
Group 2 Diagntics: (three in each group)
fieldyiork and Recaendations
Review Phase
Subission toproval by PEC/Cabinet
nlprovent Plan Inplientation Design 
IpIsientation of Improvement Plan (if fuWnde)
__._~~~~~~~~~~-   -...................... .... - ----   .. -----  .     .  ..  .....- ----------.....__............



- 45 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
PUBLIC SECTOR ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM AND PLANNING STUDY (SARAPS)
1. As part of the proposed IDA Public SeLtor Enterprises Project,
provision has been made to finance a comprehensive study of the entire
public enterprise sector. The study has the following objectives:
i)        Sector Policy:  prepare for discussion a policy paper and
guidelines for the future participation of Government in commer-
cially oriented enterprises and;
ii)      Institutional Arrangements:  define institutional arrangements,
policies and procedures for efficient Government administration of
the public enterprise sector;
iii)      Action Program:  prepare an action program for rehabilitation and
performance improvement and, where desirable, divestiture or
liquidation, for all remaining public enterprises, taking into
account already committed plans and actions concerning industrial
and other parastatals.
2. Specific tasks to be undertaken by the consultant in line with these
objectives are as follows:
A.   Action Program (to be integrated with diagnostic studies)
(i)            make an inventory of all public enterprises, describing their
operating status, and existing plans and actions regarding
rehabilitation, technical assistance, divestiture or
liquidation, and make a preliminary review of the enterprise
cross debt situation;
(ii)           categorize in line with agreed criteria, PEs not already
being subjected to Government-sponsored action plans, in
terms of those requiring and justifying attention in the
short, medium or long term, or no action at all;
(iii)          specify for the short and medium term action candidates, key
problems and consequences, and the nature of required
actions and interventions at the enterprise and sector level,
including required action to further define and address any
cross indebtedness;



- 46 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of '
(iv)           prepare terms of reference and a scope of work for enterpri-
ses requiring and justifying immediate attention (i.e. those
categorized as justifying action in the short term);
(v)            define an action program and timetable for the proposed
studies and interventions for the short and medium term
categories, and specify likely associated costs and other
resource requirements to deliver the action program.
B. Policy Guidelines
(i)            review the policy environment for PE's, formal and defacto,
including the legislative framework for public enterprises;
(ii)           prepare for discussion a policy framework paper for the
public enterprise sector addressing, inter alia, the
following policy dimensions and constraints:
desired extent of Government participation in the
economy through ownership of commercially-oriented
enterprises considering economic efficiency and
Government's socio-political perspective;
Government financial resource constraints;
Government human resource constraints;
state of economic development and Government
priorities for social and economic development.
(iii)          identify deficiencies in the legal framework and the nature
of desired reforms in the legal and regulatory environment
taking into account proposals for institutional reform (see
section C) and covering inter alia:
the role, function and composition of boards of
directors;
-         appointment of directors and board chairmen;
reporting obligations and performance monitoring;
financial obligations, dividend policies, financing
rights and restrictions.
(iv)           prepare a detailed terms of reference and scope of work for
drafting required legislation and regulations;



- 47 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 3 of 3
(v)          review and recommend required reforms in sector wage and
salary policy and incentive and reward systems, including the
role of boards in administering such policies.
C. Institutional Arrangements
(i)            review and describe existing institutional structures and
arrangements for PE sector administration, formal and
defacto, economic sector by sector (Ministry by Ministry);
(ii)           propose an administrative structure and proczdures for
performance monitoring and evaluation emphasizing economic
efficiency, institutional simplicity, and enterprise autonomy
consistent with the appropriate ownership role of Government;
(iii)          review and describe present human resource availability and
needs for sector administration and define short term
technical assistance needs and a human resource development
plan for meeting these needs with Ugandans as soon as
feasible;
(iv)           taking into account the present operations and charter of the
Uganda Development Corporation (UDC) review and make
proposals as to how the Government can most effectively
fulfill the industrial promotion function and requirements
for equity financing and venture capital to encourage the
establishment of new industrial enterprises, indicating
staffing and skill training requirements and other implica-
tions of proposals advanced for discussion.
Reportina and Timetable
3. The study would be completed and presented in final form within 12
months from the date of contract signature and would proceed in three
t        phasess inception, draft final, and final report. The inception report would
propose for review the criteria to be applied in classifying enterprises for
review and intervention, and would describe the existing public enterprise
sector a terms of enterprises, status and ongoing or committed action
plans, legislative and regulatory framework, reporting practices etc.



- 48 -
ANNEX IX
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE
STATUTORY CORPORATIONS DIVISION, MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Objectives
1. Under the proposed project, the Statutory Corporations Division (SCD)
located in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) will be strengthened through the
provision of technical assistance in the form of a resident Chief Technical
Advisor and a Financial Analyst/Accountant. Provision will also be made for
specialized consultant services and for equipment and materials, including
vehicles, computer hardware and software, office equipment, overseas
fellowships, travel and related expenses. The three distinct roles of the
SCD during the project period will be:
(i)            project management for the Public Enterprises Project;
(ii)           design and implementation of uniform accounting standards for
the public enterprise sector;
(ill)          design and implementation of financial and performance
monitoring and controls for all public enterprises consistent
with revised accounting standards.
Specific Functions
2. A. Project Management for the Public Enterprises Project (PEP)
The SCD will fulfill the role of project management for the PEP.
Specific functions, duties and responsibilities will be:
(i)            procurement of consultant services financed under the
proposed project in accordance with IDA guidelines;
(ii)           procurement of materials and equipment financed under the
proposed project in accordance with IDA guidelines;
(iii)          payments as agreed between IDA and the Government for local
staff working in the project under various agencies;
(iv)           assistance to expatriate personnel to appropriately locate in
country eg housing, transport, resident status etc.
(v)            establishment and administration of special accounts,
disbursement management and accounting, and establishment of



- 49 -
ANNEX IX
Page 2 of 3
reporting arrangements from other project implementing units
and from the SCD quarterly to IDA on project performance
against targets and objectives;
(vi)           co-ordination of the overall project work program in terms of
the various agreed components to be carried out by the PIES,
UDC, and the SCD itself;
(vii)          overall responsibility for all aspects of the sector
administrative reform and planning study (SARAPS) that will
t                          define and recomuend, inter alias comprehensive program of
public sector review and reform; effective institutional
arrangements and procedures for monitoring and evaluating
retained parastatals, including financial, managerial and
operational aspects;
(viii)         overall responsibility for major diagnostic studies which
will be undertaken for about six key parastatals largely
outside of the industrial sector and which will define
improvement plans and required financial and human resources
for their implementation.
B.        Financial Standards and Performance Reporting, Monitoring and
Control
(a)       The SCD, in collaboration with PIES, will be responsible for
managing a contracted study which will analyze current financial
accounting standards, and performance reporting procedures by
parastatals that are to be retained in the sector, in terms of
accounting consistency, reporting frequency, and detail, with a
view to:
(i)            agreeing with parastatals and sector Ministries on the
appropriate standards and content, format and frequency
of financial and performance reporting and then;
(ii)           designing and introducing to parastatals and ministries
the required formats, thus enabling;
(iii)          development within SCD of a data bank on financial,
operational and managerial performance so that;
(iv)           national budgets explicitly reflect appropriate levels
of support for parastatals, and such disbursements and
the resulting activity can be accurately monitored and
evaluated.
(b)       Monitoring and reporting will, inter alia, include the following
items:



- 50 -
ANNEX IX
Page 3 of 3
(i)            audited accounts;
(ii)           comprehensive register of parastatal loans guaranteed by
Government and updated quarterly, by principal interest
and age;
(iii)          tentative budgets and plans covering capital require-
ments, investment plans and projected balance sheets by
parastatal;
(iv)           amounts budgeted and disbursed, whether subsidy, equity
or debt, by parastatal;
(v)            payment of dividends by parastatal.
(c)       The SCD will liaise with the Auditor General to ensure that the
study it has adequately taken into account:
(i)            current statutory requirements for financial reporting;
(ii)           current prescribed standards for financial reporting;r
(iii)          capacity of the Auditor General's department to perform
audit functions on behalf of the Goivernment in respect
to its ownership role, and will;
(iv)           prepare and report to the Auditor General remedial
actions that need to be taken, legislative or opera-
tional, including the role of private auditors, that
will improve the clarity and accuracy of parastatal
accounts and the effectiveness of the Government's
overall audit function in this sector.
Introduction and use of such reporting mechanisms will further facilitate
Government's ownership role in terms of appropriate overall resource
allocation to the parastatal sector, consistent with the objective of
increased sector efficiency and effect.veness. Training will be required of
SCD and other concerned agency staff to facilitate implementation of agreed
procedures.



- 51 -
ANNEX X
Page 1 of 2
Uganda: IDA Publlc Enterprises Project
Uganda: Public Enterprise Project
SuLary of Costs with Contingmnces Included In each Item
M i i Ion Shi Ilrigs   Milllon US Oollars
L    F    T            L    F    T
Ministry of Irdustry
Public Industrial Enterprise Secret 278  968  1247       0.74 2.91  3.65
Uganda Developiwit CorporatIon     168  662  830         0.50 2.14  2.64
Sub-Total                446  1630 2076        1.24 5.05 6.29
Ministry of Finance
Statutory Corporatloms Olvision 0   94  680  774        0.27 2.12 2.39
Sector Adinistration Reform Study  24  10B  130         0.11  0.50 0.61
Diagstic Studies                  107  994  1101        0.49 3.01  3.50
Project Mnaguugnt Assistance       58   40   98         0.18  0.19 0.36
Sub-Totai                189 1140  1329        0.77 3.70 4.47
Enterprlse Rehab'n & Divestiture
hrngeamnt Aulits & Contracts      879  942  1821        2.37 2.60 4.97
Divestiture Services                0  333  333         0.00  1.00  1.00
Sb-Total                 879  1275 2154        2.37 3.60 5.97
Total Project Cost (Excl.Ditles&Taxes) 1609 4725 6334       4.65 14.47 19.11
D.Otles and Taxes                     66    0   68          0.23 0.00 0.23
Total (Includilng.Ditles/Taxes)      1675 4725 6400         4.88 14.47 19.35



- 52 -
ANNEX X
Page 2 of 2
Uganda: IDA Public Enterprises Project
Ug2nda: PubIlic Enterprise Project
Suuary of Costs with Contingencies shown separately
Millon Shillings     Million US Dollars
L    F    T            L    F    T
Milnistry of Industry
Pubilc Industrial Enterprise Secret 244  863  1107        0.66 2.61  3.27
Uganda Oselomont Corporation        149  594  742         0.45  1.93 2.38
Sib-Total                393 1457  1849        1.11  4.54 5.65
Milnistry of Finance
Statutory Corporatlon Dvislion 0   83  808  691          0.24  1.91  2.15
Soetor Administratlon Reform Study  22   98  120         0.10 0.48  0.56
Dlapiostic Stulies                 104  931  1035        0.48, 2.84  3.31
Project Managment Assistance        52   37   88         0.16 0.18 0.33
Sub-Total                177 1066  1244        0.73 3.48 4.21
Enterprise Rehabn & Divestiture
lilaagmet Audits & Contracts       810  871  1681        2.20 2.43 4.63
Divestiture Services                 0  312  312         0.00 0.94 0.94
Sub-TotaI                810  1183  1993       2.20 3.37 5.57
Total Base Cost                        1462 4314 5776          4.3  13.3  17.6
Contingmncles
Piysical                               27  110  137         0.08 0.35 0.43
Price                                 119  301  .40         0.29 0.81 .1.10
Total (exclDIAt/Tax)                   1609 4725 6334         4.65 14.47 19.11
Dutles and Taxes                       66    0   66         0.23 0.00 0.23
Total (Incl.Dut/Tax)                   1675 4725 6400         4.88 14.47 19.35



- 53 -
ANNEX XI
UGANDA PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal           Semester     Semester          Cumulative      Z of
Year Semester         Ending    Disbursements      Disbursements    Total
89-2                 6/30/89        0.30                0.30          2
90-1                 12/31189       0.60                0.90          6
90-2                 6/30/90        1.35                2.25         14
91-1                 12/31/90       0.90                3.15         21
91-2                 6/30/91        1.20                4.35         29
92-1                 12/31/91       1.35                5.70         38
92-2                 6/30/92        1.65                7.35         49
93-1                 12/31/92       1.35                8.70         58
93-2                 6/30/93        1.50               10.20         68
94-1                 12/31/93       1.50               11.70          7B
94-2                 6/30/94        0.90               12.60         84
95-1                 12/31/94       2.40               15.00        100
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 54 -
ANNEX XII
UGANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
Staffing Plar.s
for
Public Industrial Enterprise Secretariat (PIES)
Ministry of Industry and Technology
and
Statutory Corporations Division (SCD), Ministry of Finance
At project negotiation, the following staffing plans for PIES and SCD were
presented to and accepted by the Association. The following are the agreed
staffing plans:
A.    Public Industrial Enterprises Secretariat
National Staff                 Technical Assistance
Director of PIES               Chief Technical Advisor
Financial Analyst              Financial Analyst
Industrial Engineer            Industrial Engineer
Legal Expert
Human Resources Officer
Information Technology Specialist
Trainees (upto 4)
B.    Statutory Corporations Division
National Staff                 Technical Assistance
Head of SCD                    Financial Analyst
Project Manager                Public Enterprise Specialist
Financial Analyst              (one of the above to be named Chief          4
Accountants (2)                Technical Advisor)
Information Technology Specialist
Trainees (2)                  -        -- .   -
In addition, it is understood that the UDC will assign one trainee each to the
Chief Financial and Chief Operating Officer to be financed under the project.



- 55 -
ANNEX XIII
UGMAND
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
TEM   OF REFERENCE
DIVESTITURE DePLEMENTATION COMMITTEE
1.    Composition and Membership:  The Divestiture Implementation Committee
(DIC) shall have a core membership of the Ministers of Finance, Industry and
Technology, and Justice/Attorney General. Other Ministers may be co-opted from
time to time when divestiture proceedings concern enterprises within their
portfolio.
2.    Powers and Responsibilitiess  The DIC will be empowered to give
directions, review, monitor and make decisions on all aspects of the agreed
divestiture program and attendant processes. Specifically, the Committee will:
(i)   review the findings and recommendations of the consultants for the
Divestiture Design Study;
(ii)  provide guidance to the SCD in setting up working groups for
detailed review of consultant recommendations and preparation of
reports and submissions to higher level authorities for decision-
making;
(iii) approve draft and final consultant reports for presentation
through the Minister of Finance to the PEC and Cabinet in support
of working groups reports and submissions;
(iv)  prepare specific programs for implementing divestiture policy,
institutional and legislative reform, and financial market and
*                      other transactions;
(v)   decide upon enterprise specific measures recommended by
consultants which cannot be decided upon by the Minister of
Industry and technology alone;
(vi)  develop a publicity campaign to acquaint and inform the public and
business of the objectives and rationale for the divestiture
program;
(vii) be responsible and accountable on behalf of the Government for
divestiture progress and performance.
3.    The DIC will utilize the PIES as its secretariat, which in turn will
liaise closely with SCD, and with UDC to ensure the development of appropriate
items for agenda consideration and efective transmittal of committee decisions
and directives.



