Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15600
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
(Credit 1962-UG)
April 30, 1996
Public and Private Enterprise Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling
US$1.0 = Ush 1,000 (1995)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
DIC        Divestiture Implementation Committee
DRIC       Divestiture and Restructuring linplementation Committee
DS         Divestiture Secretariat
EDP        Enterprise Development Project
IDA        International Development Association
PEP        Public Enterprises Project
PERD       Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture
PERDS      Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Secretariat
PIES       Public Industrial Enterprise Secretariat
PMU        Parastatal Monitoring Unit
PU         Privatization Unit
SARAP      Sector Administrative Reform and Planning Study
SCD        Statutory Corporations Division
UDC        Uganda Development Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PREFACE
SUMMARY
Background .........................................                                                (i)
Evaluation of Objectives ......................................... (i)
Achievement of Objectives ......................................... (i)
Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................                    ....................... (ii)
Project Sustainability ......................................... (ii)
Bank's and Borrower's Performances .........................................                       (ii)
Assessment of Outcome .........................................                                    (ii)
Future Operations, Findings and Key Lessons Learned .......................... (iii)
A.       Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ..........................................1
B.       Achievement of Objectives ..........................................3
C.       Major Factors Affecting the Project ..........................................5
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control ......................5
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control .............................6
D.       Project Sustainability ..........................................6
E.    Bank Performance ..........................................7
F.       Borrower Perfonnance ..........................................8
G.       Assessment of Outcome ..........................................8
H.    Future Operation ..........................................9
I.       Key Lessons Learned .........................................                                       10
STATISTICAL APPENDICES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Future Project Operation
Table 6:        Project Costs
Table 6a:  Project Financing
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 8a:  Staff Inputs for Supervision in 1994 and 1995
Table 9:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
AIDE MEMOIRE



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES PROJECT (C1962)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Enterprises
Project in Uganda for which Credit 1962-UG in the amount of SDR11.70 million
(US$15 million at the prevailing exchange rate) was approved on November 8, 1988
and made effective on May 11, 1989.
The credit was closed on May 31, 1995, the original closing date. Final
disbursement took place on August 15, 1995, at which time a balance of US$2.5 million
was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Gerard Byam (AF2PE) and reviewed by Luciano Borin
(Acting Division Chief, AF2PE) and Surendra Agarwal (Project Adviser, AF2DR). The
preparation of the ICR benefited from a project completion mission in February, 1996,
and a simultaneous supervision mission of the Enterprise Development Project (the
follow-on project to PEP) consisting of Stefano Migliorisi and Marie Sheppard of
AF2PE. The ICR also is based on material in the project file. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of this ICR by rendering professional assistance to the
ICR Mission and contributing views reflected in the mission's aide-memoire. The
Borrower has not provided specific comments on the ICR.
It is important to note that the main objective of the Public Enterprises Project
(PEP) was to prepare a program of parastatal reform and divestiture. Hence, in the ICR,
"project" refers to PEP and "program" refers to the overall parastatal reform program
which was prepared during the project's implementation.






SUlMMARY
1. Background. Uganda's public sector in 1987, like the rest of the economy, was
decimated by years of political instability and economic decline. The public enterprise
sector suffered from a loss of managerial and technical staff, equipment shortages, and
the destruction of buildings and records and had become a significant financial burden
on the Government. The Public Enterprises Project (US$ 15 million) was approved by
IDA's Board on November 8, 1988 and closed on May 31, 1995. The objective of the
credit was to strengthen the Government's capacity to sustain economic recovery by
increasing productivity and output and reducing financial losses in public enterprises.
The project's components aimed to: (1) define a program of divestiture and liquidation
of industrial public enterprises; (2) prepare and implement a program of targeted
management and technology service assistance to retained industrial enterprises; (3)
define a longer-term  policy, legislative and administrative  framework for the
management of the public enterprise sector.
2.  Evaluation of Objectives. The project's objectives were appropriate given the
state of the country's devastated economy in 1988 and the desire to quickly restore
Uganda's productive capacity while difficult policy reforms were being implemented.
However, the rehabilitation - as opposed to the divestiture - of the most commercially
promising and economically sound public enterprises became the dominant objective of
the project. This led to an increase in the complexity of the reform program, and made
the imposition of a hard budget constraint very difficult to implement. With hindsight, a
more appropriate objective would have been formulation of a strategy to: (1) select and
restructure a limited number of strategic enterprises that would be retained in the public
sector, (2) impose and enforce a hard budget constraint with special emphasis on
restricting parastatals' access to credit from the Government owned Uganda
Commercial Bank, and (3) create the incentives for private investors to finance the
rehabilitation of the country's productive capacity.
3.  Achievement of Objectives.  Sector policy and institutional development
objectives were partially achieved. The project supported the preparation of a Sector
Administrative Reform and Planning Study (SARAP) and a Divestiture Design Study
(DDS). These studies were completed in 1990 and were used to formulate the
Government's policy for PE reform and an action plan for reform and divestiture
(APPERD). In the area of legal reform, the institutional framework, policies and
principles guiding the reform and divestiture program were eventually embodied in the
Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture (PERD) Statute which was passed by
Parliament in October, 1993. However, overall sector administration and management
of public enterprises remained weak and uncoordinated throughout the life of the
project.



.i
4. Major Factors Affecting the Project. The project suffered from a lack of
coordination and cooperation between Government ministries, an overly complex
follow-on project - the Enterprise Development Project - which overlapped with PEP
both in terms of timing and content, and the late release of counterpart funds. Also, the
divestiture program was designed at a time when the financial capacity of Uganda's
private sector was very limited. This proved to be a major constraint to the program's
implementation since, in the absence of a well thought out public information
campaign, the program was increasingly viewed as a hand-out to foreigners. Relatedly,
Parliamentary opposition to the program led to substantial delays in project
implementation.
5. Project Sustainability. The project's sustainability is measured ultimately by the
sustainability of the parastatal reform program. The program as originally designed was
not sustainable. There was insufficient attention paid to broadening local ownership of
the program, and too much emphasis was placed on restructuring enterprises as opposed
to consideration of their sale or liquidation. Moreover, an evaluation of the program in
1994 projected that as many as 83 enterprises will still be fully or partially owned by
the State by 1999 when the program is scheduled to finish, and an additional 50
parastatals were not even included in the work program. The restructuring of the
reform and divestiture program in early 1995 addressed these issues. However, it is too
early to tell whether the overall program is now sustainable.
6.  Bank's and Borrower's Performances.  The project was prepared in the
aftermath of substantial tunnoil and instability. It was designed to be flexible and
responsive to emerging policy issues, and was viewed as necessary for broadening the
constituency for reform. Therefore, given the circumstances, the performances of the
Bank and the Borrower during preparation were marginally satisfactory even though the
arrangements for project management were inadequate.
7.  Project management by the Borrower and supervision by the Bank were less than
satisfactory. The former was weak. This contributed to a blurring of the distinction
between management and supervision, and undermined local ownership of the program.
8. Assessment of Outcome. The assessment of the project's outcome is complicated
by the substantial degree of overlap with the ongoing Enterprise Development Project
However, measured against the project's main objective of defining and preparing a
program of parastatal reform and divestiture, the project's outcome is assessed as
unsatisfactory. Specific policies on employee retrenchment, the broadening of share
ownership, and the assumption of the debt of parastatals by the Government were not
formulated.  The institutional framework did not adequately address issues of
transparency in the selection of public enterprises for divestiture and the evaluation of



ill
bids. These issues, which contributed to the slow pace of reform, were addressed as
part of the restructuring of the overall program and EDP.
9. Future Operations, Findings and Key Lessons Learned. In January 1995, the
President of Uganda issued a directive which became the basis for the comprehensive
restructuring of the parastatal reform and divestiture program. Among other things, the
directive vested the shares of all public enterprises earmarked for divestiture in the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and established a target of divesting 85%
of all parastatals by the end of 1997. The restructured reform program is supported by
EDP.  Specifically, EDP is financing technical assistance for strengthening the
management of the program, and technical assistance for a public relations campaign
aimed at deepening ownership of the program as well as for formulating specific
policies on other issues such as employee retrenchment.
10. The project's experience reinforced the need for better coordination of the Bank's
country assistance strategy. The project's emphasis on restructuring parastatals was at
odds with the objective of parallel adjustment programs which aimed to impose hard
budget constraints on the operations of parastatals. Also, the approval of the complex
EDP three years prior to the planned closing of PEP, created substantial confusion.
11. PEP's experience also highlights the importance of listening to the Borrower and
understanding and responding to the Borrower's concerns during supervision. An
underlying objective of the credit was to strengthen political support for parastatal
reform and divestiture. Instead, there was a period when the Bank's rigidity during
project supervision appeared to undermine the little support that existed.  The
experience also illustrates the importance of the Bank's current emphasis on
stakeholders' analysis in the design of policy reforms.






UGANDA
Public Enterprises Project
Implementation Completion Report
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
1. Background. Uganda's public sector in 1987, like the rest of the economy, was
decimated by years of political instability and economic decline. The public enterprise
sector suffered from a loss of managerial and technical staff, equipment shortages, and
destruction of buildings and records. Public enterprises had become a significant
financial burden on the Government; a reduction of the burden was essential both to the
restoration of the Government's essential functions as well as to overall economic
recovery.
2. The Bank, at the Government's request, supported a two-pronged strategy for
revitalizing the public sector. The strategy entailed: (i) strengthening the capacity of
the Government to rationalize its parastatal sector through a program of rehabilitation,
divestiture and liquidation; and (ii) restoring the essential functions and processes of
Government, starting first with the Ministries of Finance and Planning and Economic
Development.  The strategy aimed to create a foundation for the longer term
development and increased efficiency of Government institutions through civil service
reform and a comprehensive program of public enterprise sector reform. The Public
Enterprises Project (PEP) was the vehicle for the preparation of the enterprise reform
program.
3.  A credit of US$15 million in support of the PEP was approved by IDA's Board on
November 8, 1988 and closed on May 31, 1995. An amount of US$2.5 million was
canceled. The project was meant to be the first of two projects to support the parastatal
restructuring and divestiture program.  The second is the ongoing Enterprise
Development Project (EDP) which was approved by IDA on December 3, 1991. PEP
also was one of several technical assistance credits geared to rebuilding the capacity of
the public sector and aimed at supporting the implementation of the Economic
Recovery Program.
4. Statement of Objectives. PEP's objective, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report,
was to strengthen the Government's capacity to sustain economic recovery by
increasing productivity and output and reducing financial losses in public enterprises.
The specific objectives were to:



2
(i) define and implement reforms of sector policy and the legislative
framework and strengthen sector administration and enterprise management;
(ii) prepare and initiate an overall program of rehabilitation and rationalization
for all public sector enterprises; and
(iii) implement a program of rehabilitation, restructuring, divestiture and
liquidation of selected industrial parastatal enterprises.
5. Evaluation of Objectives. The rehabilitation of the most commercially promising
and economically sound public enterprises became the dominant objective of the
project. This was driven in part by the state of the country's devastated economy in
1988, and the desire to quickly restore Uganda's productive capacity while difficult
policy reforms were being implemented. Effective and efficient public enterprises were
viewed as essential to the recovery effort due to their dominance in agricultural produce
marketing and in manufacturing, transport and financial services. A corolLary was the
perception that there would be limited foreign private interest in providing the equity
investments required to restore the capacity of most enterprises, and that mobilizing
such investments would be a lengthy process.
6. The Government's classification in 1988 of the enterprises to be retained, divested,
or liquidated provided ample evidence of the importance attached to rehabilitation vs
divestiture. Eighty-eight enterprises were classified of which 32 would be fully retained
and another 34 would be majority owned by the Government.  While these lists
included traditionally strategic parastatals such as the utilities and the central bank, they
also included food and beverage companies (including the brewery), hotels, automobile
dealerships, and hardware stores. A major objective of PEP was to assist the
Government with the selection of the most commercially promising of these enterprises
for restructuring. By implication, the least commercially promising enterprises would
be sold or liquidated.
7.  The attempts to identify and then restructure - as opposed to divest - the most
economically viable enterprises increased the complexity of the reform program, and
made the imposition of a hard budget constraint very difficult to implement. The
management of the complex process of restructuring a large number of public
enterprises was beyond the capacity of the country's limited managerial resources.
With hindsight, a more appropriate objective would have been formulation of a strategy
to: (1) select and restructure a limited number of strategic enterprises that would be
retained in the public sector, (2) impose and enforce a hard budget constraint with
special emphasis on restricting parastatals' access to credit from the Government
owned Uganda Commercial Bank, and (3) create the incentives for private investors to
finance the rehabilitation of the country's productive capacity.



3
B. Achievement of Objectives
8.   The Staff Appraisal Report did not include monitorable indicators for the
implementation phase of the restructuring and divestiture program. The expectation
was that measurable outputs would be defined following the diagnostic phase of the
project. Following the completion of the diagnostic studies divestiture targets were
identified. However, successive supervision missions highlighted the need to identify
measurable outputs for the PE rehabilitation component of the program but this was not
done until February 1995 when the Enterprise Development Project was restructured.
9.  Sector Policy Objectives. The project's objective, which was to prepare an
overall program of rehabilitation and rationalization for all public sector enterprises,
was partially achieved.   The project supported the preparation of a Sector
Administrative Reform and Planning Study (SARAP) and a Divestiture Design Study
(DDS). These studies were completed in 1990 and were used to formulate the
Government's policy for PE reform and an action plan for reform and divestiture
(APPERD) which, in its first phase, targeted the divestiture (including) liquidation of 59
PEs and the rehabilitation of 12. The policy for PE reform included guidelines for the
divestiture of public enterprises and the basic principles for the reform of those
enterprises retained in the public sector.  The major policy elements included
introduction of a hard budget constraint, separation of the commercial from the non-
commercial objectives of individual enterprises, the redefinition of the functions of the
boards of directors to provide for greater autonomy, the establishment of independent
and transparent arrangements for the selection of qualified boards of directors and chief
executive officers, and the ensuring of adequate competition for PEs by allowing the
entry of other enterprises into similar activities.
10. Institutional Development Objectives. The project only partially achieved its
institutional development objectives. In the area of legal reform, the institutional
framework, policies and principles guiding the reform and divestiture program were
eventually embodied in the Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture (PERD) Statute
which was passed by Parliament in October, 1993. The statute classified all public
enterprises into five categories: Class I PEs would be filly owned by the state; Class II
would be majority owned; Class Im would be minority owned; Class IV would be fully
private; and Class V  would be liquidated.  The statute also sanctioned the
transformation of the Divestiture Implementation Committee (DIC) to the Divestiture
and Reform Implementation Committee (DRIC). DRIC is a ministerial level committee
established to take all the policy decisions and approve all actions required to
implement the divestiture program.



4
11. Overall sector administration and management of public enterprises remained
weak and uncoordinated throughout the life of the project. Specifically, a major
objective of the project was to clearly defme and to strengthen the roles of the Statutoxy
Corporations Division and the Public Industrial Enterprise Secretariat, while reducing
the role of the Uganda Development Corporation as a holding company for industrial
parastatals.
12. Statutory Corporations Division. Implementation of the reform program was
initially the responsibility of the Statutory Corporations Division (SCD) in the Ministry
of Finance. SCD's routine responsibilities included reviewing and approving annual
requests for budgetary support to public enterprises.  The division was severely
understaffed and procedures for the allocation of funds to PEs were not well-defined.
The credit supported the strengthening of SCD's capacity to design and implement
performance monitoring and controls for all public enterprises consistent with revised
accounting standards. Project management, including the management of SARAP and
the Divestiture Design Study also was the responsibility of SCD.
13. SCD's performance under the project was disappointing. Although the division
successfully managed the implementation of the SARAP and diagnostic studies, its
substantive role was never clarified and it was not successfully strengthened under the
project. In 1991, the Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture Secretariat (PERDS)
was created to coordinate the program and effectively usurped the role of SCD. PERDS
consisted of a coordinator and two secretariats. The Public Enterprise Secretariat (PES)
became the focal point for the development and implementation of PE reform policies
and programs, and the Divestiture Secretariat (DS) became the focal point for the
definition and implementation of the divestiture program.  Finally, the financial
administration of the Government's PE portfolio was transferred to the Uganda
Development Bank (UDB). Overall, these arrangements were not effective and a search
for appropriate arrangements continued until the end of the project.
14. Public Industrial Enterprise Secretariat (PIES). PIES was established in the
Ministry of Industry and Technology to assist in designing and implementing the
restructuring and divestiture program for industrial parastatals. Specifically, PIES was
to identify the most commercially promising industrial enterprises which would then be
subjected to management audits and, subsequently, management and technology
contracts and advisory services. PIES also was to identify the immediate inputs
(including credit requirements) for the selected enterprises. The project financed a
UNIDO contract to strengthen the secretariat. Throughout the project there were
concerns about the coordination of PIES' activities with other key agencies. The
division of responsibilities over the supervision of public enterprises between PIES and
SCD, and then between PIES and PERDS, was always unclear.



5
15. Uganda Development Corporation (UDC). UDC was vested with primary
responsibility for promoting industrial sector development. At the beginning of the
project there were 35 enterprises in UDC's portfolio and high priority was attached to
reducing UDC's role as a holding company. The project envisaged the liquidation,
merger or divestiture of 11 dormant companies in UDC's portfolio, the partial
divestiture of 16 companies, and the full divestiture of another three. The project
provided technical assistance to UDC to enable it to undertake this rationalization
program. The project's objective of reducing UDC's role as a holding company was
substantially achieved as only 4 enterprises, instead of 21 as originally envisaged, are
now left in UDC's portfolio. It is, however, unclear whether this satisfactory outcome
was at all related to the quality of the technical assistance provided under the Project.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
16. Level of private sector development. The divestiture program was designed at a
time when the financial capacity of the domestic private sector was very limited. This
proved to be a major constraint to the program's implementation. In the absence of a
well thought out public information campaign, the program was increasingly viewed as
a hand-out to foreigners. Conversely, the foreign perception of Uganda was that the
country was a bad investment risk. This perception was ameliorated to some extent by
the revision of the Investment Code in 1990 and the concerted efforts to encourage
Asian entrepreneurs to return. However, Uganda's recent history of civil war, the civil
wars in the neighboring countries of Sudan and Rwanda, and the AIDS epidemic all
contributed to the perception of Uganda as a high risk environment. This, in turn, had
the double effect of reducing the demand for enterprises being privatized and of
increasing the costs of the foreign expertise required for rehabilitation.
17. Level of popular support. Parliamentary opposition to the divestiture program
had a substantial impact on the project. Although the Staff Appraisal Report identified
internal political differences regarding the extent of divestiture as a major risk to the
project, this was not taken into account in the final design of the divestiture program.
The program was designed without the participation of Ugandans outside the
Government and without any discussion in Parliament. As a result, Parliament halted
the program for over six months until the PERD Statute was enacted. A more
participatory approach to the program's design would have lengthened the design stage
but would have resulted in the faster implementation of the program. The failure to
broaden share ownership also contributed to the low level of public support for the
program, one of the Government's stated intentions. However, attainment of this
objective was difficult given the absence of a developed capital market.



6
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
18. Lack of Coordination and Cooperation between Government ministries and
agencies. As noted above, the institutional arrangements for managing the reform and
divestiture program were problematic from the start. The relative roles of PERDS,
PIES and, to some extent, UDC, appeared to overlap. The lack of direction and
management of the program was amplified by the dismissal of the PERD Coordinator in
August 1992 and the failure for almost one year to appoint a replacement. During this
period, the chairmanship of the divestiture and reform implementation committee was
transferred from the Minister of Finance to the Prime Minister. Simultaneously, other
ministers began to question some of the elements of the reform program.
19. Complexity of Program and Project Design. EDP, which was to finance the
implementation of the reform program, was approved by IDA in December 1991 and
became effective in September 1992. Hence there was a considerable overlap with PEP
- both in terms of content and implementation period - which was scheduled to close in
May 1995. Very few in the Government understood the linkages and relevance of
EDP's many components and their relationship to PEP (many in the Government had
assumed that PEP ended when EDP was approved).
20. Following the merger of the ministries of Finance and Economic Planning in 1992,
a task force was charged with reviewing EDP and restructuring it if necessary. Partly as
a result, the overall reform program stalled for over one year. Although the internal re-
evaluation was desirable, the need for it raised questions about the initial degree of
Government ownership of both the project as well as the reform program.
21. Lack of counterpart funds. There were substantial delays in the release of
counterpart funds throughout the life of the project. This may have been due, in part, to
the relatively low priority attached to the project during attempts to rationalize the
budget.
D. Project Sustainability
22. The project's sustainability is measured ultimately by the sustainability of the
parastatal reform program. The program as originally designed was not sustainable.
As discussed elsewhere, the institutional arrangements were not properly designed,
there was insufficient attention paid to broadening local ownership of the program, and
there was too much emphasis placed on the restructuring of enterprises versus
consideration of their sale or liquidation.
23. According to an evaluation of the reform and divestiture program in 1994, despite
the Government's intention of imposing a hard budget constraint on public enterprises,



7
the annual average for subsidies (mainly indirect) to PEs amounted to roughly twice the
size of the FY93/94 budget allocation for wages and salaries, five times that for health,
or almost 50% of total government revenues. By October 1994, 37 enterprises,
accounting for only 5% of total employment in all parastatals, had been divested. The
report also noted that the number of days required to complete a divestiture was very
high (759) and, by any measure (total value of bids, average bid value, average number
of bids per PE advertised), bids were declining substantially. The evaluation projected
that, based on current trends, as many as 83 enterprises will still be fully or partially
owned by the State by 1999. Furthermore, an additional 50 parastatals were not
included in the work program and in most cases were not mentioned in the PERD
Statute.
24. The restructuring of the Enterprise Development Project addressed these issues
and should have a positive impact on the overall parastatal reform program. As such, a
final evaluation of the sustainability of the program will have to await the completion of
EDP.
E. Bank Performance
25. The project was identified as one of a series of technical assistance programs
required to assist the Government with the preparation and implementation of its
Economic Recovery Program. PEP was prepared at a time when Uganda had just
emerged out of a period of considerable chaos, the extent of popular support for the
new Government was unclear, and the internal consensus for reform  of public
enterprises was not strong. Hence, the emphasis in PEP's design was on flexibility and
on the ability to respond to emerging policy issues in a changing socio-political
environment. As such, the studies eventually financed under the project were timely
and relevant in Uganda's changing policy environment and were used in the design of
adjustment programs. The flaw in the strategy was that suitable arrangements for
managing the inter-ministerial project were difficult in the absence of an internal
consensus for reform. The risk created by a lack of consensus was identified during
appraisal and was acknowledged in the project's Memorandum of the President.
However, the project was viewed as a necessary mechanism for supporting those within
the Government in favor of the reform effort. In those circumstances, the performance
of the Bank during identification, preparation and appraisal was marginally
satisfactory.
26. With hindsight, project supervision by the Bank was less than satisfactory.
Supervision missions were frequent and were quick to bring to the attention of the
Government the actions required to improve project performance. However, weak
project management led to a blurring of the distinction between project management
and supervision. This resulted in the appearance of project management by the Bank



8
which undermined local ownership of the program. On one occasion when the
Government tried to assert some ownership - through the formation of the task force to
review the reform and divestiture program - the Bank was not responsive. Instead,
Bank staff viewed the task force as a threat to the package of measures and programs
agreed with the Government. The Bank also mistook the Government's concerns about
the complexity of the program's projects (PEP and EDP) for a lack of commitment to
the divestiture program. The Bank responded constructively only toward the end of the
project during the restructuring of EDP.
27. Bank supervision missions of PEP were effectively supervising the preparation of
the reform and divestiture program. As such, the Bank shared responsibility with the
Borrower for the weaknesses in the program's design (see Section G below).
F. Borrower Performance
28. The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. However,
implementation of the project was poor.  The reasons included poor project
management, uncoordinated implementation of project components, and delays in
releasing counterpart funds. Poor project management was evidenced by two qualified
audits (the final audit for 1994\95 is still pending). There is no evidence that project
staff and consultants were regularly evaluated. Finally, project implementation was
hampered by a lack of broad commitment within the Government to the overall
objective of parastatal reform and divestiture.
G. Assessment of Outcome'
29. The assessment of the project's outcome is complicated by the substantial degree
of overlap with the ongoing Enterprise Development Project. On the positive side,
most of the actions required under the project were implemented, and the studies
financed by the project were timely and provided the analyses for fundamental reforms
in a variety of sectors (e.g the diagnostic studies of the Bank of Uganda and UCB
provided some of the analyses for the reform program in the financial sector).
30. Nevertheless, measured against the project's stated objectives, the outcome is
unsatisfactory. The main reason for this assessment stems from the evaluation of the
reform and divestiture program in 1994. The evaluation identified several major
problems. Some of these arose from the implementation of the program while others
arose from inadequate preparation. The latter are directly attributable to the Public
Enterprises Project and are briefly discussed below:
This section relies heavily on the Bank's "Public Enterprise Reform and Divestiture in Uganda:
Program and Project Restructuring" (February, 1995).



9
(a). The absence of centralized responsibility for the ownership and supervision
of public enterprises. This was required, and should have been addressed under
PEP, given the need for the effective imposition of a hard budget constraint.
(b) The absence of specific divestiture policies on employee retrenchment, the
assumption by Government of the debt of parastatals being divested, and the
broadening of share ownership. A strategy to address these issues was especially
important in building public support for the program and should have been an
essential component of a public information campaign.
(c)  Inadequate information on parastatals. The absence of information on
parastatals resulted in numerous disputes on the legal ownership of enterprises
following the completion of the divestiture.  Furthermore, in some cases
information on ownership was erroneous and some enterprises included in the
PERD Statute either did not exist or were privately owned.
(d)   Lack of transparency in all phases of the divestiture process. Specifically,
the selection of enterprises for divestiture and the evaluation of bids were far too
discretionary. For example, enterprises were occasionally added to the divestiture
pipeline at the request of individual members of the Divestiture and Reform
Implementation Committee. Also, bid criteria and evaluation standards were not
clearly defined.
(e)   Use of Divestiture Proceeds. Most of the divestiture proceeds had been
ploughed back into the parastatal sector, usually without an agreement for the
restructuring of the enterprise.
H. Future Operation
31. In January 1995, the President of Uganda issued a directive which became the
basis for the comprehensive restructuring of the parastatal reform and divestiture
program.  The directive dissolved the PERD Secretariat and created instead a
Privatization Unit under the Minister of State for Privatization in the Ministry of
Finance and a Parastatal Monitoring Unit under the Secretary to the Treasury
(subsequently brought under the Minister of State for Privatization). The directive also
vested the shares of all public enterprises earmarked for divestiture in the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Planning. Finally, the Privatization Unit was instructed to
divest "85% of all parastatals" by the end of 1997.
32. The restructured program also emphasizes the importance of adhering to the hard
budget constraint. Under the plan, the Parastatal Monitoring Unit (PMU) would be



10
strengthened to improve its monitoring of parastatals. Equally important, coordination
between the PMU and the Privatization Unit will be enhanced to prevent a softening of
the hard budget constraint during the divestiture process. In the past, there was no
mechanism for tracking the performance of public enterprises once they entered the
divestiture pipeline.
33. The restructured parastatal program is supported by EDP. Specifically, EDP is
financing technical assistance for strengthening the management of the program, and
technical assistance for a public relations campaign aimed at deepening ownership of
the program as well as for formulating specific policies on other issues such as
employee retrenchment.
34. In February 1996, an EDP supervision mission concluded that the restructuring has
resulted in substantial improvements in the management of the reform program as well
as in the performance of technical assistance. There was a significant increase in the
number of divestitures (from 4 in 1994 to 21 in 1995) and considerable progress in
measuring the volume of subsidies to parastatals. However, the mission noted that
improvement in project management was at a cost to the PMU whose staff assumed
many administrative functions. To address this problem, the organizational structure
and administrative functions of the PMU were adjusted. The mission also noted that
the transparency of the divestiture process remained unsatisfactory. As a result, the
Borrower intends to design a transparency rating for major transactions to measure
investor interest, the evaluation method, public opinion and the extent to which
contractual agreements are binding over time.
1. Key Lessons Learned
35. PEP's experience reinforced the need for better coordination of the
implementation of the overall country strategy.  Specifically, the emphasis on
restructuring parastatals was at odds with the objective of parallel adjustment programs
which aimed to impose a hard budget constraint on the operations of public enterprises.
Also, the approval of EDP three years prior to the planned closing of PEP, created
substantial confusion both in and outside the Bank. The respective roles of both
projects were unclear (this issue was raised during EDP's pre-appraisal review meeting
but was never addressed adequately) and, more importantly, the complex design of
EDP had an adverse impact on the implementation of PEP.
36. PEP's experience also highlights the importance of listening to the Borrower, and
understanding and responding to the Borrower's concerns during supervision. An
underlying objective of the credit was to strengthen political support for parastatal
reform and divestiture. Instead, there was a period when the Bank's rigidity during
project supervision appeared to undermine the little support that existed. Supervision



I1
missions were frequent and in most cases raised technical issues requiring immediate
attention. However, the missions' recommendations tended to be "by the book" (i.e
strictly in accordance with the requirements of the credit agreement). More flexibility
in terms of listening and responding to the Borrower's concerns, and a greater
awareness of the changing socio-political environment, would have led to a recognition
of the need to restructure the program much earlier. The experience also illustrates the
importance of the Bank's current emphasis on stakeholders' analysis in the design of
policy reforms.



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial   Partial   Negliible   NotApplicable
(4)         (4)         (4)          (4)
Macro Policies                    O           O         O              4
Sector Policies                   O           4         O             O
Financial objectives              O           O         O              4
Institutional Development         Dl          4         0             0
Physical Objectives               O           O         O              4
Poverty Reduction                 O           E         O             4
Gender Issues                     O           O         O              4
Other Social Objectives           E           O         E              4
Environmental Objectives          E           E         O              4
Public Sector Management          E           E         4             E
Private Sector Development        E           0         4              l0
Other (specify)                   E           O         E             E
Likely          Unlikely    Uncertain
(4)            (4)            (4)
B. Proiect Sustainability                   E               E             4
C. Bank Performance 
Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
Identification                         E                4             E
Preparation Assistance                 E                4             E
Appraisal                              E                4              E
Supervision                            E                E             4
Hfh1w
Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Deficient
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                            E                4             E
Implementation                         E                E             4
Covenant Compliance                    E                4             E
Hi"hly                                      Hjghly
satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory unsatisfactory
E. Assessment of Outcome           O              E                4          0



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit Title        Purpose             ApprovalF        Status
Enterprise       To improve the operating       1991       Ongoing.
Development      environment and generate a               Restructured in
(Credit 2315-UG)  supply response for all                  February 1995.
enterprises



Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification (Executive Project Sumrnary)                     03/27/88
Preparation                                                     04/19/88
Appraisal                                     05/08/88          05/08/88
Negotiations                                    09/88          09/20-23/88
Board presentation                             10/30/88         1 1/08/88
Signing                                   ________12/02/88
Effectiveness                                   0 1/89          05/11 /89
Closing Date                                  05/31/95          05/31/95
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimate and Actual
(USS millions)
Appraisal Estimate Cumulative         0.30      2.25       4.35 J 7.35    10.20        12.60    15.00
Actual Cumulative                     0.53      3.69       6.971   8.02      9.84      11.48    12.52*
ActuaCuultiea%oEsixat               176.7%   164.0%      160.2%j 109.1%    96.5%       91.1%    83.5%
Date of Final Disbursement         August 15 , 1995
* Balance of $2.48 million cancelled



Table 5: Key Indicators for Future Project Operation
DIVESTITURE
Quantity:       Number of enterprises divested and number of employees in
enterprises divested.
Quality:        A transparency rating will be designed to measure (a) investor interest;
(b) evaluation method: (c) public opinion; and (d) the extent to which
contractual agreements are binding over time.
Cost:            Time and cost of completing divestitures.
P.E. REFORM
Quantity        Value Added; reduction of subsidies
Quality         Customer surveys



Table 6: Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ mn)        Actual-Latest Estimate (US$ mn)
Category             Local Cost Foreign Cost   Total  Local Cost Foreign Cost   Total
Equipment, Vehicles, Fumiture, Materials  4.8          1.5      6.3       1.8          1.0      2.8
Training                                 0.0           0.6      0.6       0.0          0.2      0.2
Technical Assistance and Consultants     0.0           9.4      9.4       0.5         10.7     11.2
Unallocated                              0.0           3.0      3.0       0.0          0.0      0.0
TOTAL                                    4.8          14.5     19.3       2.3         11.9     14.2
Table 6A: Proiect Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$mn)         Actual\Latest Estimate (US$mn)
Source              Local Cost Foreign Cost   Total  Local Cost Foreign Cost   Total
Govemment                    4.3           0.0      4.3       1.8          0.0      1.8
IDA                       0.5         14.5     15.0        0.5         11.9     12.4
Total                     4.8          14.5     19.3       2.3         11.9     14.2



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Item Under Dated Covenant     Original Date  Compleion      Comments
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _D a te
(a) Completion of Divestiture Design  12/31/89    03/31/90           -
Study and Implementation
(b) Appointment of National and      05/31/89     03/31/91           -
International Staff
(c) Completion of SARAP Study        11/01/90      11/30/90          -
(d) Adoption of Policy and Structural  03/31/90   03/31/91          -
Framework on PEs suitable to IDA
(e) Completion of Management Audit    03/01/90    03/31/90           -
and enter into performance
contracts
(f) Completion of Diagnostic Studies  12/01/89    01/30/91          -
(g) Submission of audited financial                   -       The 1994/95
statements                                                audit was
completed in
February 1996.
However, to-
date it has not
been officially
transmitted to
IDA.



Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs a/
....... -..      ..........  ,:.. .......-..    .                                                                                               .          .        .      ..-......   .......  ..  . a-.!-  .   :.i  T i.    0- Ql    | T00   7 i:.::.:4.t! At.E
.  . .  . . . . . .  .    . . .  .-- ' l t, g , l   . . ..t-; -L   . .E;0   . .ttL   . . . .   . . . . .   . .                                                                                                                                              . .0  . .   . .t;  .;       . . . ..0 .ii0 0 0 t 0 ;
...a ..-                -      :0             X         : ..:;;t ....  .. .  .- ...  .....Q                                                                                                                                  ..-:lG e b  ...;       0000;:-0M l   0f ]:-::-E
-:  . -f.E.i.. : .. :    :..  :.....   A  tE-    E.-E -EE;.E.E--T  .: ..    ....   .. .   .. .. .   ..    ..-;i-0 .. ..   ..    .                                                                                       .. . .. . .        .   -; -         t  0
..............   to ...                           a    sa ... ...5.1......
..A    .......                ....a.i....al...                                                                                                                                                   ...             2..7 ..
......a               ion .........                         B oar ..r                                a .. .......8.
Supervision..  ...1..2....7.2............... ..............                                                                                                                                                                                                                ......335.....8. ...............     .     .
S 42nE gE S n'.';..                    ..       ...    .                                                  .  ....  ..  ....  ...  ...; ...                                                                      .                       ....        ...
.   . ; ..   .. .   ..   . .   .. e . . .. .   ..   .   . i e . ' .. .              .. .  .  .    . .                                                                                  .         . ..     . .. .     .   . .   . . .  . .  .      . .       . .  . ..      . .
.....ux.............i..s.....on.....                                                            24.      0                           71                      .            2.       0                            77 .. .....  .. ..  .  ..6.. ......



Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
_~~~~~~~~ E
OD 6.30              The Borrower was required to contribute 21% of the project's
Local Cost Financing costs (net of taxes and duties). The Borrower's contribution
and Cost Sharing     eventually amounted to 13% of the project's costs after
cancellation of the undisbursed amounts (to be confirmed after
receipt of final audit). However, there were substantial and
__________ __   regular delays in the release of these funds.
OD 10.60             Audit reports were not received on schedule and, todate (April
Accounting, Financial 10, 1996), the 1995 audit has not been received.
Reporting and
Auditing
OD 13.10
Borrower Compliance
with Audit Covenlants                                                        L



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of      Month/Year  Number of  Weekv   Specialized Staff Skills   implentation 0l DeI n       ypes of Pr obles
Projeat Cycle             Persons    in Field. Rpresented             Status         Objectives                            .  . .....
Through       02/12/88 to   2         2.7
appraisal     03/03/88
Appraisal     05/05/88 to   3         1.2      Public Sector
through Board  05/16/88                        Management Specialist
approval
10/22/89 to                     Public Sector          HS              HS           Lack of a Divestiture
Supervision   11/14/89    2           2        Management Specialist                               Implementation Committee and the
delayed start up at UDC and MOIT.
Senior Operations Officer
11/21/90 to                     Senior Industrial       S              HS           Problems encountered in
12/07/90    2          3.4      Specialist                                          integrating the UNIDO-
implemented component
Public Enterprise Reform                           (strengthening of PIES in the
Specialist                                         Ministry of Industry) with the other
two components (PES, in the
Ministry of Finance; and UDC, in
the Ministry of Industry) of PEP.
04/03-23/91   1         2.7      Public Enterprise Reform   S          S            Coordination and program approval
Specialist                                         mechanisms have not operated (in a
regular manner and oversight
function requires more attention.
Insufficient local funding of the
project has had a negative impact
on the ability of the agencies to
carry out their tasks during the first
.________________________ ___________________________________________ ___________________________   months of 1991.



Performan e Rating
Stage of       Month/Year  Number of  Weeks in  Specialized Staff Skills    Implementation  Development  Types of Problems
Project Cycle               Persons     Field     Represented               Status          Objectives
Supervision
(con 't...)
12/08/91 to   1          .7        PE Reform                 S               HS            Insufficient Local Funding
12/20/91
06/04/93 to   5          2.9       Industrial Specialist     U               U             There has been substantial
06/16/93                                                                                   slippage in achieving agreed
Public Enterprise Reforrn                              targets (no liquidation, only
Specialist                                             three parastatals privatized,
delay in PE reform), and
PSD Specialist                                         backtracking in some cases.
PERD has been without a
substantial coordinator for 10
months. With the unclear
responsibility for the project
implementation, consequent to
the PM becoming the Chairman
of DRIC project program has
been stalled. A Task Force, set
up by the Ministry of Finance
(MOFEP), suggested some
changes to the project. There
also appeared to be dilution of
the earlier political consensus on
privatization/PE reform.



Stage .of      Month/Year  Number of   Weeks in  Specialized StaffSkils     Implemnentation  Development  Types of Problems
Project Cycle               Persons     Field      Represented               Status           Objectives
Supervision
(con't...) 1/
01/27/94 to                         Senior Industry Specialist    S           S
02/03/94     2           .7
03/22/94 to              1.3        Senior Industry Specialist    S           S             Improvement in project
03/31/94     2                                                                              performance with the enactment
PSD Specialist                                          of a Divestiture Bill and the
appointment of a Project
Coordinator.
Completion     02/15/96 to   3          2.3        PSD Specialists           1/               1/
03/01/96
Senior Economist                                   _ .
1/ The last PEP supervision mission was in March, 1994. The EDP mid-term review mission in October 1994 recommended the cancellation of PEP. PEP was
closed on May 31, 1995.
NA - Not Available/Not Applicable
HS - Highly Satisfactory
S - Satisfactory
U - Unsatisfactory



UGANDA: Public Enterprise Project (Credit 1962)
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide Memoire
1. Introduction. An IDA mission consisting of Mr. Gerard Byam visited Uganda from February
22 through February 29, 1996. The objectives of the mission were to undertake a retrospective
evaluation of the Public Enterprise Project (PEP) as part of the preparation of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR), and to provide advice to the Government for the preparation of its
contribution to the report. The mission liaised with an IDA mission consisting of Stefano Migliorisi
and Marie Sheppard who were in Kampala to supervise the Enterprise Development Project.
2. The mission held discussions with officials of the Government and consultants who have had
some involvement in the project. The mission is very grateful for the cooperation and kind
courtesies extended during the course of our discussions.
3. This Aide-Memoire summarizes the mission's findings and is subject to the approval of IDA's
management.
4. Background. The credit for the amount of US$15 million was approved by IDA's Board on
November 8, 1988 and closed on May 31, 1995. US$2.5 million were cancelled. The main
objectives of the project were to define the overall policy and legislative framework, and to begin
the implementation of a program for restructuring, divestiting and liquidating parastatal enterprises.
The project helped prepare the Enterprise Development Project (EDP) which was approved on
December 3, 1991 and which supports the continuation of the parastatal restructuring and
divestiture program.
5. Outstanding Issues. The last audit of PEP's special account is overdue. The mission was told
that the audit was submitted to the Auditor-General by the external auditors, and that the Bank can
expect to receive it by the end of March following the Auditor-General's review. There are no
other outstanding issues concerning the management of the project.
6. Project Outcome. The general view of those interviewed is that PEP enjoyed some successes
Some of the studies financed by the project were timely and provided the analyses for fundamental
reforms in a variety of sectors. However, overall, PEP did not attain its objectives (see the
attachment for a summary assessment). There are several reasons for the negative assessment and
they stem from the project's design, its implementation by the Borrower, and its supervision by the
Bank.
7. Project Objectives. As stated in the project's Staff Appraisal Report, the objective of the
project was to strengthen the Government's capacity to sustain economic recovery by increasing
productivity and output and reducing financial losses in public enterprises. The specific objectives
were to:



(i) define and implement reforms of sector policy and the legislative framework and
strengthen sector administration and enterprise management;
(ii) prepare and initiate an overall program of rehabilitation and rationalization for all
public sector enterprises; and
(iii) implement a program of rehabilitation, restructuring, divestiture and liquidation of
selected industrial parastatal enterprises.
8. The Staff Appraisal Report noted that the public sector, like the rest of the economy, was
decimated by years of political instability and economic decline. Consequently, reducing the
financial burden of public enterprises was essential both to the restoration of the essential functions
of the central government as well as to overall economic recovery. As such, the objective of
preparing a public enterprise reform program was appropriate. The objective of implementing such
a program during the life of the project was, in retrospect, overly ambitious. Experience elsewhere
highlights the importance of sequencing privatization with other structural reforms and of
adequately preparing for privatization. Privatization works best when reforms dealing with
stabilization, the liberalization of prices and trade, and the financial sector are well under way.
This was the situation, arguably, by the end of the project in 1995. Adequate preparation includes
first and foremost the setting up of appropriate institutional arrangements within Government (this
was part of the intent of the project) and the creation of broad-support for the program. The need
to develop public support might mean slowing the anticipated pace of privatization. However, in
reality the pace is slowed anyway if popular support for the program fails to emerge. A slower pace
is desirable if it entails concerted efforts to increase popular support and, simultaneously, the
enforcement of a hard budget constraint on public enterprises.
9. Also, the objectives placed too large an emphasis on the rehabilitation of the most commercially
promising and economically sound public industrial enterprises. While some restructuring -
especially financial - is necessary for divestiture, attempts to physically restructure enterprises prior
to their sale increased the complexity of the divestiture process.
10. Project Design. At the time of the project's design, the Government was trying to rebuild a
war-ravaged economy further weakened by the relatively new onslaught of the AIDS epidemic. The
aim was to restore the economy's productive capacity as quickly as possible while creating an
environment conducive to increased private investment. The project attempted to facilitate the
attainment of both objectives. Experience elsewhere has shown that the imposition of a hard budget
constraint on the operations of unprofitable public enterprises is a crucial element of a successful
reform program. The emphasis on restructuring, coupled with the use of donor (ie subsidized)
funds to effect it, is contrary to this basic principle. Instead, the strategy should have placed greater
emphasis on the enforcement of a hard budget constraint (which was all the more necessary as
donor inflows increased). Also, more attention should have been paid to addressing issues of
transparency and indigenization in the design of the program.
11. The institutional arrangements for coordinating the implementation of the program were not
properly designed. This was important given the severely limited ability of the Government to



manage a complex and politically difficult parastatal reform program. One main objective of the
project was to strengthen the capacity of the Statutory Corporations Division (SCD) of the Ministry
of Finance. However, during project implementation it became apparent that SCD's weaknesses
were only partly due to lack of resources. They also stemmed from its lack of independence from
the central government. Consequently, program coordination responsibilities were transferred from
SCD to an autonomous Public Enterprises Secretariat while financial administration of the
Government's PE portfolio was transferred to the Uganda Development Bank.   These
arrangements, in turn, were not effective and a search for appropriate arrangements continued until
the end of the project.
12. Project Implementation. Implementation of the project was poor. The reasons have been
adequately documented and included poor program management, uncoordinated planning of
divestiture activities, lack of transparency, and a shortage of some specific skills such as legal
expertise. Poor project management was evidenced by two qualified audits. There is no evidence
that project staff and consultants were regularly evaluated. The project was also affected by delays
in the release of counterpart funds. Finally, project implementation was hampered by a lack of
broad commitment within the Government to the project's objectives.
13. Project Supervision. The effectiveness of project supervision was mixed. Weak project
management led to a blurring of the line between project management and supervision. This
resulted in the appearance of remote project management (i.e project management by the Bank)
which undermined local ownership of the program. The Bank was slow to respond to this crucial
issue and only did so toward the end of the project during the restructuring of EDP. The Bank also
was slow in emphasizing the need to refocus attention away from the restructuring of public
enterprises and on the need for strict adherence to a hard budget constraint. Finally, the Bank was
slow to respond to the Government's request to restructure the program and improve its
effectiveness.
14. Future Operation of the Program. EDP was restructured in February 1995 following a
comprehensive evaluation of the program and a new operation plan was agreed. The operation plan
addresses all of the issues raised above. The Aide-Memoire of the EDP mission currently visiting
Kampala summarizes that mission's assessment of the success of the plan and includes
recommendations for improvement.
15. Next Steps
(1) The Government will provide to IDA the final audit of PEP by March 31, 1996.
(2) The Government will submit to IDA its own evaluation of PEP by March 31, 1996.
(3) IDA will provide a draft of the ICR to the Government by March 12, 1996.









IMAGING
Report No:        15600
Type: ICR



