Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1962 UG
                   (Public Enterprises Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated December 2, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1962 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December  2,  1988,  between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, being  satisfied of the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association  to  assist  in the financing of the
Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed  on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings  therein  set  forth,  and  the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance;
     (c)  "MOIT" means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Industry and
Technology;
     (d)  "SCD" means the Statutory Corporations Division of MOF;
     (e)  "UDC" means the Uganda Development Corporation;
     (f)  "PIES" means MOIT's  Public Industrial Sector Enterprise
Secretariat; and
     (g)  "SARAP Study" means the Sector Administrative Reform and
Planning Study to be carried out under Part A of the Project.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to eleven
million   seven   hundred    thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 11,700,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit  Account,  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement,  for  expenditures made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of goods  and  services,  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this  Agreement, and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  dollars,  through  the  Bank  of Uganda, a
special account  in  a  commercial  bank  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits  into, and payments out
of, the Special  Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be May 31, 1995, or such
later date as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue:
          (i)  from a date sixty (60)  days after the date of this
               Agreement  (the  accrual  date)  to  the respective
               dates on which  amounts  shall  be withdrawn by the
               Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and
         (ii)  at the  rate  set  as  of  the  June 30 immediately
               preceding the accrual date  or  at such other rates
Page  3
               as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
               to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of June 30
               in each  year  shall  be  applied  as  of  the next
               payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, except  that  the rate set as of
               June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
          (i)  at such places as  the Association shall reasonably
               request;
         (ii)  without restrictions of any  kind imposed by, or in
               the territory of, the Borrower; and
        (iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
               purposes of Section 4.02  of the General Conditions
               or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
               may from time  to  time  be  designated or selected
               pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service  charge  at  the  rate  of  three-fourths  of  one percent
(3/4 of 1%)  per  annum  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on  each  April  15 and October 15
commencing April  15,  1999,  and  ending  October  15, 2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
October 15, 2008,  shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever:
          (i)  the Borrower's gross  national  product per capita,
               as  determined  by   the  Association,  shall  have
               exceeded $790 in constant 1985-dollars for five (5)
               consecutive years; and
         (ii)  the Bank shall  consider  the Borrower creditworthy
               for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and, after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of The United States of America is
Page  4
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry out the Project, through
MOF, MOIT and  UDC,  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency, and in
conformity   with   appropriate   administrative   and   financial
practices, and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall make  available  to UDC, as an equity
contribution to UDC's capital, the proceeds of the Credit utilized
for UDC and public enterprises  in UDC's portfolio, under Parts D,
E and F of the Project.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project, and  to  be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, shall be  governed  by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that:
     (a)  until such time  as  an  agreement  is  reached with the
Association on the findings of  the SARAP Study, the Borrower will
consult with the Association  before making commitments to proceed
with any investments exceeding the  equivalent of $250,000 by UDC;
and
     (b)  by no later than May  31,  1989,  PIES, SCD and UDC have
appointed staff in accordance with a staffing plan satisfactory to
the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect  of  the  Project,  of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts,  referred  to in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section including those for
               the Special Account for  each fiscal year, audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six (6) months after
               the end of each such  year, a certified copy of the
               report of such audit by said auditors of such scope
               and in such  detail  as  the Association shall have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
Page  5
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until  at  least  one  (1)  year  after the
               Association has received  the  audit for the fiscal
               year in which the  last  withdrawal from the Credit
               Account was made,  all  records (contracts, orders,
               invoices, bills, receipts  and  other documents) as
               evidence of such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.O1. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          PO Box 8147
          Kampala
          Uganda
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                FINSEC                           61170
                Kampala
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  6
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                          By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Equipment, vehicles,        1,560,000       100% of foreign
     furniture, materials                        expenditures and
     and supplies                                80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Training                      500,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Technical                   7,300,000       100%
     assistance
     and consultants'
     services
(4)  Unallocated                 2,340,000
                           _______________
         TOTAL                  11,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country, other  than that of the Borrower, for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
Page  7
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project  is to strengthen the Borrower's
capacity to sustain  economic  recovery by increasing productivity
and output and reducing financial  losses in the public enterprise
sector.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A:   Sector Administrative Reform and Planning Study
     Preparation of a comprehensive study of the public enterprise
sector with proposals for  a sector policy, institutional arrange-
ments and an  action  program  for the rehabilitation, performance
improvement and longer-term  divestiture  or liquidation of public
enterprises.
Part B:   Statutory Corporations Division
     Strengthening SCD, through technical assistance, consultants'
services, training, and acquisition  of vehicles, office equipment
and computers, including software.
Part C:   Public Industrial Sector Enterprise Secretariat
     Strengthening PIES through technical assistance, consultants'
services, training, and acquisition  of vehicles, office equipment
and computers, including software.
Part D:   Uganda Development Corporation
     Strengthening  UDC's  capacity  to  implement  a  program  of
divestiture, liquidation and rehabilitation  of enterprises in its
portfolio, through  technical  assistance,  consultants' services,
training, and acquisition of vehicles, office equipment, materials
and computers, including software.
Part E:   Management Audits, and Management and Technology
          Services
     The carrying out of:
     (1)  management audits of  about  ten  commercially sound and
economically viable manufacturing public enterprises;
     (2)  comprehensive management,  technology  or  other special
advisory services to about five of these enterprises; and
     (3)  short-term  advisory  services  required  prior  to  the
commencement of services under Part E (1) and E (2) above.
Part F:   Divestiture Support Services
     Provision of specialist  consultants'  services to assist SCD
with the design, and MOIT and  UDC with the implementation, of the
program  for  divestiture  and   liquidation  of  selected  public
enterprises.
Page  8
Part G:   Diagnostic Studies and Improvement Plans
     Carrying  out  about  six  detailed  diagnostic  studies  and
improvement plans  for  financially  or  strategically significant
non-industrial public enterprises through technical assistance and
consultants' services.
Part H:   Project Management Support
     Provision of consultants'  services for procurement, contract
negotiations,  project  accounting   and  general  administration,
including preparation of periodic progress reports.
                            *   *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by November 30, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding:
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits",
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures:
1.   Furniture, equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the  equivalent  of  $500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally,  in  accordance  with   procedures  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $200,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list  of  at  least three suppliers in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions:
1.   Review of  invitations  to  bid,  proposed  awards  and final
contracts:
     (a)   With respect  to  each  contract  estimated to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for  such  contracts  are  to  be  made  out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies  of  each  such  contract, required to be
furnished to  the  Association  pursuant  to  paragraph  2  (d) of
Appendix  1  to  the   Guidelines,   shall  be  furnished  to  the
Association prior to the making  of  the  first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to  be  made  out  of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of each such contract,  together with the other information
Page  9
required  to  be   furnished   to   the  Association  pursuant  to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines, shall be furnished to
the Association as part of  the  evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower   shall   employ   experts   and  consultants  whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
are satisfactory to the  Association. Such experts and consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with principles and procedures,
satisfactory to the Association,  on  the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency",  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Management and Policy Review
1.   (a)  SCD shall be responsible  for the overall implementation
of the Project, including procurement, contracting, maintenance of
accounting   and   disbursement   records,   and   monitoring  and
preparation of periodic progress reports.
     (b)  As the focal point  for  the Project, SCD shall directly
manage the studies to be carried  out  under  Parts A and G of the
Project, including the divestiture  design  study  under Part F of
the Project, and shall:
          (i)  ensure   that   consultants'   recommendations  are
               adequately reviewed by a working group to be set up
               with the approval of the Minister of Finance, which
               shall include the Permanent  Secretary of MOIT, the
               Permanent  Secretary   of   Planning  and  Economic
               Development, the Secretary to  the Treasury and the
               Head of SCD; and
         (ii)  assist the appropriate line ministries in preparing
               and submitting to  the  Cabinet and the President's
               Economic Council  proposals  for  policy  and other
               reforms.
2.   SCD shall  submit  to  the  Association,  for  its review and
comments:
     (a)  periodic   reports   on    the   progress   of   Project
implementation on a quarterly basis; and
     (b)  annual work programs  for  the  carrying  out of Project
activities by SCD, UDC and PIES at least three months prior to the
commencement of the calendar year in question.
Part A of the Project
3.   SCD shall ensure that  the  SARAP  Study on the public enter-
prises sector will include  an  assessment  of  the need to reform
existing legislation, wage and  salary policies, and institutional
arrangements for  the  administration  of  parastatal enterprises,
including the role and future of  SCD,  PIES and UDC. The terms of
reference  of  the  SARAP  Study  shall  be  satisfactory  to  the
Page  10
Association.
4.   SCD shall ensure that:
     (a)  the SARAP Study is  completed  no later than November 1,
1989, and is reviewed by  a  working  group, which, in addition to
the members referred to in paragraph  1 (b) of this Schedule, will
include the permanent  secretaries  of ministries with significant
parastatals  in  their  portfolios,  and,  as  appropriate, senior
officials with responsibility  for  technical  functions in legal,
auditing and other relevant  fields,  and  other present or former
experienced senior officials; and
     (b)  by no  later  than  March  31,  1990,  the  Borrower has
adopted a  policy  and  institutional  framework,  for  the public
enterprise sector, satisfactory to the Association.
Part C of the Project
5.   In order to strengthen PIES,  the Borrower shall appoint, for
a period of up  to  three  years,  a  senior technical advisor, an
industrial engineer and a  financial  analyst.  The Borrower shall
also hire  consultants  to  provide  additional support, regarding
legal and financial issues,  for implementation of the divestiture
program and assistance  with  management  training, accounting and
management  systems,  production  engineering,  technical advisory
services and market studies. The  terms of reference of PIES shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
6.   PIES shall submit quarterly reports  to  SCD, for use by SCD,
in the preparation of a  consolidated quarterly progress report to
be submitted to the Association.
Part D of the Project
7.   (a)  The short-term restructuring plan  of  UDC, prior to the
reaching of an  agreement  on  the  findings  of  the SARAP Study,
envisages that, of  the  public  enterprises  in its present port-
folio, about half of  the  enterprises  are  to be fully or partly
divested, about one-third of the  enterprises are to be liquidated
and the remaining enterprises  are  to be rehabilitated to enhance
the prospect of their eventual  divestiture. In order to implement
its restructuring plan, UDC  shall  appoint,  for  a period of two
years, a chief  operating  officer  and  a chief financial officer
whose responsibility  shall  include  the  training of counterpart
staff.
     (b)  UDC shall also  employ  consultants  to provide services
in, inter  alia,  production  engineering,  accounting, management
systems and resolution of legal issues on disputed ownership.
     (c)  In order to maximize  the  benefit of specialist inputs,
the UDC team shall develop a work program with PIES defining areas
of direct cooperation and joint effort.
     (d)  UDC shall submit quarterly reports  to SCD for SCD's use
in the preparation of a  consolidated quarterly progress report to
be submitted to the Association.
Part E of the Project
8.   Short-term  advisory  services   to   be  carried  out  under
Part E (3) of the Project shall be managed:
     (a)  by PIES, with  respect  to industrial public enterprises
under the direct control of MOIT; and
     (b)  by UDC, for those enterprises under UDC's control.
9.   In close consultation with UDC,  PIES shall prepare a list of
industrial public enterprises, approved  by the Association, which
will receive management audits under Part E (1) of the Project.
Page  11
     The objective of  the  audit  shall  be  to  determine both a
priority ranking for  rehabilitation  and  the  particular type of
rehabilitation assistance that  would  render each enterprise more
profitable  and  efficient.  Thus,   only  enterprises  which  are
potentionally profitable,  or  able  to  further  increase profit-
ability  as  a  result  of  the  assistance  to  be  provided, and
enterprises which are  economically  efficient, based on estimates
of  effective  protection  and  domestic  resources  cost analyses
determined with the assistance  of industrial economists in MOIT's
planning department, shall be eligible for consideration.
10.  (a)  Based on the outcome of management audits and supporting
analyses of PIES and  UDC,  PIES  shall, in consultation with UDC,
prepare a program  of  assistance  to  about  five of these public
enterprises which shall be  approved  by MOIT and the Association.
The Borrower  shall  ensure  that  public  enterprises selected to
receive management and technology  services are allocated adequate
foreign exchange and related domestic credit required to cover the
first year of such services.
     (b)  Performance contracts, satisfactory  to the Association,
shall be signed by the Borrower and the public enterprises setting
out, inter alia,  specific  targets,  quantitative and qualitative
performance levels, and  the  obligations  of  the parties for the
period of time during which rehabilitation is to be undertaken.
     (c)  The implementation of such contracts shall be supervised
by PIES, for enterprises under  MOIT's direct control, and by UDC,
for enterprises in UDC's portfolio.
11.  All management  audits  shall  be  completed, and appropriate
performance contracts shall be entered into no later than March 1,
1990.
Part F of the Project
12.  SCD shall be responsible for the selection and appointment of
consultants to carry  out  the  divestiture  design study and will
form a working group to  review recommendations made in the study,
including detailed divestiture implementation plans and proposals.
In addition to the members referred  to in paragraph 1 (b) of this
Schedule, the working group shall  include the Chairman of UDC and
the Managing Director of the Uganda Commercial Bank.
13.  Once agreement is reached with  the Association on the public
enterprises to be  divested  and  on  a divestiture implementation
plan,   SCD   shall   select   consultants   and   coordinate  the
implementation of the agreed measures.
     Where MOIT is unable to decide on specific measures affecting
specific public enterprises, SCD shall refer the case for decision
to a Divestiture  Implementation  Committee,  with the Minister of
Finance, as chairman, and  including the Attorney General/Minister
of Justice,  and  the  Minister  of  Industry  and  Technology, as
members. The terms of  reference  and  the powers of the Committee
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
14.  The  divestiture  design  study  shall  be  completed  and  a
detailed  divestiture  implementation  plan,  satisfactory  to the
Association, shall be submitted  to  the Association no later than
May 31, 1989.
Part G of the Project
15.  SCD shall be responsible for the selection and supervision of
consultants who will  carry  out  diagnostic  studies of about six
non-industrial public enterprises,  agreed  to by the Association,
and  selected  on  the  basis  of  criteria  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
     Consultants' recommendations shall be  submitted  by SCD to a
Page  12
working group which, in  addition  to  the  members referred to in
paragraph 1 (b)  of  this  Schedule,  shall  include the permanent
secretary  of  the  line   ministry  responsible  for  the  public
enterprise in question, at  least  one  other senior civil servant
from the  same  ministry  or  from  a  related  ministry,  and, as
appropriate, the  general  manager  or  chairman  of  the board or
director of the public enterprise  concerned, and a private sector
representative with sufficient experience and knowledge to make an
important contribution to the review process.
16.  SCD shall ensure  that  the  diagnostic  studies of the first
three public enterprises are  completed  by September 1, 1989, and
those for the remaining three are completed by December 1, 1989.
     Recommendations  for   policy   reforms   and  rehabilitation
actions, satisfactory to  the  Association,  shall be completed by
March 1, 1990,  for  the  first  three  public enterprises, and by
July 1, 1990, for the remaining three.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  Eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received satisfactory evidence that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
Page  13
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for Eligible
                Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  Eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  Eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
        (i)   was made for  an  expenditure  or  in  an amount not
              eligible pursuant to  paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
              and
       (ii)   was not justified by  the  evidence furnished to the
              Association,  the  Borrower   shall,  promptly  upon
              notice from the Association:
              (A)  provide  such   additional   evidence   as  the
                   Association may request; or
              (B)  deposit into the  Special  Account  (or, if the
                   Association shall  so  request,  refund  to the
                   Association) an amount  equal  to the amount of
                   such payment  or  the  portion  thereof  not so
                   eligible or  justified.  Unless the Association
                   shall otherwise  agree,  no  further deposit by
                   the Association into  the Special Account shall
                   be made until  the  Borrower  has provided such
                   evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the
                   case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Page  14
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds  to  the  Association  made  pursuant  to  para-
graphs 6 (a), 6 (b) and  6  (c) of this Schedule shall be credited
to  the  Credit   Account   for   subsequent   withdrawal  or  for
cancellation in accordance  with  the  relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
