Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3576 NIR 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated    November 21, 2001
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3576 NIR 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated   November 21, 2001, between Republic of NIGER (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
September 14, 2001, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
sustainable fiscal and budgetary management (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the 
Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof,  and 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in support of 
the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit in two tranches as 
hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the 
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15): 
“12. 
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ 
means, collectively, all such countries.”; 
(b) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 13, as renumbered, is modified to read: 
 
“Project” means the Program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.”; 
(c) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit account specified in 
Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(d) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement 
and of these General Conditions”; 
(e) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(f) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
 
(g) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 and 
9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) “CFA Franc” means “
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine”,
 the currency 
of the Borrower; 
(b) 
“
Chambre des Comptes” 
means the Borrower’s Supreme Court specialized Division 
charged with the auditing of the Borrower’s budget; 
(c) “Domestic Arrears Reduction Plan” means the plan established by the Borrower, 
dated September 14, 2001, which describes the Government’s quantitative objectives and 
priorities for the settlement of domestic arrears, as well as settlement modalities; 
(d) “Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(e) “Fiscal Year”  means the Borrower’s fiscal year, beginning January 1 and ending 
December 31; 
(f) “First Tranche” means the tranche referred to in Category (1) of the table in 
paragraph 1, of Schedule 1, to this Agreement, to be released by the Association on or after the 
Effective Date; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(g) 
“ENI” means 
Ecole Normale d’Instituteurs, 
the Borrower’s four public institutions 
for training of primary school teachers, and established pursuant respectively to decree No. 70-
256/MEN of November 28, 1970, decree No. 79-71/PCMS/MEN of April 26, 1979, and decree 
No. 73-117/PRN/MEN/JS of October 5, 1973. 
(h) “
Loi de finances” 
means the annual budget law of the Borrower, as approved by the 
National Assembly every year. 
(i) 
“Loi de réglement
”
means a  law passed by the Borrower’s National Assembly every 
year which reviews the execution of the budget law (
loi de finances
)
for the preceding fiscal year; 
and 
(j)  “Second Tranche” means the tranche referred to in Category (2) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, to be released by the Association on or after the 
date on which the conditions referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement have been met. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to fifty-four million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 54,500,00). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the Credit Account in 
support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first request 
for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain at Banque Centrale des Etats de 
l’Afrique de l’Ouest (BCEAO), a deposit account in CFA Francs on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the 
Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Credit shall have been 
used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount equal to the amount 
of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall so request, refund such amount to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account 
for cancellation. 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account after the aggregate of the 
proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account shall have reached the equivalent of 
SDR 23,400,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: 
Page  5
-
4
-
(A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the 
Program;  
(B) 
that the actions set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been 
undertaken;  
(C) 
that the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework is consistent with 
the objectives of the Program, and  
if, after said exchange of views, the Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the 
progress achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the 
Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Association, then 
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or 
any part thereof. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date of 
this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by 
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as  may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of 
the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time 
be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
June 1 and December 1 of each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and 
December 1, commencing December 1, 2011 and ending June 1, 2041. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on June 1, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association’s 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be taken after the 
Page  7
-
6
-
disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of 
the Program, or any action taken under the Program. 
Section 3.02. Up
on
the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination  
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministre des Finances  
 
Ministère des Finances, des Réformes Economiques et de la Privatisation
 
B.P. 862 
 
Niamey, NIGER 
 
Telex: 
 
2559 
MJ     Facsimile: 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
   248423 
(MCI) 
or (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of 
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF NIGER 
 
By 
 
 
By: /s/  Joseph Diatta 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
   /s/ 
Theodore 
Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Tranche
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of  
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) 
First Tranche 
23,400,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures 
 (2) 
Second Tranche 
 
TOTAL 
31,100,000 
_________ 
54,500,000 
======== 
100% of foreign 
expenditures 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the  term
 “foreign expenditures” means expendi-
tures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and for purposes of Section 2.02 
(c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to finance any of the following 
expenditures: 
(a) 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
(b) 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another credit or a loan; 
(c) 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the United 
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups 
or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured 
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 
728.43 
  Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
 
Jewelry of gold, silver 
 
or
platinum group metals 
 
(except watches and watch 
 
cases) and goldsmith's or 
 
silversmiths’ wares 
 
(including set gems) 
 
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold ores 
 
and concentrates) 
Page  12
-
11 - 
(d) 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
(e) 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or 
import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);  
(f) 
expenditures (i) in the territories of any country which is not a Participatory 
Country or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (ii) on account of 
any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations; and 
(g) 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Actions Referred to in  Section 2. 02 (d) of this Agreement 
The Borrower has: 
I. 
Pertaining to fiscal stability and budgetary outcomes for 2001
 
a) 
Implemented by December 31, 2001 the Domestic Arrears Reduction Plan according to 
the quantified reduction targets and settlement modalities set forth in said plan and 
avoided the accumulation of new arrears in FY 2001. 
b) 
Closed budgetary accounts for FY 2001 pursuant to prevailing legislation, and 
furnished to the Association a final consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower’s treasury 
(
Balance Générale du Trésor) 
for FY 2001;  
II. 
Pertaining to budgetary preparation and execution reform 
c) Adopted 
by 
Arrêté
 new budget and accounting nomenclatures, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association, for the preparation and execution of the 2003 
Loi 
de finances
;
d) 
Furnished to the Association evidence in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association of the submission of a procurement code, in form and substance acceptable 
to the Association, to the Borrower’s national assembly; 
e) 
Furnished to the Association the draft audit report for FY 1997 of the specialized 
Division of the Borrower’s 
Chambre des Comptes
 of the Borrower’s Supreme Court. 
III. 
Pertaining to content and initial execution of the 2002 loi de finances  
f) 
Provided for allocations in the approved 2002 
loi de finances
 pursuant to 
paragraphs 59 through 64 of the Program;  
g) 
Executed the budget for the first quarter of FY 2002, in particular for the items 
listed in paragraphs 59 through 64 of the Program, as evidenced by a joint report from the 
Ministries of Finance, National Education and Public Health. 
IV. 
Pertaining to social sector reforms 
 
h) 
Furnished to the Association evidence, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, of revised statutes and work programs of
 
ENI,
 
and of the adoption of a 
teachers’ recruitment policy institutionalizing exclusively contractual recruitment for 
teaching positions in primary schools. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
M:/wpdoc/niger/nonconformed/sac/SAC02 (DCA).doc 
 
2/4/2003 11:22 AM
 
