                                                                             86938

                                                                                   CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                     EDS2001-0528
                                                                                   November 19, 2001
                                                                                        05:34:12 PM



 Statement by Sharon Weber
 Date of Meeting: November 20, 2001

World Bank: Niger Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report and Public Expenditure
                                Adjustment Credit


 We welcome this CAS Progress Report which provides a comprehensive overview of the
 progress made in the implementation of Niger’s 1997 CAS, and an informative update of the
 Bank’s assistance strategy for the country.

 We appreciate the CAS Progress Report’s clear and frank analysis of Niger’s progress under the
 current program and we agree that the goals of the Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit
 (PEAC) must be simple and achievable. Niger ranking 161 of 162 countries in terms of human
 development, means that there is, indeed, a lot of work to be done and the Bank's priority on
 poverty reduction is well placed. Governance remains a central issue of concern to us.

 Given the impact of the events of September 11 on the poorest countries, particularly the HIPCs,
 we would like to have an updated analysis of Niger’s situation.

 We are pleased that the government is demonstrating a strong sense of ownership in preparing a
 full PRSP, and a strong commitment in ensuring broad-based participation. We support the
 Management’s decision to carry out a full CAS upon completion of Niger’s PRSP.

 We also support the Bank’s approach to strengthening the capacity of Niger’s authorities to
 manage and plan development programs with a view to increasing programmatic lending in the
 future. It should be noted that Canada’s aid agency is following the same approach in Niger,
 specifically in the education sector. The approach developed in the PEAC is a sound one, which
 will help the government to overcome some of its financial constraints and continue to address
 administrative weaknesses and pursue poverty reduction.
                                                                   2




Specific Comments

Public Budgetary Management : While progress has been made and relative stability brought to
the country since early 2000, governance remains a central issue in Niger for effective use of aid
resources, and to regain credibility of the public sector. We therefore welcome the continued
emphasis on improved public expenditure management and budgetary reform. Efficient and
effective implementation of the PRSP will largely depend on the government’s capacity to
prepare and implement a sound medium term expenditure framework and an annual budget in
accordance with the PRSP objectives. My Canadian authorities would be ready to consider
working in collaboration with the Bank and other donors in assessing Niger’s fiduciary
framework and in strengthening the government’s capacities in these areas.

Decentralization: The effective transfer of authority to local governments should take into
account capacities at the local level once it is determined that the fiduciary framework is
sustainable. The Bank, with the IMF and international partners, should emphasize the importance
of the local government in delivering pro-poor services in the country and provide necessary
support to achieve this goal.

Growth Prospects: We view the projected growth rates for 2001-2004 as perhaps overly
optimistic (average of 4.4 percent, in contrast with 0.1 percent for 2000), especially given Niger’s
vulnerability to external shocks, climatic conditions, and risks of political instability. We have
observed similar exceedingly optimistic growth projects for other HIPCs, and would like a
response from staff on this.With respect to recent international events, are the assessments
realistic for filling the 2001 and 2002 funding gaps, including the potential impact on Niger's
economy of the expected global slowdown in economic growth? One could expect a reduction in
government revenues and, eventually, an increase in public spending to cope with increased
vulnerability. Accordingly, could staff indicate what impact the global slowdown will have on
Niger’s economic growth prospects and debt sustainability.

We agree in general terms with the statement that expanded trade in the sub-region can
potentially favor growth. However, we would question the basis for the Bank's position that
expanded trade within the sub-region is seen as a prominent source of growth when the report
admits that trade with Nigeria, Niger's major partner, is "mostly unrecorded" (P. 4- 5 paragraph
10). Could staff clarify whether the trade balance with Nigeria is negative or positive, and what
actions are planned to improve collection and availability of trade-related data?

To help expand trade, it is important to identify Niger’s comparative advantages that will help it
to engage in growth-driven trade. It is also essential to establish an effective data collection
mechanism to support trade policy-making.

We would encourage a stronger focus on strengthening the government’s capacity against
potential sources of destabilization in the country, particularly during the ongoing process of
political decentralization. It is also necessary for the government to establish effective
anti-corruption strategy in the coming years.



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                   3



Population Growth: The population growth rate remains a critical challenge to Niger’s
development, which can seriously hamper or even negate any economic growth or developmental
gains. While the IDA-funded Population Project increased access to and quality of reproductive
health services, demand for services remains low. This is an area where efforts need to be
strengthened to control the high fertility rate, as the population is expected to double in 25 years,
and HIV/AIDS is spreading rapidly. What action is the staff taking to address the demand
problem of the Population Project?

Education: The weak progress in education (85 % of the population is illiterate), and the lack of
demand for education, are cause for serious concern. Education, with special emphasis on
women, is the key factor for any prospect of future development, and should remain as one of the
Bank’s programming priorities. We would encourage a greater focus on the quality of education
and building institutional capacities in the education sector, and that cross-cutting issues such as
gender, HIV/AIDS and the environment be properly defined and monitored in the Bank’s
strategies for education. What are staff intentions in this regard?

Poverty Monitoring and Analysis : Poverty analysis and monitoring are particular challenges for
the country due to relatively old data. We hope to see more accurate poverty analysis and
concrete measures to develop an effective poverty monitoring system in the full PRSP.

Health and HIV/AIDS: The increased attention paid to HIV/AIDS is commendable and it is
important that the delivery of HIV/AIDS support is within a balanced package of health care. In
light of the rapid population growth in the country, we again encourage strengthened efforts in
the next CAS on increasing demand for reproductive health services.

Gender: We would encourage further analysis on the impact of the ongoing public finance and
structural reforms on the poor, with particular attention to gender and regional issues.

Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit: We support the proposed PEAC including its focus on
budgetary and administrative reform and the country’s poverty reduction strategy. We also agree
with the proposed two-tranche disbursement of SDR 54.5 million during 2001-2002.
Concerning the future PRSC, emphasis should be concrete and measurable on results-oriented
targets, in accordance with the PRSP-identified objectives.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
