Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3393 
Project Name 
India Statistical Strengthening Project 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Central government administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P108489 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD  
Date PID Prepared 
October 19, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
February 8, 2008 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 30, 2008 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
The importance of good statistics to provide the evidence base for economic development and poverty 
reduction has long been recognized. More recently, the emphasis on development results and on the need 
to monitor growth and poverty reduction has placed a renewed emphasis on assisting countries to increase 
their capacity to collect, compile, disseminate and use relevant and reliable statistics. The World Bank has 
a
specific mandate to support these efforts and is working at the international level within the framework 
of the Marrakech Action Plan for Statistics and with countries, especially those eligible for IDA 
assistance. 
The need to assist countries to strengthen statistical capacity is a key component of the 
results measurement system for IDA 14 and is expected to be emphasized even more strongly in 
IDA 15
.
India has a long history of official statistics and has developed one of the largest and most complex 
statistical systems in the world. For some time the country has been at the forefront in the development of 
statistical methodology, especially for sample surveys and there is a large and extensive statistical 
infrastructure. In recent years, however, rapid economic and social development has placed the statistical 
system under strain. As the National Statistical Commission (NSC), set up by the Government in 2000 to 
examine the statistical system in India and to make recommendations on how it could be improved, 
observed, “
Despite the system’s impressive and commendable achievements in the past, there is a 
growing concern regarding the quality of the data presently being made available by it. The operational 
efficiency of the Indian Statistical System today is compromised by serious deficiencies with respect to 
credibility, timeliness and adequacy. Some of the deficiencies that could have been ignored in the earlier 
period of a highly controlled regime can no longer be, now that the country has moved to a more 
liberalized economy
.”
1
India, in accordance with its federal structure, has created a statistical system, which is both decentralized 
and centralized. Large-scale statistical operations are centralized as are the compilation of macro-
economic statistics. However, the State Governments, through the state level line ministries and statistical 
organizations are also engaged in collecting and generating data on a large number of variables.  Even 
where the responsibility for policy lies with the Central Ministries, the actual collection of data may be 
done by the State Governments.  There is, therefore a need for a high degree of coordination between the 
1
NSC (2001) “Report of the National Statistical Commission” Volume 1, August 2001, Delhi 
Page  2
2
central statistical authorities and the state-level organizations.  The Statistics Wing of the Ministry of 
Statistics and Programme Implementation is the nodal agency for coordination of statistical activities and 
maintenance of statistical standards. For coordination with States and Union Territories, it operates 
through State Directorates of Economics and Statistics (NSC, 2001). 
 
Since the publication of the NSC Report, GOI have moved to implement a number of the major 
recommendations into effect. In particular, efforts have been made to strengthen the strategic direction 
and leadership of the national statistical system. In order to provide the required vertical and horizontal 
coordination, the NSC recommended the establishment of an 
“… independent statistical authority free 
from political interference having power to set priorities with respect to Core Statistics
”. In 2006, the 
Government established the permanent National Statistical Commission, under the chairmanship of 
Professor Suresh Tendulkar. The terms of reference for the Commission include assuming responsibility 
for setting policy and maintaining quality standards across the whole of the statistical system.  
 
Other changes have been made to strengthen the leadership of MOSPI, addressing the concerns identified 
by the NSC. Two important recommendations included in the 2001 NSC Report were implemented in 
2006 and 2007. First, the post of Chief Statistician of India (CSI) and Secretary of the Ministry has been 
established and the first CSI, Dr. Pronab Sen, took up his post in March 2007. Second, in 2006, the post 
of the Director General of the Central Statistical Organization was filled after remaining unoccupied for a 
number of years. Both the establishment of the permanent NSC as well as the provision of technical and 
professional leadership in MOSPI provide, for the first time, a leadership mechanism for the Indian 
statistical system as well as important interlocutors for the Bank in developing the ISSP. 
 
The World Bank has been in discussion with the Government of India to help the statistical system meet 
the challenges of a rapidly developing state for more than 10 years (Box 1). In contrast to the project 
prepared in 1999, the focus of the proposed new project will be on strengthening the capacity of all 35 
States and Union Territories to collect compile and disseminate statistics. This is in line with the 
recommendations of the 2001 NSC Report, which identifies the crucial role that all states have in 
generating the source data for a wide range of national-level statistics, and providing  data for policy and 
planning at the state and local level. . 
 
In the opinion of the project team, this is now an opportune moment for the Indian Statistical 
Strengthening Project to be implemented. In particular, the structural changes described above provide, 
for the first time, an appropriate strategic framework for the development of the Indian statistical system. 
Second, in the words of the Chief Statistician of India “
The national statistical system is now at an 
inflexion point. With the liberalization of the economy and its gradual integration with the international 
economic order, the demand for statistical data from a variety of actors on the national and international 
stage is growing apace.
”
2
Third, under the leadership of the Chief Statistician of India and the NSC, 
MOSPI has indicated its commitment to reform and change. The ministry is proposing to prepare a 
Statistical Master Plan that will set out the strategic vision for the statistical system as a whole including 
detailed priorities for strengthening capacity at the state level and below. This plan, which will be 
formally approved and endorsed by the NSC, is an essential pre-requisite for any capacity building 
program. Finally, an efficient and effective statistical system is seen as essential for the Bank’s own 
operations, both lending and non-lending
3
.
2
Speech presented by Dr. Pronab Sen, Chief Statistician of India, on the occasion of the first India National 
Statistics Day, 29 June, 2007, in honor of Professor P.C. Mahalanobis, founder of the modern Indian statistical 
system 
3
R, Grawe, “Increasing the Impact of the World Bank’s Analytic Work in India - Discussion Draft 
Page  3
3
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the proposed project will be to strengthen the capacity and operations of the 
Indian Statistical System in line with the recommendations of the 2001 National Statistical 
Commission Report (NSC), by strengthening the capacity of the state statistical systems.
 In 
particular, the project will help to put into effect the recommendations concerning states, by strengthening 
the role of the Departments of Economics and Statistics (DES) to enable them to evolve into State 
Statistical Bureaus. The project will help to build capacity to collect, compile and disseminate relevant 
and reliable statistics both to contribute to planning and policy making at the state and local level and to 
provide the data needed for the 20 core national statistical activities. It will be based on the detailed 
assessment
 of states’ capacities carried out in Tier 1 as well as the Statistical Master Plan. By the end of 
the project it is anticipated that all states will be able to compile and report indicators for these 20 core 
activities according to minimum standards set by the National Statistical Commission
4
.
The project will support the reorganization of the DESs as required and the development for the more 
effective coordination of statistical activities within states. It will help to develop structures to assist line 
4
The current list of core statistical activities include state domestic product, capital formation, district domestic 
product, contribution of local bodies, major fiscal data, annual survey of industries, index of industrial production, 
crop area and production statistics, WPI,CPI,  health, morbidity, mortality and family welfare statistics, education 
and literacy, housing, labor and employment, birth and death registration, electricity and distribution, environment, 
transport, local area planning and participation in National Sample Survey. 
Box 1. World Bank Involvement in Statistics in India 
 
Discussions with GOI on possible support to the national statistical system began in 1995 and by 1999 a specific 
investment lending project had been prepared. This project proposed a number of interven
tions, but its main 
focus was to strengthen the capacity of MOSPI at the center, to collect, compile and dis
seminate statistics in a 
number of key areas. In 2000, however, discussions about the
project were put on hold, pending the publication 
of the 2001 NSC Report.  
In 2002 the Government requested the Bank to resume dis
cussions to support implementation of the NSC 
recommendations and a two tier process was agreed. Tier 1, with funding, as 
required, from an existing credit 
(The TA for Economic reforms project), involved five components focusing on technical improvements to some 
na
tional data series and an assessment of the statistical capacities of the 35 States and Union Territories. Under 
Tier 1 MOSPI was able: (i) to test the feasibility of setting up an All-
India Business register; (ii) to pilot new 
ways of collect
ing statistics from the services sector of the economy; (iii) to establish the capacity of the private 
sector to undertake sta
tistical activities on commission and; (iv) to determine the capacities of all States and 
Un
ion Territories to compile statistics in 20 core areas up to a national minimum standard. The first three 
components were completed in 2006 and the recommendations 
have been taken up in the MOSPI work program. 
The last compo
nent, which was by far the largest and most complex, was carried out in two phases. The first 
phase, comprising a detailed assessment of the Departments of Economics and Statistics in each state w
as 
com
pleted by June 2007. The second phase, which involves the preparation of a combined report and the 
preparation of an action plan to address weaknesses, is in progress and will be completed by December 2007. 
Based on the outputs from Tier 1, the Gover
nment prepared a concept paper for the India Statistical 
Strengthen
ing Project (ISSP), which was approved by the National Statistical Commission and the Planning 
Commission and has been included as a GOI Project in the eleventh Five-Year Plan. In June 2007
,
the Ministry 
of Finance submitted a formal re
quest to the World Bank to support ISSP with an IBRD loan of US$120 million 
with co-
financing by the Government of an additional $30 million. The GOI concept note proposes that the 
project will strengthen the capacity of the States and Union Territo
ries, so that all states are able to meet a 
minimum standard for 20 core statistical activities. 
 
Page  4
4
ministries and other data agencies to improve the quality and coverage of the data they collect and to 
promote their use at the state, district and block levels. 
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
The project, as proposed by GOI, will be a Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS), implemented by 
MOSPI, with all 35 states and union territories as potential beneficiaries
.
MOSPI as the sponsors of 
the project have indicated in their concept note that, for reasons of equity as well as statistical necessity, it 
is important that the project cover all states and that all have the opportunity to participate.  
 
At the state level the State Departments of Economics and Statistics or State Statistical Bureaus will be 
the immediate counterparts of MOSPI. It is also proposed that the project will be designed as a hybrid 
input and output-based, disbursement operation. Within the states, disbursements will be triggered by the 
achievement of agreed outputs and targets, based on standard costs related to the classification of states 
outlined below. For activities managed centrally by MOSPI, including project management, disbursement 
will be on an input basis, because these activities will contribute to all outputs at the state level. The 
project will be prepared as a phase of the Multi-country Statistical Capacity Building (STATCAP) 
adaptable program loan. 
 
The project will provide support to states in five areas: improving the coordination and management of 
statistical activities in the state; human resource development; developing statistical infrastructure; 
investing in physical infrastructure including IT,  and improving statistical operations, especially 
operations supporting  improvement in the quality  and  the dissemination of   statistical data (this is not 
limited to the core series but applies to all statistics produced by the state level institutions). A sixth 
project component will support project implementation within MOSPI.  
 
The overall framework for the project will be provided by the Statistical Master Plan (SMP) and a team 
under the direction of the Chief Statistician of India has been established. The SMP will provide the 
policy framework for the development of the Indian Statistical System and the further implementation of 
the 2001 NSC Report. SMP will be reviewed and approved by the National Statistical Commission. A 
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry is already in place with a full time Manager of the 
rank of Deputy Director General.  A Steering Committee
5
has been constituted under the Secretary 
(Statistics and Program Implementation) and Chief Statistician of India to monitor the implementation of 
the World Bank Statistical Strengthening Project.   
 
It is anticipated that project activities within states will be differentiated based on the level of statistical 
development in states as determined from the Tier 1 assessment. 
Preliminary analysis indicates that 
states may be considered in three main categories
:
those with little or no statistical capacity, (the latest 
iteration on classification of states makes no mention of the recently formed states); those with some 
capacity, but facing systemic and structural problems, and those where basic but still inadequate capacity 
is in place, and where technical improvements are required in specific statistical operations. 
Each state 
wishing to participate in and benefit from the project will be assisted to prepare a State Statistical 
Plan and this will form the basis of an agreement or memorandum of understanding with MOSPI 
and will be used to identify the investment priorities for the remainder of the project
.
The State 
plans will also set out the outputs to be produced and the standard costs. It is anticipated that the state 
statistical plans will be prepared in the first twelve to eighteen months of the proposed project. A 
particular concern will be to assist states to deal with manpower constraints and to improve the efficiency 
5
The committee members include Director General (CSO), Director General (NSSO), Advisor, Planning 
Commission, Director (Fund-Bank), DEA, Additional Directors (NAD,ESD,FOD,SSD), PIU Manager and the 
World Bank representative. 
Page  5
5
and effectiveness of statistical operations. This is likely to require that greater attention is given to making 
use of data derived from administrative processes and reducing, to some extent, the current emphasis on 
surveys, which are heavily manpower intensive. 
 
It is not possible to identify indicative costs at this stage, but it is expected that the average level of 
investment in statistical capacity in each state will be of the order of $3 to $4 million over a four year 
period. The state statistical plans will provide the opportunity to identify existing and potential 
partnerships and co-financing, especially from sector operations with specific statistical and data 
components. 
 
Alternative designs for the project that have been considered are stand-alone input-based disbursement 
investment lending and development policy lending. An input-based disbursement investment lending 
operation is considered to be more problematic for two main reasons. First, it would mean that it is not 
possible to take advantage of the simplified preparation and approval process already in place for 
STATCAP operations. Second, it will reduce the emphasis on results. The use of development policy 
lending for this operation, based on the Statistical Master Plan, is also thought not to be feasible because 
at present GOI does not consider DPL to be appropriate for this kind of project. If management considers 
this worth pursing discussions can be held with GOI to see if this approach is potentially feasible. 
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
The   Environmental safeguard is not applicable to this project. The reason being the development 
objective of the project is to improve the statistical capacity of the state statistical systems which is 
neither detrimental to the environment nor does it create any negative externalities. The project is more 
likely to have a positive impact in facilitating reliable and credible statistics to support research and policy 
making in these areas.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 30 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
120 
 Total 
150 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Farah Zahir 
Title: Country Economist 
Tel: 5785+259 
Fax: 24619393 
Email: Fzahir@worldbank.org 
Location: New Delhi, India (IBRD)
 
