Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7796-IN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Statistical Strengthening Loan) 
 
between 
 
INDIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION  
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated July 9, 2010 
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated July 9, 2010, entered into between INDIA, 
 
acting by its President (
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purpose of providing 
financing in support of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The 
Bank has decided to provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions 
which the Borrower has already taken under the Program and which are described in 
Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (b) the Borrower’s maintenance of an 
appropriate macro-economic policy framework.  The Borrower and the Bank therefore 
hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
LOAN 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, the amount of one hundred and seven million 
Dollars ($107,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 
of this Agreement (“Loan”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in support of the Program 
in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Page  3
2
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding 
from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting 
of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on the 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank 
shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section II of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2.08. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General Conditions 
(renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement and relating to 
Cooperation and Consultation
), the Borrower shall 
promptly furnish to the Bank such information relating to the provisions of this 
Article II as the Bank may, from time to time, reasonably request. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation 
through MOSPI.  To this end: 
Page  4
3
Page  5
4
(a) 
the Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the request of 
either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in 
carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
–
REMEDIES OF THE BANK 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part of it, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Borrower
’s Representative is any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint 
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary of the Department of 
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower. 
 
6.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Department of Economic Affairs 
Ministry of Finance 
New Delhi 110 001 
India 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
ECOFAIRS 
 953-31-66175 
 91-11-23092039 
Page  6
5
New Delhi  
 
FINE IN 
Page  7
6
6.03. The 
Bank
’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at New Delhi, India, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INDIA 
 
By /s/ 
Anup K. Pujari 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 RECONTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/   N. Roberto Zagha 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Loan Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Borrower under the Program include the following:
 
1.   
The National Statistical Commission has, on April 30, 2008, endorsed the 
National Strategic Statistical Plan (NSSP), which is now the guiding policy 
document for the national statistical system in India.  
 
2. 
The Borrower has enacted the Collection of Statistics Act 2008 (No.7 of 2009).  
 
3. 
The Borrower has approved the ISSP as a centrally sponsored scheme under the 
11
th
 Five Year Plan.   
 
4. 
The standing committee of the Conference of Central and State Statistical 
Organizations has included ISSP as a permanent agenda item for its meetings. 
 
5. 
The Borrower has prepared, approved, and disseminated the national standards 
for eight key statistical activities.    
 
6.  
The Borrower has established the necessary institutional capacity required to 
support the implementation of the ISSP.  
 
7. 
The Borrower has disseminated information about the ISSP, including the 
progress of reforms, through the dedicated MOSPI web site.   
 
8. 
The governments of seven States have indicated their commitment to the 
Program by signing Letters of Participation.  
 
9.   
The Borrower has published an assessment report on the statistical capacities and 
needs of the States.   
 
Section II. 
Availability of Loan Proceeds
A. General
.
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank 
may specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Loan Amounts
.
The allocation of the amount of the Loan to this 
end is set out in the table below: 
 
Page  9
8
Allocations 
Amount of the Loan Allocated
 
Single Tranche 
 
$106,732,500 
Front-end Fee 
 
$267,500 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
$107,000,000 
C. 
Deposit of Loan Amount
.
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree:   
 
1. 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an 
account designated by the Borrower and acceptable to the Bank; and 
 
2. 
the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Loan into 
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Borrower’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Loan shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Bank determines 
at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to make a payment for an 
Excluded Expenditure, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Bank. Amounts 
refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
E. Closing 
Date
.
The Closing Date is July 30, 2011. 
Page  10
9
SCHEDULE 2
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage)
 
On each January 15 and July 15 
Beginning July 15, 2015  
through January 15, 2040 
 
2% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with 
 paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies.
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
Page  11
10
 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.  
 
5. 
If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one (1) Loan 
Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization 
schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  12
11
 
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Conference of Central and State Statistical Organizations” means Conference of 
Central and State Statistical Organizations in India whose objectives and modus 
operandi are described in MOSPI’s Office Memorandum No.M-12014/2/2006-
PSSU dated July 11, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or 
International Development Association has financed or agreed to 
finance, or which the Bank or International Development Association has 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to the 
Borrower: 
 
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121 
 
Tobacco, un-manufactured, tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718 718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group 
metals (except watches and watch cases) 
and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores 
and concentrates) 
Page  13
12
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Bank determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or other Borrower of the Loan proceeds, without the Borrower 
(or other such Borrower) having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to address such practices when they occur. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
4. 
“ISSP” means the India Statistical Strengthening Project, a centrally sponsored 
scheme, which forms part of the Program, which aims to assist States to improve 
their statistical systems within a coordinated national framework. 
 
5. 
“Letter of Participation” means a letter signed by the government of a State 
through which the State expresses its commitment to the NSSP.  
 
6. 
“MOSPI” means the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation of the 
Borrower, or any successor or successors thereto. 
 
7. 
“National Statistical Commission” means the permanent National Statistical 
Commission established by the Borrower through Government Resolution  
No.A-1011/1/2005-Ad.I dated June 1, 2005. 
 
8. 
“NSSP” means the National Strategic Statistical Plan (NSSP) endorsed by the 
National Statistical Commission on April 30, 2008 as the guiding policy 
document for the national statistical system in India. 
 
9. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
strengthen the statistical systems of the States, set forth or referred to in the letter 
dated April 13, 2010 from the Borrower to the Bank, declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the execution of the Program through MOSPI, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during its execution. 
Page  14
13
 
10. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Loan allocated to the category entitled 
“Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
11. 
“State” means any state or union territory of the Borrower or any successor(s) to 
such state or union territory. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 
above) is modified to read as follows:  
 
“Section 2.05. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance; Capitalizing Front-end Fee 
and Interest 
 
(a) 
If the Loan Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of the Loan of an advance made by the
 
Bank or the Association 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Bank shall, on behalf of such Loan Party, withdraw 
from the Loan Account on or after the Effective Date the amount required to 
repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of 
such withdrawal from the Loan Account and to pay all accrued and
 
unpaid 
charges, if any,
 
on
the advance as at such date.  The Bank shall pay the amount 
so withdrawn to itself or the Association, as the case may be, and shall cancel the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 5.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 5.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article V are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 5.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  15
14
 
“Section 5.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Borrower shall retain all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under the Loan until two 
years after the Closing Date. The Borrower shall enable the Bank’s representatives to 
examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 5.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 4 above) is 
modified to read as follows: 
 
Section 5.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Borrower shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date, a report of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the 
performance by the Loan Parties and the Bank of their respective obligations under the 
Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan. 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or deleted 
as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in alphabetical order 
to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered accordingly:
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Conversion Date” is modified to read as follows: 
 
“‘Conversion Date’ means, in respect of a Conversion, the Execution Date (as 
herein defined) or such other date as requested by the Borrower and accepted 
by the Bank, on which the Conversion enters into effect, and as further 
specified in the Conversion Guidelines.” 
 
(b) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Loan is put in support of 
the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement.” 
 
(c) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(d) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows (and all references to “Project” throughout these 
General Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”): 
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Loan Agreement in support 
of which the Loan is made.”   
Page  16
15
 
