Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3223 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/29/2007 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: India 
Project ID: P108489 
Project Name: India Statistical Strengthening Project 
Task Team Leader: Farah Zahir 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 8, 
2008 
Estimated Board Date: May 29, 2008 
Managing Unit: SASPR 
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program 
Loan 
Sector: Central government administration (100%) 
Theme: Economic statistics, modeling and forecasting (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
120.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
30.00
30.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The objective of the proposed project will be to strengthen the capacity and operations of the 
Indian Statistical System in line with the recommendations of the 2001 National Statistical 
Commission Report (NSC), by strengthening the capacity of the state statistical systems. In 
particular, the project will help to put into effect the recommendations concerning states, by 
strengthening the role of the Departments of Economics and Statistics (DES) to enable them to 
evolve into State Statistical Bureaus. The project will help to build capacity to collect, compile 
and disseminate relevant and reliable statistics both to contribute to planning and policy making 
at the state and local level and to provide the data needed for the 20 core national statistical 
activities. It will be based on the detailed assessment of states? capacities carried out in Tier 1 as 
well as the Statistical Master Plan. By the end of the project it is anticipated that all states will be 
able to compile and report indicators for these 20 core activities according to minimum standards 
set by the National Statistical Commission .  
 
The project will support the reorganization of the DESs as required and the development for the 
more effective coordination of statistical activities within states. It will help to develop structures 
Page  2
to assist line ministries and other data agencies to improve the quality and coverage of the data 
they collect and to promote their use at the state, district and block levels.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The project, as proposed by GOI, will be a Centrally Sponsored Scheme (CSS), implemented by 
MOSPI, with all 35 states and union territories as potential beneficiaries. MOSPI as the sponsors 
of the project have indicated in their concept note that, for reasons of equity as well as statistical 
necessity, it is important that the project cover all states and that all have the opportunity to 
participate.  
 
At the state level the State Departments of Economics and Statistics or State Statistical Bureaus 
will be the immediate counterparts of MOSPI. It is also proposed that the project will be 
designed as a hybrid input and output-based, disbursement operation. Within the states, 
disbursements will be triggered by the achievement of agreed outputs and targets, based on 
standard costs related to the classification of states outlined below. For activities managed 
centrally by MOSPI, including project management, disbursement will be on an input basis, 
because these activities will contribute to all outputs at the state level. The project will be 
prepared as a phase of the Multi-country Statistical Capacity Building (STATCAP) adaptable 
program loan.  
 
The project will provide support to states in five areas: improving the coordination and 
management of statistical activities in the state; human resource development; developing 
statistical infrastructure; investing in physical infrastructure including IT, and improving 
statistical operations, especially operations supporting  improvement in the quality  and  the 
dissemination of statistical data (this is not limited to the core series but applies to all statistics 
produced by the state level institutions). A sixth project component will support project 
implementation within MOSPI.  
 
The overall framework for the project will be provided by the Statistical Master Plan (SMP) 
and a team under the direction of the Chief Statistician of India has been established. The SMP 
will provide the policy framework for the development of the Indian Statistical System and the 
further implementation of the 2001 NSC Report. SMP will be reviewed and approved by the 
National Statistical Commission. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) within the Ministry is 
already in place with a full time Manager of the rank of Deputy Director General.  A Steering 
Committee  has been constituted under the Secretary (Statistics and Program Implementation) 
and Chief Statistician of India to monitor the implementation of the World Bank Statistical 
Strengthening Project.  
 
It is anticipated that project activities within states will be differentiated based on the level of 
statistical development in states as determined from the Tier 1 assessment. Preliminary analysis 
indicates that states may be considered in three main categories: those with little or no statistical 
capacity, (the latest iteration on classification of states makes no mention of the recently formed 
states); those with some capacity, but facing systemic and structural problems, and those where 
basic but still inadequate capacity is in place, and where technical improvements are required in 
specific statistical operations. Each state wishing to participate in and benefit from the project 
will be assisted to prepare a State Statistical Plan and this will form the basis of an agreement or 
Page  3
memorandum of understanding with MOSPI and will be used to identify the investment 
priorities for the remainder of the project. The State plans will also set out the outputs to be 
produced and the standard costs. It is anticipated that the state statistical plans will be prepared in 
the first twelve to eighteen months of the proposed project. A particular concern will be to assist 
states to deal with manpower constraints and to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of 
statistical operations. This is likely to require that greater attention is given to making use of data 
derived from administrative processes and reducing, to some extent, the current emphasis on 
surveys, which are heavily manpower intensive.  
 
It is not possible to identify indicative costs at this stage, but it is expected that the average level 
of investment in statistical capacity in each state will be of the order of $3 to $4 million over a 
four year period. The state statistical plans will provide the opportunity to identify existing and 
potential partnerships and co-financing, especially from sector operations with specific statistical 
and data components.  
 
Alternative designs for the project that have been considered are stand-alone input-based 
disbursement investment lending and development policy lending. An input-based disbursement 
investment lending operation is considered to be more problematic for two main reasons. First, it 
would mean that it is not possible to take advantage of the simplified preparation and approval 
process already in place for STATCAP operations. Second, it will reduce the emphasis on 
results. The use of development policy lending for this operation, based on the Statistical Master 
Plan, is also thought not to be feasible because at present GOI does not consider DPL to be 
appropriate for this kind of project. If management considers this worth pursing discussions can 
be held with GOI to see if this approach is potentially feasible.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
Ministry of statistics and Program Implementation, Delhi.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Not Applicable   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Malcolm A. B. Jansen (SASDN) 
Mr Asger Christensen (SASDS) 
 
Page  4
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X  
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
C
-
Not Required 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  01/14/2008 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
No environmental issues are expected to arise as a result of implementation of the project. 
The project will not support any acquisition of land, construction of any new building, or 
major physical expansion. As no safeguard policies are triggered, this is not applicable   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Farah Zahir 
10/25/2007 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
10/27/2007 
Comments:  Environment category "C" is endorsed. E&S safeguards management oversight is 
transferred to sector - SASPR 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Dipak Dasgupta 
11/28/2007 
Comments:  approved. 
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
