Page  1
1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
Report No.: AB3706  
Project Name 
First Programmatic Statistical Strengthening Credit 
Region 
SAR 
Sector 
Central Government Administration (100%) 
Project ID 
P108489 
Borrower(s) 
Government of India 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation 
Date PID Prepared 
April 23, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 7, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
May 29, 2008 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Economic growth has been impressive in India in recent years thanks to a broad national consensus and 
progressive and steady economic reforms that have widened the sphere of private economic activity and have 
opened the economy to new sources and engines of activity, resulting in a surge in domestic savings and 
investment.  This has set the broad context of why the strengthening and modernization of the statistical system 
has now become essential. The growth rate has averaged at about 8.5 per cent in the four years through 2006/07.  
Growth has been fueled by strong investment reflecting high capacity utilization, buoyant corporate profits and 
business confidence and a rise in productivity
,
within Asia surpassed only by China. India’s economy has been 
relatively resilient in the face of heightened global uncertainties, slowing U.S. growth, and high world oil prices, 
although a somewhat slower pace of growth is expected in the wake of the recent downturn in the global economy 
which is impacting on stock-markets and capital flows.   
The government’s “inclusive growth” agenda has rightly identified as top priorities: bridging infrastructure gaps 
(through active private sector participation), ensuring access to social services, and promoting a competitive 
environment that supports private sector investment and job creation. The Government is beginning to address 
these structural constraints. Infrastructure constraints are being eased by a considerable emphasis on funding new 
public investments and by encouraging private investments within a private participation framework, as in 
telecommunications, roads, power, ports, airports, and other sectors.  Factor market constraints are also being 
addressed gradually, with a focus on creating special economic zones, whose framework is improving with 
considerable public debate and consultations, especially concerning compensation for land acquired from farmers.  
Skilled labor shortages are being addressed by a combination of newly announced schemes for expanded public 
spending on secondary education, higher education and vocational training, while the private sector is being 
encouraged to step up its role considerably.  Public services delivery continues to face enormous difficulties, 
especially in education, health and other areas, with private services the main and expanding source of 
incremental services. 
In all of these areas, a central challenge is the need for better, more reliable, timely and credible statistical 
information.  For example, the need for better price statistics is now widely recognized in public debate as central 
to measuring and managing inflation.  Similarly, better information about the pace and pattern of infrastructure 
improvements and their deficiency is again judged to be a central question. There is a recognized need for a 
credible picture of such patterns not just at an aggregate national level, but in all areas of the country. Better 
statistics are needed at all levels, including the states, districts and down to the block and village level so that 
necessary policy actions and solutions can be devised and customized to the local situation and needs.  The 
information needs extend equally to skills formation and jobs, private investment activity, land and other factor 
markets and areas. 
Page  2
2
India has a long history of development of official statistics and has one of the largest and most extensive 
statistical systems in the world.  The country is one of the pioneers in the collection and use of statistics for 
national development.  The first decades after Independence saw a major thrust on the development of the Indian 
statistical system and related research institutions.  As a result, India has long been at the forefront in the 
development of statistical methodology worldwide, especially for sample surveys, and there is a large and 
extensive statistical infrastructure.  In recent decades, however, the relative priority placed on the statistical 
system has declined, even as the role of the state itself was evolving away from central planning and towards a 
greater role for the private sector.  Other priorities also intervened, including economy-wide reforms begun in 
1991 to spur economic growth by deregulating private investment and opening the economy, and supporting a 
stepped-up pace of reforms at the level of the states. 
For a number of different reasons, since the early nineties the Indian Statistical System has found it difficult to 
keep pace with and to react to the changes taking place in the economy and society. In 1999, the Government 
established a National Statistical Commission (NSC), chaired by Dr. C Rangarajan, to examine the statistical 
system in India and to make recommendations on how it could be improved.  Following the publication of the 
Commission’s report in 2001, the Government initiated a statistical strengthening program to implement the 
Commission’s recommendations and to establish a well-coordinated statistical system that would meet the needs 
of the country in the twenty-first century.  The NSC recommendations placed primacy on statistical strengthening 
starting at the level of states, rather than on a centralized system.  Although initial reforms were begun, the 
program was partly held back because of the need to develop an implementation strategy, and partly because the 
states were not in a position to undertake the program because of other priorities, including the challenge of fiscal 
adjustment.  With success gained on the latter front, and the faster growth of the economy in the past few years, 
the Government has renewed implementation of a number of important initiatives in statistics.  This operation is 
part of a larger effort aimed at improving governance and broader public administration through a system of more 
reliable monitoring and evaluation, transparency and the publication of data. 
2.  Operation Objectives  
 
The objective of the proposed operation is to support the implementation of a government reform program to 
strengthen the state statistical systems and to integrate them more effectively into the national system.  The credit 
will focus on implementing specific recommendations of the NSC report on strengthening the administrative 
statistical system.  It will help in institutionalizing national minimum standards across states for 20 core state 
statistical activities identified in the government reform program.  These activities generate the source data for the 
most important economic and social statistics, critical for planning and policy making.  Overall, the proposed 
credit supports the implementation of the mission statement of the Indian statistical system, that is, “to provide, 
within the decentralized structure of the system, reliable, timely and credible social and economic statistics, to 
assist decision making within and outside the Government, stimulate research and promote informed debate 
relating to conditions affecting people's life”.   
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The rationale for the proposed operation is based on three main arguments
.
First, as noted above, it will support a 
program of reform which the Government of India itself has identified as a priority.  The importance of good 
statistics to provide the evidence base for socio-economic development cannot be overstated in India.  Second, it 
will support the results agenda generally and will support other development efforts at all levels and in all sectors.  
Credible and reliable statistics for the nation as a whole and at the level of states and below are an essential input 
into efforts to promote economic growth, reduce poverty and provide access to effective social services. Third, the 
credit will also support other Bank operations in India, especially in the area of monitoring and evaluation. The 
India CAS, approved by the Board on August 26, 2004, and its Progress Report, circulated to the Board in March 
2007, emphasizes the importance of measuring the Bank’s contribution to India’s achievement of its development 
goals.  Many of the indicators, especially those used for specific state operations and at the level of the overall 
assistance program, are derived from the Indian Statistical System and the outputs from individual states.  The 
need is not only to extend the coverage of the statistical system, but also ensure that it is working efficiently and 
that its products are trusted and widely used. 
Page  3
3
The operation is built on a number of important reforms introduced by the Government since 2006, in particular, 
the establishment of a permanent National Statistical Commission, the appointment of the first Chief Statistician 
of India and the presentation to Parliament of the Collection of Statistics Bill, 2007. These changes, recommended 
by the 2001 NSC Report will place the statistical system on a strong and modern legal foundation and provide 
both leadership and strategic direction. 
4. Financing 
 
Credit: SDR 73.2 million (US$120 million equivalent), payable in a single disbursement on standard IDA terms 
with 35 years maturity and 10 years of grace. 
5.  Institutional and Implementation Arrangements 
 
The proposed operation will be implemented by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation 
(MOSPI). A Steering Committee headed by the Chief Statistician of India with participation from key 
stakeholders has been established at the national level. States will participate in the program by first signing a 
Letter of Participation with MOSPI, which will commit then to a programme of reforms and institutional 
strengthening. Each state will then prepare a State Strategic Statistical Plan, which will set out a detailed medium-
term plan to implement the reforms, identifying specific milestones, targets and deliverables. Once the plan has 
been prepared states will then sign a memorandum of Understanding with MOSPI, setting out the reform program 
to be carried out and the financial and technical support to be provided by MOSPI. Each state will establish a 
steering committee to oversee the implementation of the program, to be chaired by the Chief Secretary of the 
Development Commissioner. Regular consultation between MOSPI and states will take place through the 
Conference of Central and State Statistical Organizations, which meets at least once every year. 
6.   Benefits and Risks 
 
The main 
benefits
 are expected to be more reliable, timely, and credible social and economic statistics. These in 
turn are essential to provide the information needed to: (a) monitor progress in social and economic conditions 
throughout the country; (b) enable policy-makers to measure the impact of policy wide economic policy reforms 
and specific policy initiatives in different areas of the economy; (c) strengthen the ability of States and Union 
Territories to monitor and improve their economic and social policies and customize and adapt the system to their 
own different needs in a large federal structure; and (d) improve the information needed by the private sector, 
households and individual citizens to make informed decisions and choices;. The expected benefits are thus 
central to better social and economic functioning and outcomes for a large, complex and fast growing economy. 
The credit supports a long overdue modernization process of the Indian statistical system which has very high 
rewards relative to the costs and 
risks
 involved.  It is an innovative program with big potential pay-off. However, 
there remain some significant risks, primarily related to the implementation and capacity bottlenecks in the 
specific context of a complex and decentralized statistical system in India.  While the design of the credit and the 
Government of India
’s program has risk mitigation measures directed at each of these areas, there may be some 
unforeseen residual implementation risks that will be corrected by flexible adjustments of program design and 
implementation as experience is gained in carrying out the actual reforms in a phased manner. In particular there 
are six main risks identified: (i) weak capacity for program management in MOSPI, mitigated by the oversight 
functions already in place and being developed; (ii) poor performance in states with weak capacity initially and 
too many participating states with widely varying needs and capacity, mitigated by setting up clear and 
transparent criteria that guide the eligibility and readiness of states to enroll in the program; (iii) weak 
coordination and learning outcomes, mitigated by providing for regular consultation and liaison between states 
and the center; (iv) failure of state-level DESs to implement the program because of limited capacity, mitigated by 
the involvement of senior officials in states though the steering committees; (v) lack of skilled and trained 
statistical manpower throughout the system, mitigated through support for training and improved coordination 
within states; and (vi) financial resource and fiduciary risk where implementation is delayed because of states’ 
inability to access adequate funds or procure inputs, mitigated by requiring states to set up a budget line and 
provide an adequate recurrent budget for statistical activities. 
Page  4
4
6.  Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects 
 
The proposed operation is expected to have little or no direct 
poverty or social impact
,
although it will contribute 
to improving both poverty analysis and monitoring.  The immediate beneficiary of the credit will be the state 
governments and staff of the statistical agencies.  By improving the capacity of National and State Governments 
to analyze the level of poverty and the impact of policy interventions, the credit will have an indirect impact.  A 
key requirement will be the extent to which strengthening the capacity of a state statistical system will result in 
the improved availability of data and the extent to which these data are then used for policy analysis.  The credit 
will also contribute to improvements in the investment climate and the openness and transparency of government 
generally. 
The proposed operation is not expected to have any direct environmental effects.  As a result, 
environmental 
impacts
 associated with the proposed program are not likely to be significant and none of them are expected to be 
unprecedented, sensitive, or diverse.  
7. Contact point 
 
Farah Zahir 
Graham Eele 
Title: Country Economist 
Senior Statistician 
The World Bank 
The World Bank 
70 Lodhi Estate 
1818 H Street NW 
New Delhi 110 003, India 
Washington DC 20433, USA 
Tel: (91) 11 41479 259 
Tel: (44) 1291 620529 
Email: 
Fzahir@worldbank.org
Email: Geele@worldbank.org 
8.  For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
