                                            Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                              Report No: 43361-IN



          INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                   PROGRAM DOCUMENT FOR

                 A PROPOSED LOAN IN THE AMOUNT OF US$107 MILLION

                                   TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDIA


                                               FOR THE

                             STATISTICAL STRENGTHENING LOAN




                                             April 21,2010




India Country Management Unit
Poverty, Economic Management, and Private Sector and Finance Department
South Asia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                                                EQUIVALENTS
                                         CURRENCY
                                            (As of March 24,2010)
                                         Currency Unit: Indian Rupee
                                             Rs.45.34 = US$l.OO




                 Vice President:    Isabel M. Guerrero, SARVP
               Country Director:    N. Roberto Zagha, SACIN
                 Sector Director:   Ernest0 May, SASPF and Shaida Badiee, DECDG
                Sector Manager:     Miria A. Pigato, SASPF and Misha V. Belkindas, DECDG
             Task Team Leaders:     Farah Zahir, SASPF and Graham Eele, DECDG

                             Statistical Strenptheninp Loan Team Members:
Dipak Dasgupta, Giovanna Prennushi, Tara Vishwanath, Ahmad Ahsan, Ulrich Bartsch, Monika Sharma, Kaushik
Sarkar, Pralhad Burli, Pinaki Joddar, Sapna John, Rita Soni, Jyoti Sriram (SASPF); Olga Vadimovna Shabalina,
Changqing Sun (DECDG); Deepa Sankar, Vikram Rajan, Savita Dhingra (SASHD); Pazhayannur K. Subramanian,
Arun Manuja, (SARFM); Debabrata Chakraborty, Ashish Bhateja (SARPS); Gennady Pilch, Vikram Raghavan
(LEGES); Malcolm Jansen (SASDN); Richard Roberts (Consultant, DECDG); Neha Kaul (IFC) Peer Reviewers:
Dennis Trewin. Abhiiit Sen. Neil J. Fantom

                                                    i
                                                                          FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
                         INDIA: STATISTICAL STRENGTHENING LOAN

                                             Table of Contents

     LOAN AND PR 0GRAM SUMMAR Y                                                                    1
     I. INTRODUCTION                                                                               4
     II. THE COUNTRY CONTEXT                                                                       7
       A. Recent Political and Economic Developments in India                                      7
     III. THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA'S PROGRAM TO STRENGTHENAND IMPROVE
            THE OPERATIONS OF THE NATIONAL STATISTICAL SYSTEM        9
       A. The Indian Statistical System: Gaps Identified, Major Reforms Begun and on Track         9
       Policy Area I: Coordination and Leadership of the National Statistical System              12
                    1
       Policy Area 1 : Increasing Support from the Center to the States                           15
       Policy Area 1 1 Strengthening the Capacity and Performance of State Statistical Systems-
                    1:                                                                            17
       Policy Area IV:Improving the Coverage, Quality, Timeliness and Credibility of Statistics
       Generated by States                                                                        20
     IV. BANKSUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM                                                  23
       A. Link to India's Country Strategy and Rationale for Bank Support                         23
       B. Collaboration With the IMF and Other Development Partners                               23
       C. Relationship to Other Bank Operations                                                   24
       D. Choice of Instrument and Lessons Learnt from Other Operations                           24
     V. THELOAN                                                                                   27
       A. Objectives and Expected Impact                                                          27
       B. The Government's Program of Support to States                                           30
       C. World Bank Support: Actions Already Taken and Expected Results                          31
     VI. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION                                                                   34
       A. Poverty and Social Impact                                                               34
       B. Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation                                               34
       C. Fiduciary Aspects                                                                       38
       D. Disbursement and Auditing                                                               39
       E. Environmental Aspects                                                                   40
     VII. RISKS AND MITIGATION                                                                    40
    Annex I: Letter o Policy
                     f                                                                            43
           1
    Annex 1 : Relevant Recommendations o the 2001 National Statistical Commission Report 64
                                        f
           1:
    Annex 1 1 The National Statistical Commission V S C )                                         70
    Annex IV: Conference o Central and State Statistical Organizations (COCSSO)
                          f                                                                       71
    Annex V: ISSP Steering Committee                                                              77
    Annex VI: Synthesis o the 35 Study Reports on Identifying Specific Requirements for
                         f
          Strengthening o State Statistical Systems
                         f                                                                        79


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Annex WI: The National Strategic Statistical Plan                                  84
Annex WII: ISSP - Centrally Sponsored Scheme                                      105
Annex IX: Strengthening MOSPI's Implementation Support                            106
Annex X: Letter o Participation
                 f                                                                110
Annex XI: State Strategic Statistical Plans                                       112
Annex XII: Memorandum o Understanding
                       f                                                          118
Annex XIII: Consultative and Participatory Approachfor Development o the Government
                                                                    f
      Program                                                                      121
Annex XIV: Governance and Accountability Action Plan (GAAP)                       125
Annex XV: IMF Public Information Notice                                           127
Annex XW: World Bank Portfolio and Program Indicators                             132
Annex XWII: Key Social Indicators                                                 135
Annex XIX: Macroeconomic Indicators and Outlook                                   136




                                              iii
                            LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
                                        INDIA
                          STATISTICAL STRENGTHENING LOAN

Borrower              I India
Implementing Agency    Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI), Government of
                       India (GoI)
                       IBRD Loan
                       Front-end Fee: 0.25 per cent of the loan amount
                       Terms: IBRD Flexible Loan with Variable Spread option and a total maturity of
                       30 years including a five year grace period and level repayments
                       Amount: US$107 million
Operation Type         Single tranche policy based operation
Main Policy Areas      The loan supports an institutional and policy based reform of the Government of
                       India to strengthen the statistical systems in States and Union Territories within a
                       national policy framework. A nation-wide scheme called the India Statistical
                       Strengthening Project (ISSP) has been formulated by Go1 to support state
                       statistical reforms. The four main policy areas of the reform program are: (I)
                       Strengthening the institutions of leadership and coordination of the National
                       Statistical System; (11) Improving and increasing the support provided by the
                       Central Government and the Ministry of Statistics and Programme
                       Implementation to the statistical systems of StateAJTs; (111) Strengthening the
                       capacity and performance of the statistical systems in a majority of StatesAJTs in
                       India; and (IV) Improving the coverage, quality, timeliness and credibility of
                       statistics generated by States and UTs.
Key Outcome            Overall improvement in the institutional capacity of the Indian statistical system.
Indicators             Policy Area I: Baseline: Collection of Statistics Act 2008 passed by Parliament;
                       End 2010: Rules framed under the Collection of Statistics Act 2008 prepared; By
                       2015: Rules in place and being implemented, Bill to provide a statutory basis for
                       the permanent National Statistical Commission is presented to the Parliament.
                       Policy Area 11: Baseline: Eight manuals for key statistical activities are
                       published; End 2010: A further two manuals published, five in draft. By 2015:
                       Manuals for other key statistical activities published and updated.
                       Policy Area 111: Baseline: Seven states have signed Letters of Participation to
                       participate in ISSP; End 2010: Seven states have prepared strategic plans and at
                       least three have signed MoUs with MOSPI and are implementing a program of
                       reforms; By 2015: Majority of participating states have prepared SSSPs, and
                       most of these have signed MOUs with MOSPI. Baseline: The staffing gap in
                       sanctioned professional posts (unfilled posts as a proportion of the total) is
                       estimated at 10 per cent; End 2010: Training needs in at least seven states
                       quantified and appropriate policies identified; By 2015: Staffing gap expected to
                       be reduced to less than 5 per cent.
                       Policy Area IV:Baseline: Average quality score for national statistical activities
                       in all StatesKJTs is 1.2; End 201 0: Actions to improve quality of key statistics
                       being implemented in three states and priorities and targets agreed in six more;
                       By 2015: Average quality score for participating states is 2.5. Baseline: 40% of
                       all StatesAJTs are disseminating statistics through a web-site. End 2010: 75% of
                       participating StatesAJTs disseminate through web; By 2015: 95% of
                       participating StatesAJTs disseminate statistics through web-sites.


                                               1
Program Development   The objective of the Statistical Strengthening Loan is to support a national policy
Objective and         of Go1 to reform the institutional structure and to improve the operational
Contribution to CAS   efficiency of the state statistical systems. This loan will contribute to the
                      implementation of CAS outcome I, i.e., achieving rapid inclusive growth. The
                      loan will help to improve quality and coverage of official statistics originating at
                      the state level. This will help to improve monitoring and evaluation at the state
                      level.
Risks and risk        The risk associated with the current operation is low given that all prior actions
mitigation            have been successfully implemented. While potential pay-offs are large in the
                      long term, there remain significant risks to the success of the Go1 reform
                      program especially those posed by the complex and decentralized structure of
                      the statistical system in India. The reform program, however, has risk mitigation
                      measures addressing these as detailed below. Any unforeseen residual
                      implementation risks would be corrected by flexible adjustments of program
                      design and implementation as experience is gained in carrying out the reforms in
                      a phased manner.
                               The momentum of the reform program is not maintained beyond the
                             period of the Eleventh Plan. While the Government is not yet in a
                              position to commit formally to continuation of the nation-wide scheme in
                              the Twelfth Plan period and beyond, the need to continue the reforms
                              beyond 20 12 is explicitly recognized in the National Strategic Statistical
                              Plan and the Letter of Policy. There is also recognition of the need for
                              reform and considerable momentum towards strengthening the capacity
                              of the statistical systems in many states. The risk of the program not
                              being continued beyond 20 12, therefore, is considered low.
                              Limited capacity for program management in MOSPI. This is mitigated
                              by: support from a high-level and experienced Steering Committee;
                              ensuring that senior posts in MOSPI are filled by well qualified officers;
                              support and oversight from the permanent National Statistical
                              Commission; improved management by the office of the Chief
                              Statistician of India; improved Center-State dialogue through COCSSO
                              and other institutional mechanisms; and a revamped organizational
                              structure within MOSPI.
                              Poor performance in States/UTs with weak starting capacity, too many
                              participating states with varying needs and capacity, and uncertain
                              incentives for states to persist with statistical reforms. These risks are
                              mitigated by clear and transparent criteria on the eligibility and readiness
                              of states, the high-level commitment to the nation-wide scheme
                              objectives, and performance steps for each participating state. There are
                              also in-built incentives in that StatesAJTs with better statistical
                              performance will benefit from greater citizen support and better growth
                              outcomes (enhanced by the Right to Information Act), and through
                              private investment response to better governance and information.
                              Weak coordination and learning outcomes. This risk is mitigated by: the
                              permanent NSC; the regular exchange of information through COCSSO
                              meetings; strong Go1 supervision, including close monitoring,
                              dissemination of progress; and specific provisions to strengthen
                              coordination mechanisms.
                              Failure of State/UT-level DESs to implement the ISSP because of limited
                              implementation and leadership capacity. This is mitigated by high-level
                              commitment, preparation of state specific organizational priorities,

                                              2
                                placing emphasis on DESs in the State Strategic Statistical Plans; setting
                                up high-level Steering Committees chaired by the Chief Secretary and
                                subordinate implementation groups; and supervision by MOSPI.
                                Lack of skilled and trained statistical manpower and cadre throughout
                                the system. This risk is mitigated by establishment of the National
                                Academy of Statistical Administration (NASA) and its program to
                                expand the training of trainers and regional training centers. In addition,
                                efficiency improvements will also be possible through better
                                management, reducing unnecessary staff functions and data collection
                                activities.
                                Financial Resource and Fiduciary risk because of StatesNT?s inability to
                                access adequate funds or procure inputs. To mitigate this risk, StatesNTs
                                that enroll in the program are required to commit themselves to meet the
                                recurring expenditures for statistical activities. There will also be program
                                 and financial management training, verification of standards and a
                                 continuing reporting and supervision system.
I   Operation ID Number   P 108489




                                                  3
       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                         PROGRAM DOCUMENT
                                  FOR
                  A STATISTICAL STRIGNGTHENING LOAN
                               TO INDIA


                                              I. INTRODUCTION

1. India is a pioneer in the collection and use o statistics for national development and has one o
                                                    f                                                      f
the largest and most extensive statistical systems in the world. The first decades after Independence
brought significant development of the Indian Statistical System (ISS) and related research institutions.
The Indian Statistical Institute became a pre-eminent research and training institution under the leadership
of the late Professor P. C. Mahalanobis, an internationally renowned statistician and scholar. In recent
decades, however, the Government has lessened its support of the statistical system, and its performance
has declined as policies have turned away from central planning towards greater private sector
involvement in national development. The system has increasingly been unable to respond effectively as
economic reforms, beginning in the early 1990s, opened the economy, deregulating private investment,
and devolving powers to the states?.

2. Relative success in these directions has since brought to the fore, albeit for very different reasons,
                  f
the importance o modernizing the national statistical system. First, rapid economic growth has brought
about structural change and has increased the importance of new sectors in the economy. Second, private
investment and output now occupy a larger and growing share of the national economy. Third, the role of
sub-national Governments has increased appreciably over time and much of the policy improvements
needed to sustain progress are in the realm of the states. Fourth, the recent effects of the global economic
crisis, which India is weathering successfully, have nevertheless renewed demands for better and timelier
statistical information on its impact. Given these changes, a renewed and modernized statistical system
has become essential in order to measure rapid economic and social change, monitor the effects of reform,
and to calibrate policy change both in the states and at the center. Partly in response, in 2000 the
Government of India (GoI) established a National Statistical Commission (NSC), chaired by Dr. C.
Rangarajan, to examine the statistical system in India comprehensively and to make recommendations on
how it could be improved. This was the first Commission to be established to examine the system in the
50 years since Independence.

3 . The National Statistical Commission made far-reaching recommendations in 2001. Following the
publication of the Commission?s report in 2001, Go1 has initiated a statistical strengthening program to
implement the Commission?s recommendations and to establish a well-coordinated statistical system that
will meet the needs of the country in the twenty-first century. Although initial reforms were begun, the
program was partly held back because of the need to develop an implementation strategy, and partly
because the states were not in a position to implement major reforms because of other priorities,
especially fiscal adjustment. With success gained on this front and the faster growth of the economy in
the past few years, starting in 2006, Go1 has given renewed emphasis to the implementation of a number
of important initiatives in statistics.

4. The Government has established a strong track record o progress within a sophisticated and
                                                                 f
mature process o priority-setting and reform, which augurs well for continued progress. Since 2006,
                 f
substantial progress has been made in putting in place the institutional structure required to provide for


?In this document the term ?States? refers to both states and Union Territories of India unless the context indicates
otherwise.

                                                        4
the continued development of a coherent and consistent statistical system taking into account its complex
and decentralized structure. Notable measures undertaken include:

       Establishment of a permanent and independent National Statistical Commission to provide
       leadership and accountability to the statistical system
       Creation of the post of Chief Statistician of India (CSI) to provide strategic leadership to the Indian
       statistical system
       Steps to fill long-vacant senior posts in the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation
       (MOSPI)
       A detailed assessment of the statistical capacity building needs of all 35 States and Union
       Territories
       More timely and reliable reporting of vital statistical information at the central level
       A strategic framework for the strengthening of the statistical system as a whole in the form of a
       National Strategic Statistical Plan (NSSP)
       A substantial number of states have committed themselves to strengthening their statistical
       systems in line with national requirements and the framework provided by the NSSP
       An innovative centrally sponsored scheme' to provide support to states to help them reform and
       strengthen their statistical systems has been put in place
       Efforts to improve the quality and availability of statistics are already in progress in many states,
       including more rapid dissemination of statistical series through electronic media.

      The Government's emphasis on strengthening the statistical capacity o the states reflects their
                                                                              f
importance in the federal structure o the country, as both users andproviders o data. It also derives
                                      f                                          f
directly from the 2001 NSC report, which identified structural problems and systemic weaknesses in the
state systems. Without improvements in the organization and management of the state statistical systems
and without appropriate institutional mechanisms and resources to deal with major capacity constraints, it
is unlikely that any sustained improvement in the quality and coverage of national statistics can be
achieved.

6 . The Statistical Strengthening Loan supports an institution and policy based reform o                   f
Government o India for strengthening the state statistical systems within a national policy framework.
                f
The four main policy areas which the operation supports (see the diagram below) are: (I) strengthening
the institutions of leadership and coordination of the National Statistical System - this policy area
addresses the deterioration in coordination and organizational functioning over the past few decades that
has reduced the effectiveness of the ISS; (11) improving and increasing the support from the Central
Government and the Ministry of Statistics to the statistical systems of StateLJTs - the support being
provided to states is in two main areas: first, a process to establish standards, norms and benchmarks for
key statistical activities that contribute to important national data series; and second, technical and
financial support for the implementation of the reforms; (111) strengthening the capacity and performance
of the statistical systems in a majority of StatesLJTs in India - the 2001 NSC Report noted that the failure
of the ISS stems from a deterioration in the state statistical systems as a whole, so participation of the
states in the reform program is critical and the policy area focuses on integrating the states into the
                                                                               I)
national statistical system through a centrally sponsored scheme; and ( V improving the coverage,

  Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) are specific purpose transfers fiom the Government of India (GoI) to the
States for influencing expenditure in areas which are primarily the States' constitutional responsibility. Such
schemes are formulated and, to a large extent, financed by GoI, while the responsibility for implementation primari-
ly rests with the States. The objective is to address issues of national priority with special focus on human develop-
ment, poverty alleviation and rural backwardness. The national /centrally sponsored scheme of Go1 on strengthening
state statistical systems is called the India Statistical StrengtheningProject (ISSP).



                                                       5
quality, timeliness and credibility of statistics generated by States and UTs - this policy area places
emphasis on improvements in the timeliness, coverage, accuracy, consistency and usefulness of the
statistics produced by states because the 2001 report observed that over time there has been a decline in
the quality and reliability of statistics generated by state statistical systems and data gaps and duplication
were leading to conflicting statistics and inordinate delays in transmission and publication of data.




                                                                                                            ?

                                                                                            Institutional
         report on States i
           s
          W published




                                                    participate by



7 . The Government's program of reform3, described in the NSSP and the Letter of Policy4,focuses
on institutional development and capacity strengthening to improve the quality, coverage and
timeliness of statistics generated by states. The program promotes the coherent development of the
national statistical system, while allowing states to manage both the direction and pace of reform. In
particular, the operation supports the reform and strengthening of the institutional framework at state level
with support to states being provided through the GoI's centrally sponsored scheme, entitled the India
Statistical Strengthening Project (ISSP), under the Eleventh Five-Year Plan.

8.    Bank support to the Government's program of reform is provided in the framework of a long-
term engagement. This loan has been designed as a stand-alone operation, which will be disbursed in a
single tranche once it becomes effective. It is based on a considerable period of engagement with the
Bank on statistical reform over a number of years. As set out in the NSSP and the Letter of Policy, it is
also recognized that the Government's reform program will require several years to achieve all its


3
  In this document, the term "Program"refers to the Government'sprogram of reform for the Indian Statistical Sys-
tem as a whole, the term "Project" refers to the Indian Statistical Strengthening Project, the Centrally Sponsored
Scheme being implemented to strengthen the capacity of the state statistical systems and the term "Proposed Loan"
refers to the World Bank's support to the Government's program.
  See Annex I
                                                      6
objectives. It is anticipated, therefore, that the Bank's engagement will continue in the medium term'.
The success of the Government reform program rests largely on a gradual improvement in the capacity
and performance of the state statistical systems and their increasing integration into the national statistical
system. The Government reform program recognizes that a "big bang" approach whereby all StatesLJT's
adopt reforms simultaneously is unlikely to bear fruit. A state specific, home-grown program, which gives
flexibility to states to define their priorities under a broad policy framework in phases, is an appropriate
approach. The operation, therefore, has been prepared in the context of a programmatic approach
incorporating the following:

        Learning by doing: States respond to the reform pulse at different points of time based on their
        initial conditions. Statistically advanced states make choices, adjust and make mid-course
        correction and the next set of states learn from the experiences.
        Setting models o what works: As the reforms progress, different typologies (by size, needs,
                           f
        capacities and speed of reforms and other typologies) of states may emerge. This will pave the way
        forward in setting doable models to be followed by various typologies of states.
        Phasing o states: This is central to the government reform process and includes the expectation
                   f
        that all states converge over time and catch up with the national standards.
        Deepening structural and institutional reforms: Structural changes and institution building is a
        time consuming task. A programmatic approach supports institution building and structural
        changes over the medium-term.
        Capacity building: Strengthening capacity both at the Center and state level in a phased manner
        will allow the process to expand along with institutional changes and be more durable and
        sustainable.

       The rest o this document is organized as follows. Section I1 provides the country context. Section
                 f
I11 outlines the GoI's program to strengthen and improve the operations of the national statistical system.
Section IV discusses the Bank support for this program, while Section V outlines the loan. The details of
implementation, including the fiduciary and disbursement arrangements and monitoring and evaluation
are presented in Section VI, while the risks and proposed mitigation strategies are set out in Section VII.

                                       11. THE COUNTRY CONTEXT

                                                    DEVELOPMENTS
                     A. RECENT POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC         IN INDIA

10. Following general elections in May 2009 the Indian National Congress-led United Progressive
Alliance government came to power with a strong mandate. Since the elections, the Government has
made conscious policy decisions to contain the effects of the global crisis on the Indian economy. India
has emerged as one of the first nations in the world to recover from the global crisis. The recent budget
20 10-1 1 has reinforced the inclusive growth orientation of the Government. It emphasizes restoration of
GDP growth path of 9 percent while making growth more broad based and ensuring supply-demand
imbalances are better managed. The Ele$enth Five-Year Plan (2007-2012) - with its emphasis, inter alia,
on inclusive, sustainable growth and delivery of public services - provides the overall strategic thrust for
economic policy (Box 1). Adjustments in macroeconomic management policies and targets to address the
effects of the global crisis are consistent with this framework.




' Although this DPL is being presented as a stand-alone operation, it is being defined to support a medium term
reform program in India. However, programmatic DPLs in the Bank are required to have the next operation in the
series within 24 months of the first. Nevertheless, for this operation it will not be possible to prepare the next one
within a 24 month time-frame since it needs to be defined in the context of the Twelfth Five Year Plan which is yet
to be formulated.

                                                        7
 I                                   Box 1: Eleventh Five-Year Plan (2007-2012)

     The Government of India's Plan contains 27 interlinked national targets to address the challenge of inclusive
     growth. They cover the most important constraints affecting education, health, women and children, infrastruc-
     ture, and the environment, besides the overarching issues related to income expansion and the reduction of po-
     verty and unemployment. It provides a stable framework within which policy adjustments will occur during the
     period of implementation of the proposed loan. The focus of the Plan is to maintain an average economic
     growth rate of 9 percent for the five-year period, shared broadly across income groups, especially poor house-
     holds. An average agriculture growth rate of 4 percent is considered vital to achieving the Government'spover-
     ty reduction objective of a decline in the head-count ratio of consumption poverty of 10 percentage points.

     The Government intends through its stimulus program and related policy measures to ensure that, as far as feas-
     ible, the economy remains on track to reach the Plan outcomes and deviations from the desired path are small.
 I                                                                                                                     I



11. India is coming out of the globalJirtancia1crisis. While the recovery seems firmly under way, risks
linked to uncertain global growth rates remain. After hovering around 6 percent for the previous three
quarters, Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth rose to 7.9 percent in the second quarter of the 2009/10
fiscal year (July-September 2009), before declining again to 6 percent in the third quarter (October-
December 2009) primarily due to negative growth in the agriculture sector on account of a bad monsoon
and other seasonal factors. Overall growth for 2009/10 is likely to be 7.2 percent, according to Central
Statistical Office advance estimates, largely due to strong growth in the manufacturing and services
sectors. Signs of renewed optimism are lifting the stock market. However, inflation is resurfacing because
of increasing energy and food prices.

12. The short- to medium-term outlookfor India is bright. A path to return to fiscal discipline has been
laid out with the Central Government fiscal deficit targeted at 5.5 percent of GDP in FY 2010/11, down
from an estimated 6.7 percent deficit in 2009/10. The budget for FY 2010/11 also cautiously rolls back
some of the stimulus measures adopted in the second half of FY 2008/09. In the medium-term fiscal
framework, a fiscal consolidation path has been adopted by Go1 based on the recommendations of the
13th Finance Commission. The report of the Commission envisages bringing down the fiscal deficit to 3
percent of GDP by 2013/14 and adopting an explicit ceiling for the debt-to-GDP ratio of 68 percent by
20 14- 15 from the current 76 percent.

 13. With the direction of export growth undecided, recovery has relied on domestic demand. The
Index of Industrial Production (IIP) staged a strong recovery since June 2009 and grew by an average of
 12.0 percent between June 2009 and February 2010. Much of this recovery was fuelled by consumer
durables, capital goods and intermediate goods production indicating signs of an investment revival.
However, export growth, after improving through most of 2009, began to shift downwards in December
2009 and January 2010. The decline in government consumption pushed down the overall rate of
consumption growth to only 0.9 percent in the third quarter of FY 2009/10. Private consumption also
experienced a slowdown declining to 3.4 percent in the third quarter of 2009/10 compared to 5.5 percent
in the previous quarter. In contrast, capital formation continued its robust growth, growing at 8.9 percent,
the highest rate in the last 7 quarters.

14. Inflation has been high for several weeks on account o high foodprices and the base effect of
                                                                f
low international commodity prices at the end of 2008. Inflation rates based on the Wholesale Price
Index (WPI) moved from being negative in mid-2009 to nearly 10 percent in March 2010. Consumer
Price Index based measures indicate an even higher rate of inflation between 15 and 16.5 percent. The
bulk of the increase has been on account of the rising prices of food items which have grown between 17
and 20 percent. A good winter harvest is likely to mitigate some inflationary pressures. Lately, core (non-
food, non-energy) inflation measures have also shown some increase. This raised concerns that inflation

                                                       8
could become entrenched, and the RBI continued tightening its monetary policy stance with a 25 basis
points rise in key policy rates a month ahead of its regular monetary policy review at end-April.

15. The overall balance of payments moved into surplus due to strong capital inflows in 2009/10 and
the trade balance improved. During the first three quarters of 2009/10, imports declined by 14.0 per cent
and exports also declined by 17.3 per cent. Although service exports remained the bright spot during the
global recession, the surplus in the services balance continued to deteriorate since the second quarter of
2008/09. As a result, the current account turned negative in the first two quarters of 2009/10. With
portfolio capital flows resuming after the May 2009 elections, the capital account turned positive just as
the current account dipped. In the first half of 2009/10, the capital account rebounded to the pre-crisis
level.

16. Reserve Bank of India reserves continued to grow during 2009/10 to US $279.1 billion in March
2010 from US $252 billion in March 2009. However, much of the gain was due to valuation changes as
the U.S. dollar continued to depreciate against some of the major currencies in first quarter of the fiscal
year. Similarly, India?s stock of external debt increased to $251.4 billion in December 2009, with about
half the increase due to valuation changes between the U.S. dollar and other major currencies.

17. India?s macroeconomic policy framework has been adequate to respond to the global financial
crisis and set the stage for a return to high growth rates. Monetary policy was eased significantly after
the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 with a reduction in policy rates by more than 400
basis points, and liquidity injections through lower prudential ratios and open market operations. The
fiscal policy stance was widened by 3.4 percent of GDP through tax reductions and expenditure increases
in FY2008/09 compared with the previous year, and some further expansion in 2009/10. Strength of
government demand supported GDP growth in the second half of FY2008/09, when private demand
slumped. Monetary policy tightening started in October 2009, with the return to higher prudential norms,
and continued on March 19 with a 25 basis points increase in the policy rates. The central government
budget for FY2010/11 also signals a phased return to fiscal prudence with a significant reduction in the
fiscal deficit target. Both World Bank and IMF assessments (see Annex XV) conclude that the
macroeconomic framework is appropriate.

111. THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA?S PROGRAM TO STRENGTHEN AND IMPROVE
          THE OPERATIONS OF THE NATIONAL STATISTICAL SYSTEM

                                                                    AND ON TRACK
 A. THEINDIAN STATISTICAL SYSTEM: GAPSIDENTIFIED, MAJOR REFORMS BEGUN

 18. The Indian Statistical System (ISS) has not kept pace with demands for statistical data. The ISS
has over the years built an elaborate statistical infrastructure to capture the wide variety of data generated
by a very large and decentralized economy. The Indian economy has grown rapidly and changed as a
result of an extensive economic liberalization process, which has involved growth of the private sector
and the services sector. It has experienced significant social and environmental change, and has become
more closely integrated with the rest of the world and open to the impacts of globalization.
Decentralization of governance initiated through amendments to the Constitution of India represents a
major change also in Government operations. All of these changes need to be captured by the statistical
system to provide the data needed to support effective policy and decision making at all levels. Demand
for statistical data in research, analysis, policy and decision making has grown significantly. The
recognition of the role of statistics in enhancing the transparency of Government operations has also
grown. However the two main sources of statistical data have experienced negative developments. First,
the system of statutory administrative returns and administrative records, which provide the major sources
of official statistics, has been seriously weakened for statistical purposes and second, resource and
technical limitations in respect of census and survey-based data collection, which is the other main source
of data, have emerged, particularly limitations affecting timeliness, processing and disseminating the
results of surveys, and the disaggregation of survey data to sub-state levels. Consequently the ISS has not
                                                    9
been able to keep pace with demands for statistical data in terms of timeliness, reliability, adequacy and
credibility in public perception.

19. The NSC, in 2001, identified deficiencies in the ISS.` The NSC was appointed in January 2000. It
carried out an extensive analysis of the ISS including the system of collection and dissemination of
statistics relating to different sectors of the economy. It identified the deficiencies in terms of both
administrative statistics and censuses and surveys. It noted the following deficiencies (among others) in
the ISS: a) gaps in the availability of needed information, b) delays in the publication of results, c) large
and frequent revisions of published results, d) gross discrepancies between official statistics from
different sources, and e) lack of transparency in statistical operations. Some other deficiencies relate to
absence of quality assurance such that significant sets of data throughout the States and Union Territories
(UTs) are judged to be of low or medium quality. The report also noted the absence of effective vertical
and horizontal coordination to promote efficient production of comparable statistics, inadequate technical
knowledge of staff, inadequate numbers of statistical staff in place and inadequate information and
communications technology and physical infrastructure. In addition, it was found that variations in the
capacities of the State Statistical Bureaus7 (SSBs) have had a major effect on the quality and consistency
of state and national statistics.

20. NSC made detailed recommendations on various subject areas for improving the ISS both at the
national and state levels. The NSC submitted its report to the Prime Minister on September 5, 2001 in
two volumes. The NSC adopted a five-pronged approach to bring about improvements and identified the
following priorities: (i) reform in the administrative structure of the ISS so as to ensure its autonomy and
simultaneously upgrade its infrastructure so as to allow it to play a more effective role; (ii) improvement
of the system of collection of data in relation to data that are currently being generated; (iii) exploration of
alternative techniques in relation to the existing statistics since the present system for collecting data was
under considerable strain; (iv) identification of new data series that would need to be generated to keep
pace with the expanding and changing economy; and (v) evolution of appropriate methodologies for
collection of data in relation to the new data requirements. Recommendations were made on individual
subjects aimed at stemming the deterioration in the administrative statistical system and to improve it
over time, and to improve the survey and data processing capacity of the system (see Box 2). Out of 623
recommendations, MOSPI, the apex statistical body, was responsible for 276; the remaining 347
recommendations were the responsibility of different Line Ministries or State Government Departments.
Specifically, the NSC Report made recommendations relating to the establishment of a permanent
National Statistical Commission, senior posts at the center of the ISS (Chief Statistician of India and
Director General of the Central Statistical Office), a revival or strengthening of the established
institutional mechanisms of vertical coordination, strengthening the lateral coordination role of the CSO,
and a number of guidelines for improving the State Statistical Systems (SSS) (see Annex I1 for a list of
the relevant NSC recommendations).

21. Following the publication of the NSC Report there was some delay in implementing the
recommendations. Implementation of the recommendations of the NSC Report began in earnest in 2006
after a gap of almost five years although some actions had been taken earlier to address some technical
concerns. The main reason for the delay was the need to address a number of pressing national concerns
that had emerged in the period from 2001 to 2006. One was a slowdown in the Indian economy; another
was the process of fiscal adjustment that was underway in states following the award of the 5`h Pay
Commission. In these circumstances, statistical development had a relatively low priority; instead, fiscal
and governance reforms occupied the center stage of policy concerns. By 2004/05, however, most states
had started showing signs of a turnaround in their financial position with the resumption of robust growth.

6
  Rangarajan, C. (200 1) `National Statistical Commission: An Overview of the Recommendations' Economic and
Political Weekly, October 20,200 1, Mumbai.
' The term State Statistical Bureau was used in the NSC 2001 Report. In most states, the statistical agency is current-
ly the Directorate of Economics and Statistics (DES), although in some States and UTs different names are used.
                                                       10
22. Since 2006, policy attention has again turned to the modernization o the ISS. Given the economic
                                                                              f
and social changes since the publication of the NSC report, the increasing demands for statistics and the
role of statistics in transparent governance, by 2006 the importance of timely, reliable, adequate and
credible statistics had become critical. There was increasing recognition in Government at all levels that
further fiscal and governance reforms rested, inter alia, on making the statistical system more responsive
and transparent. Recognizing the importance of these developments, Go1 and the State Governments
judged this to be an opportune time to strengthen the ISS, starting at the base of the system, namely the
states. Implementing the recommendations of the NSC report on modernizing the statistical system is
seen by the Go1 as an integral part of the new efforts directed at statistical development. The decision to
act now is also supported by the fact that in the period since the publication of the NSC Report, a number
of important preparatory activities have been completed including, most importantly, an assessment of the
statistical capacities and needs of all 35 States/UTs in India, (see Annex VI) and four studies on technical
issues critical to the planned statistical development (see Table 2 in Section IV, paragraph 90).


                                    Box 2. Deficiencies in Official Statistics
 In many respects, the India statistical system has substantial technical capacity, but has suffered from a lack of
 "effectivecoordination either horizontally among the different departments at the Center or vertically between
 the Center and the States". The 2001 Report also concluded that the fact that "there is no statistics policy-
 making body or authority for evolving a national statistical strategy" was also a major concern. The impact of
 these problems can be seen in a number of different areas, one example is labor and employment statistics.
 Labor and employment statistics have been collected by a number of different agencies, including the NSSO and
 the Ministry of Labor through the States. The NSC Report concluded that the system was unable to respond to
 increasing demand for information on the fast-changing composition of the labor market and major reforms were
 required. For example, "the data collected by Ministry of Labor through States suffer from verypoor response in
 submission of returns, delays in filing the returns, poor quality, under coverage and time lag in publication of
 results". The Commission concluded that the "the problems are largely administrative in nature" requiring ac-
 tion to set national standards, improve coordination and management, strengthen the capacity of States to collect
 and compile data, reduce the burden on data respondents and to strengthen links between statistical agencies
 within States, between the Ministry of Labor and States and between the CSO and the Ministry at the Center.
 Source: 2001 Report of the National Statistical Commission

 23. The ISS is highly decentralized and is dependent on the effective operation o the State Statistical
                                                                                       f
Systems. The state statistical systems contribute to national statistics in two ways: first, they collect,
compile and disseminate statistics about the state for decision making and planning by the State
Government and other users; and second, they provide the data needed at the Center to compile national
statistics. By and large the flow of statistical information emanates from the states to the Center except in
cases where the state level operations are an integral part of centrally sponsored schemes (CSS) or data
are collected through national sample surveys and other similar nation-wide programs. This means that
the ISS is largely built upwards from village to block to district to State Government department and from
state departments to the corresponding ministries and the CSO at the center. These two areas of
contribution by the SSS represent a significant part of the activity of the ISS. The efficacy of the ISS
therefore, to a large extent, depends upon the operational efficiency of the SSS.

24. The Government reform program and especially the design o the Centrally Sponsored Scheme
                                                                  f
has been based on extensive consultation with states and other stakeholders, described in more detail
in Annex N I I . In summary the consultation process has included: a detailed study to identify the
requirements to strengthen state statistical systems; a number of national workshops; extensive
discussions under the auspices of the Conference of Central and State Statistical Organizations; and
detailed consultations with individual State and UT Governments.



                                                       11
25. The Government reform program focuses on four key policy areas derived from the
recommendations of the 2001 NSC Report. The four policy areas are as follows.

    POLICY AREA COORDINATION AND LEADERSHIP THE NATIONAL
               I:                        OF            STATISTICAL SYSTEM

26. Recommendations in the NSC 2001 Report on coordination and leadership of the ISS have been
implemented. The first policy area addresses the deterioration in coordination and organizational
functioning over the past few decades that has reduced the effectiveness of the ISS.

Actions Taken

27. GoI has taken action to strengthen the leadership and strategic direction of the ISS. Key actions
that have been taken in the past few years started with the setting up of the National Statistical
Commission in 1999 and the publication of its report in August 2001. Important decisions by Go1 since
the report was published include: (i) setting up the permanent National Statistical Commission and
nominating its Chairman and members in June 2006; (ii) filling the post of the Director General of the
CSO, which had remained unfilled for almost 9 years; and (iii) appointment of the first Chief Statistician
of India. Both the establishment of the permanent NSC as well as the provision of technical and
professional leadership in MOSPI has provided a strong professional leadership mechanism for the ISS as
well as important interlocutors for the Bank.

28. A National Strategic Statistical Plan (NSSP) was prepared in 2008 to underpin the reform
program for the ISS. The NSSP sets out the policy framework for the development of the ISS as a whole
for the period of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan 2007/08-2011/12 and beyond, with special attention to the
development of the state statistical systems. It builds upon existing national strategies including the NSC
Report 2001 and the National Policy on Dissemination of Statistical Data (1999). It also builds on
improvements already underway, including: Plan Schemes in operation for the improvement of the
quality; coverage and timeliness of statistics in fields such as National and State Accounts and other
areas; strengthening the NSSO; the National Academy of Statistical Administration (NASA); and other
schemes. It also takes into account the capabilities of the ISS including the state systems. It incorporates
the United Nations Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics as endorsed in 1994 by the United
Nations Statistical Commission (See Annex VII).

29. The NSSP has been developed and has been endorsed by StatesLJTs and approved by the
permanent NSC. The NSSP was developed with stakeholder participation including the States and UTs
and was endorsed by them in a National Workshop held in Delhi on April 7, 2008, following an earlier
Workshop in December 10, 2007 to initiate the preparation process. It was formally approved by the
permanent NSC in April 2008 and the Minister of State for Statistics and Programme Implementation in
June 2008. It was launched by the Honorable Prime Minister on September 9,2008.

30. The NSSP includes an extended Mission Statement and sets out goals for the ISS as a whole. It
provides for an independent National Statistical Organization with the Chief Statistician of India as its
head and sets out a medium-term strategy for developing a coherent and consistent system of data
collection, analysis and dissemination at all levels of the decentralized system. The objective is to ensure
that official statistics meet the needs for data at all levels of aggregation from national down to the sub-
state level and also to ensure that the data generated at different levels are comparable both across time
and space. In short the strategy is aimed at producing reliable, timely and credible social and economic
statistics within the decentralized structure of the ISS. There are two parts to the NSSP; the first provides
an overview of the ISS, recognizing the growing demand for statistics and the system's strengths and
weaknesses. It lists the steps taken so far in implementing the recommendations of the NSC Report and
other actions taken, and outlines how the central agency visualizes its role in strengthening the overall
system in particular through coordination and through development of statistical standards and


                                                   12
methodologies. The second part deals with strengthening the state statistical system through the ISSP and
is reflected in the Letter of Policy (Annex I).

3 1. GoI has taken action to strengthen the legal and institutionalframework for statistical activities at
all levels. The permanent NSC has been constituted through a Government of India Resolution effective
June 2005, as an independent nodal body for the ISS with responsibility for policy-making, technical
development, coordination, audit, monitoring and review. The permanent NSC assumed charge in 2006
and now serves as the nodal and empowered body for all core statistical activities in the country. Its
functions include (among others): identifying core statistics which are of national importance; evolving
national policies and priorities relating to the statistical system; evolving standard statistical concepts,
definitions, classifications and methodologies in different areas of statistics and laying down national
quality standards for core statistics; evolving national strategies for the collection, tabulation and
dissemination of core statistics; exercising statistical coordination; and exercising statistical audit to
ensure quality and integrity of statistical products'.

32. The Collection of Statistics Act 2008 was passed by Parliament in December 2008 and assented to
by the President on January 9, 2009. This Act replaces the Collection of Statistics Act 1953 and was
prepared as a response to a specific NSC recommendation. It provides state and sub-state levels of
Government with sufficient authority for statistical activities and allows for improved sources of
statistical information, more efficient statistical methods and improved coordination. In addition to
ensuring the reliability of statistics and the efficiency of operations, the Act takes into account informants'
rights to privacy and allows researchers reasonable and adequate access to data. It provides a legal
framework for strengthening the administrative record keeping system. It is expected that much of the
data that is presently collected through surveys and personal visits will be shifted to a return based system
once the capacity of the state Governments to perform the monitoring and follow up action is sufficiently
strengthened. The Act provides the basis for improving the compliance on administrative return-based
statistics at the state and sub-state level, while protecting the integrity and confidentiality of records.

33. GoI has put in place a number of reforms and taken action to improve the operational efficiency
of a decentralized statistical system and to improve coordination between the Center and StatesLJTs.
Go1 has formulated a nation-wide scheme (ISSP) to support the reform and institutional strengthening of
state statistical systems. The total allocation by Go1 to the nation-wide scheme is Rs 650.43 crores
(US$135.5 million) for the remaining period of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan. The primary objective of the
scheme is to assist states to improve their statistical systems within a coordinated national framework. In
India large centrally sponsored schemes with budgets greater than Rs 150 crores ( U S 3 3 million) require
the approval of the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), a high level decision making body.
The nation-wide scheme (ISSP) was approved by CCEA in March, 2010.

34. A high-level Steering Committee has been set up under the Chairmanship of the CSI at the central
level to manage the implementation of ISSP. A high-level Steering Committee was instituted in
September 2008 to monitor implementation of the ISSP. This is the main governance structure for the
ISSP. The Committee first met in May 2009 (see Annex V).

35. The Conference of Central and State Statistical Organizations (COCSSO) has been revived and
strengthened. COCSSO's objective is to strengthen the institutional coordination of statistical activities
between MOSPI, other central ministries and state statistical organizations. COCSSO plays a crucial role
and has important functions which are critical to the success of the reform program: (i) to provide a
platform for discussion on the statistical issues of comnion interest to the Central and the State Statistical
Organizations; (ii) to provide an overall perspective to the development of statistical system and to make
recommendations/suggestions on issues having bearing on the development of the statistical system; (iii)
to solve the technical issues relating to statistics; (iv) to set up `working groups' on specific issuedtasks

* The detailed functions of the NSC are set out in Annex I11
                                                       13
relating to official statistics; (v) to provide guidelines in the collection of statistics and maintenance of
statistical standards and quality as well as uniformity in statistical standards; (vi) to consider an Action
Taken Report which covers the action taken on the recommendations of previous meetings; and (vii) to
review the role of the Senior Statistical OfficersDDGs in the central and state Governments. Given the
important role of COCSSO in strengthening the institutional framework at the state level, having ISSP as
a permanent agenda item in COCSSO meetings, will reinforce close follow-up and timely assistance to
states on the nation-wide scheme (ISSP). COCSSO, chaired by the CSI, is now organized every year
since 2007. The Standing Committee of the COCSS09 meets twice a year to follow up on previous
meetings and to set the agenda for the next meeting.

Medium Term Plans

36. GoI will continue to maintain an appropriate policy framework and ensure that there is a clear
vision and strategy for the continued development and improvement o the ISS. Go1 intends to continue
                                                                       f
to strengthen the functioning of the NSC and MOSPI and deepen them institutionally within the broad
policy framework set out in the NSSP. The permanent NSC together with MOSPI and CSI will continue
to develop, monitor and enforce statistical priorities and standards. Organizational improvements of the
CSO will continue.

37. The NSSP will be reviewed and updated to take into account structural changes and a report on
actions taken will be prepared and disseminated. The NSSP will be formally reviewed and updated, if
required, every 3 years to take into account the progress that has been achieved and structural changes in
the ISS. An Action Taken Report will also be prepared and disseminated.

38. Rules framed under the Collection o Statistics Act 2008 will be put into effect. These rules will
                                               f
cover a number of areas including: the disclosure of statistical information in some cases and restrictions
in its use; the terms and conditions under which persons and agencies may be engaged to support the
collection of statistics; the principles for setting out the forms and manner in which information may be
required to be provided; the principles governing access to documents; and other relevant concerns.

39. A Bill to provide a statutory basis for the permanent NSC will be prepared, and presented to
Parliament. As indicated above the permanent NSC was established by Government Order in 2005 and
was fully constituted in 2006. The 2001 NSC report recommended that the Commission should have a
statutory legal basis and this will be provided by a Bill that will be drafted and presented to Parliament.

40. A further assessment o the capacity and needs o the state statistical systems once the program
                             f                           f
has matured will be completed and overseen by the NSC. The Government will continue its
commitment to improve statistical systems and to strengthen coordination with the states. As part of this
process, a second detailed assessment of the capacities and needs of the statistical systems in all 35 States
and UTs will be completed within the next five years. This assessment will be overseen by the permanent
NSC and will update the assessment completed in 2007; it will provide an important means of
determining what progress has been made since the 2007 baseline.

4 1. Progress with the implementation o ISSP will be monitored through the High-level Steering
                                          f
Committee and followed up through COCSSO. The high-level Steering Committee will review progress
with ISSP based on reports from states and will identify areas where action is required. This process will
be coordinated with the Bank's implementation support plan, which is described in more detail in Section
VI and Annex IX.COCSSO will also remain an important mechanism for monitoring progress, for
identifying issues and for exchanging information between the center and states. It is expected that the
World Bank will be invited to attend COCSSO meetings whenever ISSP is discussed.


 See Annex IV
                                                   14
              POLICY AREA11: INCREASING SUPPORT FROM THE CENTER TO THE STATES

42. The support being provided by MOSPI to states is in two main areas: first, a process to establish
standards, norms and benchmarks for key statistical activities that contribute to important national data
series is ongoing; and second, technical and financial resources from the Center to states will be provided
to support the implementation of the reforms.

Actions Taken

43. The CSO has developed national standards for key statistical activities. The importance of "core"
statistics and the need for standards to ensure consistency and to guarantee their quality was identified in
the 2001 NSC Report. The NSC defined "core" statistics to be those that are critical to the functioning of
the national economy and government. The study of states' capacities and needs completed as part of
earlier analytical work (see paragraph 90) identified an initial set of 20 key statistical activities" (see Box
3) and each state was assessed on the extent it was able to undertake these activities and comply with
national requirements. While the formal specification and definition of "core" statistics rests with the
permanent National Statistical Commission, there is a close relationship between key data collection and
compilation activities and the "core" statistics needed for the national economy and Government. For the
time being, therefore, the key activities are seen as representing the main priorities for states and
improving their coverage, reliability, timeliness and usefulness is one of the main objectives of ISSP.

                                     Box 3. Key Statistical Activities in States
 MOSPI has defined a set of 20 key statistical activities for the purposes of the 2007 assessment of State statistical
 systems. These activities are not exactly the same as the Core Statistics discussed in the 2001 NSC Report, but
 they do generate the source data for the most important economic and social indicators. They represent the set of
 activities that any modem statistical system in a state will need to carry out on a regular basis.
 The 20 statistical activities can be grouped together under four main headings:
 0   Economic, financial and price statistics (7 activities)
     Production and labor market statistics (6 activities)
 0   Social, environmental and demographic statistics (5 activities)
 0   Other activities (2 activities - participation in the national sample survey and generation of statistics for local
     area planning)

44. A collaborative approach has been adopted for the development of national standards for different
sets o statistics. In the ISS the responsibility for collection, compilation and dissemination of a wide
      f
range of statistics rests with line ministries which operate closely with and through their counterpart
departments in the states. Consequently, statistical standards and methodologies need to be set for the
states to follow if they are to generate consistent and comparable data. The development of the standards
needs to be a collaborative exercise involving the CSO, which is the nodal central agency for developing
standards, the line ministries and the concerned state line departments and Departments of Economics and
Statistics (DES). The standards have been developed by CSO in the form of manuals on methods and
procedures which have been published on the MOSPI web-site. Eight manuals on key statistical activities
have been prepared and placed on the MOSPI web-site. Two more are in draft and are expected to be
finalized within the next two to three months.

45. In addition to financial support, MOSPI has established the necessary institutional capacity to
support the reforms at the state level. An experienced team of senior officers" has been formed to
provide overall guidance on technical issues and help states to overcome problems while planning and

loSee Annex VII, Table B
"The team of senior officers is called the Project Support Group (PSG). See details in Annex IX.
                                                        15
implementing the reform program. It provides strong implementation support, ensures the strengthening
of national and regional training, provides capacity building support to states, and carries out monitoring
and evaluation of the ISSP. This Group is chaired by the Director-General, CSO and assisted by a team
consisting of three Additional Directors-General (ADGs), two Deputy Directors-General (DDGs), five
Directors and the DDGs based in the states. One of the DDGs has been appointed as Project Manager and
a second DDG is responsible for managing the dialogue and coordination with states and organizing the
technical support. A detailed work program has been mapped out for each member of the team with their
roles and responsibilities. The PSG includes technical experts in respective fields (Technical Advisory
Group) and a Financial Support Team to provide timely assistance to states on issues such as the
preparation of the SSSPS'~.The Project Support Group has been working closely with the states on the
process of preparing and signing Letters of Participation and organizing workshops on ISSP.

46. In the process of implementation of the recommendations of the 2001 NSC Report, senior
statistical officers of the central Government have been posted in line ministries and in states. The
statistical officers in the line ministries are responsible for the professional integrity of the statistical
activities carried out by the concerned ministries/departments and while doing so they are expected to
also work closely with the PSG and the high-level Steering Committee. They also improve the
mechanism and efficacy of lateral coordination at the Center and vertical coordination with the states on
statistical matters. At the state level, senior statistical officers at the center, posted in states and working
with the National Sample Survey Office, have been given additional responsibilities in June 2009 to
support the implementation of ISSP.

47. Action has been taken to improve the dissemination and exchange of information with states
through the MOSPI web-site. The MOSPI web-site has been upgraded and expanded and now provides
access to information related to the implementation of ISSP13. The ISSP web-pages, for example, include
the NSSP, the proceedings of recent workshops, the 35 State Reports and the Synthesis Report and other
relevant information. They are updated on a regular basis.

Medium Term Plans

48. MOSPI will continue to develop statistical standards and to assist states and other parts of the ISS
to implement them. The ongoing work on developing and publishing standards and data collection
methodologies for each of the key statistical activities will continue and MOSPI is committed to
completing this entire process, with guidance and review by the NSC as appropriate, within the next 36
months. It is anticipated that the list of key activities and the core statistics they generate will, from time
to time, be expanded and modified, in line with the changing demand for statistics as well as international
recommendations.

49. MOSPI will disburse the allocated funds for the ISSP as needed, according to the plan and in
agreement with the states. The basis for distributing financial and technical support to states for the
remainder of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan is set out in the approved Go1 plans for ISSP.

50. MOSPI will continue to strengthen the Project Support Group as required. The Project Support
Group will help the states in formulating their strategic plans and implementing their detailed
implementation plans in the medium-term. As the plans proceed and disbursements to states increase the
Technical Advisory Group and the Financial Support Team within the PSG will be further strengthened.

5 1. Senior GoI statistical officers posted in the line ministries and in the states will continue to play an
important role. The DDGs will continue to promote professional integrity of statistical activities and


     See Annex IX
l3   UFU: http://mospi.nic.in

                                                    16
coordination. In particular they will provide advice and support to the relevant state departments as each
State or UT prepares and implements its strategic statistical plan.

5 2 . The ISSP web-pages will be updated regularly with progress reports, guidelines, training
curricula, and other materials pertaining to ISSP. The web- pages will become an important medium of
exchange of information on the states that are participating in the ISSP. The web-pages will provide a
forum for states to share their experiences and to learn from each other's initiatives.

     POLICY AREA1 1 STRENGTHENING THE CAPACITY AND PERFORMANCE OF STATE STATISTICAL
                 1:
                                                    SYSTEMS

53. The 2001 NSC Report noted that the failure of the ISS stems from a deterioration in the state
statistical systems as a whole, so participation of the states in the reform program is critical. The
Report also noted that attempts at revamping the statistical system in isolation without improvement in
                                                                                      A
the State and UT Governments' administrative systems would not be su~cessful'~. number of agencies
collect large amounts of data, but these are often not tabulated due to a lack of computing resources. The
statistical set-up below the district level is often too weak to generate organized data at lower
administrative levels, although there is a requirement for such data for local planning and service
delivery. There is lack of connectivity and linkage between one level and another and also between the
various sub- system^'^. There is inadequate infrastructure and staff for statistical work. There is a lack of
ICT available for compilation, processing and dissemination of data produced by different agencies.
There is also considerable disparity in the level of development of the state systems, with some states
having fairly well developed systems, while there are others where the systems are very weak. The state
statistical systems need urgent attention in terms of capacity building especially at the sub-state level to
function better at a more decentralized level and, at the same time, become more responsive to the needs
of the public. In respect of performance, there are major deficiencies of data, which can be largely
attributed to the near collapse of the Administrative Statistical System16. The deficiencies common to all
the sectors include: poor quality of data; long delays in dissemination; lack of effective checks;
incomplete coverage; poor implementation of provisions of Acts and low priority and general apathy to
statistical activities.

Actions Taken

54. In order to better understand the current statistical capacity and needs in the states, individual
detailed assessments have been undertaken in each of the 35 States and Union Territories. A detailed                .
study in consultation with states/UTs identifying Specific Requirements for Strengthening of State
Statistical Bureaus was completed in 2007 as part of the preparation for the reform program. The
Synthesis Report summarizing the findings from these 35 studies was completed in 2008 following a
national workshop. As already indicated, the study defined an initial set of 20 key statistical activities and
each state was assessed on the extent it was able to undertake these activities and comply with national
requirements and the quality of the resulting data. The reports include recommendations on improving the
statistical capacity and performance of each state. All 35 comprehensive States and UTs specific reports
were prepared and discussed with the States/UTs and have been widely distributed; they provide a
baseline for monitoring progress under the ISSP.

55. For analytical purposes States/UTs have been grouped and classijied into three different
categories (see Box 4), depending on their statistical capacity. The grouping is based on an assessment

l4 Paragraph 14.6.6 of the NSC Report, 2001
l5 `Study for Identifying the Specific Requirements of Strengthening of SSBs', Ministry of Statistics and Program
Implementation, June 2007, see Annex VI.
16
   Rangarajan, C. (200 1) `National Statistical Commission: An Overview of the Recommendations' Economic and
Political Weekly, October 20,200 1, Mumbai.
                                                      17
of State and UT statistical capability, which was made on the basis of whether they participated in the
National Sample Survey (NSS) rounds, and the extent of their processing and dissemination of the results
of those rounds. This reflects the situation that the current system is heavily based on surveys. The
classification is useful in identifying similarities and differences across the 35 States and UTs in terms of
their capacities, performance in relation to standards, and statistical operations and for making
recommendations on actions to improve capacity.

56. A substantial number o State and UT Governments have committed to improving their statistical
                              f
systems by signing Letters o Participation in ISSP. The design of ISSP, as well as the contents of the
                              f
Letter of Participation, was discussed with state representatives at national workshops in April 2008 and
January 2009. Following the April 2008 meeting letters were sent by MOSPI to the Chief Secretaries or
Administrators of all States and Union Territories, inviting them to sign LOPs (see Annex X).

     Box 4. Classification of States into Capacity Categories
     For the purposes of simplifying the analysis, the State Specific Report classifies States into three main catego-
     ries, based on the extent to which the State participates in the national sample survey. The three categories are as
     follows:
     0   Category I (Statistically Least Advanced): States that have not participated in recent rounds of the National
         Sample Survey (NSS). 3 States.
     0   Category I1 (Statistically Moderately Advanced): States that have participated in recent rounds of the NSS,
         but which have not tabulated the results. 12 States.
         Category I11 (Statistically Most Advanced): States that have participated h l l y in recent rounds of the NSS
         and which have tabulated the results. 20 States.


                              f
57. A significant number o states have initiated the process o preparing state strategic statistical
                                                                     f
plans (SSSP). By signing the LOPs, State and UT Governments indicate their willingness to participate in
ISSP, to carry out a number of reforms and policy decisions and to prepare an SSSP. Those Governments
that have signed the LOP have also undertaken to subscribe to the vision and policy framework set out in
the NSSP, to designate a nodal agency for statistical matters in the state, to designate a nodal point for the
purposes of ISSP and to establish a high-level Steering Committee in the state. As of July 15, 2009, at
least 29 States and UT Governments have designated their Directorates of Economics and Statistics
(DES), or the equivalent agency, as the "nodal agency" for coordinating statistical activities, in line with a
specific recommendation of the NSC 2001 Report. In addition, at least 18 of these states have initiated
other actions including the identification of the ISSP contact point and the set up of steering committees
(see Annex XI).

58. A baseline assessment o potential staffing gap and identijication o low priority tasks in states
                                 f                                           f
has been completed The 35 State and UT Reports assessed staffing levels and needs for staff training
and development. Staff shortages are a much greater problem for states with more limited statistical
capacity, but are a concern for many states. While large increases in staff numbers will not be possible in
most cases, actions have been taken and will be continued to improve skills and to make it easier for staff
to switch from one task to another. A particular concern of the SSSP will be to identify low priority tasks
and to identify how staff can be switched from areas of low priority to more pressing tasks. The 16`h
COCSSO discussed the pi`oblem of manpower shortages, including that in states and identified a number
of strategies that states could adopt17.

59. MOSPI has set up the National Academy o Statistical Administration (NASA) as a national
                                                   f
statistical training institute providing on-the job training and research in official statistics. The
National Academy of Statistical Administration was inaugurated in February 2009. It will play the
predominant role in addressing the main gaps in training provision for the ISS as a whole. In particular,

17
     See Annex IV

                                                          18
NASA is responsible for the development of curricula and training material, the development of courses
and the training of trainers. In-service training has been provided to states in a number of areas recently,
including national accounts and the national sample survey.

Medium Term Plans

60. Over the next 12 to 18 months, it is expected that a majority o participating states will complete
                                                                        f
their SSSPs and subsequently will sign Memorandums o Understanding (MoUs) with MOSPI. The
                                                                f
SSSPs will be based on the assessment that has already been completed (updated as necessary) as well as
the targets and goals agreed for the ISS as a whole. In particular, the SSSPs will set medium-term goals
for the state statistical system within the time frame of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan. They will also
outline an agreed implementation process with a sequenced set of reforms and other measures to improve
the quality and dissemination of official statistics in the state and to promote their use for planning and
decision making. The SSSP will be the result of a consensus building process within the state, based on
consultation with all the main data providers and users, including representatives of data users outside
Government. Based on the assessment of needs and capacities, the SSSPs will set realistic goals,
determine priorities, especially for the use of the scarcest resources, set appropriate targets for the
medium to longer term and set out mechanisms on how progress is to be measured The plans will
indicate what needs to be done to strengthen the management and coordination of the SSS, what measures
need to be taken to build and develop human resources, what technical and methodological improvements
are needed to current statistical operations and practices and what investments in both physical and
statistical infrastructure are needed to put these into effect". The preparation of SSSPs and the process to
support implementation through the MoUs is in line with international good practice on statistical
development and capacity building.

6 1 Participating states will set up High-level Steering Committeesfor ISSP. These high-level steering
  I




committees will guide, direct, supervise and monitor the preparation of the SSSP and the implementation
of the MoU. They will normally be chaired by the Chief Secretary and include representatives from the
main stakeholders. The MOSPI DDG posted in the state will also be a member.

62. States will be expected to continue to develop and strengthen the role o the DES, or an alternative
                                                                               f
nodal agency, to ensure that it can play an effective leadership role. There are potentially a number of
different mechanisms that could be set up to improve the coordination of statistical activities in a state and
each state will decide on which mechanisms are best suited to local circumstances. Possible actions
include: upgrading the status of the DES to that of 9 Department; establishing a coordination committee;
setting up and reviving committees on the core statistics; empowering the DES to review data collection
activities; and promoting the use of common definitions, nomenclatures and classification schemes.
Whatever mechanisms are proposed, they will need to: (i) avoid duplication of statistical activities and the
public dissemination of different estimates for the same variable or series; (ii) support the compilation of
databases with information from a number of different sources; (iii) help to avoid gaps in data coverage,
especially in areas that may cut across departmental responsibilities; (iv) make more efficient use of
resources, especially scarce skilled manpower in areas such as ICT, survey design and analysis; and (v)
ensure that the overall statistical program is in line with the needs of data users. Following the
recommendations of the 16" COCSSO, states will be able to follow a model notification for declaring the
DES as a nodal statistical agency.

6 3 . The MoU will be an operational document laying out an agreed program f o r (a) the detailed
implementation o the SSSP which will reflect statistical priorities o both the state and the center and
                 f                                                   f
(b) the resources that will be made available by MOSPI and the state. In return for both financial and
technical support from MOSPI, states will agree to improve the coverage, quality, timeliness and
credibility of their official statistics. The MoU will commit the state to a medium-term strategic

'*See Annex XI
                                                   19
framework setting out agreed outcomes and an implementation plan. The MoU will include specific
targets, milestones and progress indicators. It will commit the state to providing the recurrent resources
needed to maintain the state statistical system, and will specify how, at what level and in what time-frame
budget and technical support from MOSPI will be made available to the state. The MOSPI support will be
in agreed disbursements against the agreed targets, milestones and progress indicators".

64. The state nodal agencies will be required to prepare regular reports on the progress of the reform
and capacity strengthening program. They will define the results and the indicators that will be
monitored. It is expected that as implementation proceeds, actions will be taken if performance is not
considered satisfactory. At present the state statistical systems are accountable to MOSPI for activities
that are carried out by the DES, or to the central ministries where state departments such as education,
health and agriculture have responsibility. While there will continue to be a technical relationship
vertically, in order to give some coherence to the concept of the SSS as a whole, each state will be
encouraged to prepare and update an annual report on their state statistics, which will be submitted to the
State Government and will then be published. This report will describe the activities of the SSS, identify
progress against agreed milestones and targets and set out specific problems and concerns. In particular,
the report will indicate the extent to which the different components of the SSS comply with the standards
and benchmarks set by CSO. Regular reports on the implementation of the MoU will also be provided by
the state nodal agency to MOSPI.

65. Training will be provided in line with the needs of states. Manpower and the availability of the
skills needed to manage and operate an effective and efficient statistical system have already been
identified as major constraints in many states. The SSSPs will address these issues in more detail and will
include a detailed training needs assessment as well as the development of appropriate human resource
development strategies and training plans. It is expected that a key component of these strategies will be
the need to increase efficiency by training staff so that they can take on new tasks. States will also
consider other strategies, including outsourcing, where appropriate, and developing partnerships with
other relevant institutions.

66. Regional statistical training institutions will be established and strengthened with the support of
NASA. The initial assessment of training needs has indicated that the needs of states are extensive. More
detailed information will emerge as the SSSPs are prepared, but it is envisaged that the amount of training
required will be extensive. It is already acknowledged that NASA will be unable to meet this need alone
and MOSPI is already preparing plans, in collaboration with the states, to establish and strengthen
regional statistical training institutions. NASA will provide support to this process through the
development of curricula and training material and through an on-going training of trainers program.

       POLICY AREA   m:IMPROVING THE COVERAGE, QUALITY,
                                                     TIMELINESS CREDIBILITY OF
                                                             AND
                                   STATISTICS GENERATED STATES
                                                      BY

67. The performance of state statistical systems will be determined by the quality and usefulness of the
statistics that they generate and disseminate. The NSC in 2001 and subsequent Bank work in
consultation with MOSPI and States in 2007 and 2008 demonstrated that there had been a decline in the
quality and reliability of statistics generated by state statistical systems and that there were other problems
such as data gaps, duplication leading to conflicting statistics and inordinate delays in transmission and
publication of data. The success of ISSP, therefore, will ultimately be determined by the extent to which it
results in improvements in the timeliness, coverage, accuracy, consistency and usefulness of the statistics
produced by states. Another important outcome will be an improvement in the awareness of users of
statistical activities in states, improved access to statistical data and increased interaction between data
providers and users.


l9   See Annex XI1

                                                   20
Actions Taken

68. A Synthesis Report summarizing the statistical capacities and needs o all 35 States and Union
                                                                              f
Territories has been published. The report was published on the MOSPI web-site in April 2008. It
provides an overall assessment of the quality of the main statistics generated by the states in relation to
the 20 key activities (see paragraph 43).

69. States have taken action to increase the interaction o their statistical systems with the users o the
                                                              f                                         f
data andpromote awareness of and accessibility to published statistics. The 15th COCSSO decided that
all states should establish dedicated web-sites for statistics and should use these to strengthen interaction
with data users as well as raising awareness of statistics generally and for disseminating new data. A
majority of states now have such web-sites and their use for disseminating statistics and keeping users
informed of new developments is expected to increase over time.

70. The SSSPguidelines prepared by MOSPI require states to consult widely as the strategic plans are
prepared. The process of preparing an SSSP provides an important opportunity for the development of
an extensive consultation process involving different groups of stakeholders, including all the main data
producing agencies, State and UT Governments as both users of statistics and financiers of statistical
activities, data users outside Government including researchers and the media, civil society organizations
and different groups of data providers, especially representatives of the business sector. The SSSP
Guidelines prepared by MOSPI provide detailed information on how this process should be organized and
managed*'.

7 1 All states have been asked to observe June 29 each year as Statistics Day in India. June 29 has
     I




been formally designated as Statistics Day21 in India and a number of national events are held each year to
raise awareness of official statistics and to generate support. States have now been requested to observe
the day locally and to organize suitable public events. In 2009, Statistics Day focused on price statistics.

72. In order to improve the information to data users, states have been encouraged to provide more
information on the methods and procedures used to compile statistics (metadata) as well as the
statistics themselves. The publication of information about the methods and procedures used to compile
published statistics (known as "metadata") is widely seen as good practice. This information is important,
for example, to help a user determine whether a specific statistic is fit for purpose and also for
highlighting any limitations in coverage. States are being encouraged and supported, not only to improve
the dissemination of official statistics, but also to compile and disseminate comprehensive metadata. The
manuals on key statistics, for example, all provide detailed information on the metadata that should be
published by states.

73. Action has been taken on state publications and promotion o access to data following discussion
                                                               f
at the     COCCSO. Since the COCSSO meetings, a number of states as well as the Center have taken
the following steps.

         The CSO has finalized a minimum set of statistical products and publications for all states.
         Most states are now publishing a firm calendar for the release of these products/publications.
     0   DESs are currently working on creating dedicated statistical web-sites, and a number of these are
         already in place.


2oSee Annex XI
21The Government of India has declared 29th June of each year as Statistics Day to be celebrated as a special day at
                                                                               -
national level, coinciding with the birth anniversary of Prof. P.C. Mahalanobis the doyen of Indian Statistics. Each
year young statisticians are awarded for their outstanding contribution in the field of statistics.


                                                      21
       The states are developing e-publications to reduce the cost of dissemination and delays before
       statistics are available for use.

Medium Term Plans

74. The implementation o the MoUs in states will focus on results, especially in terms o
                              f                                                                          f
improvements in the quality and coverage o key statistical activities. The ISSP is a results focused
                                                f
program and the main results will be measurable improvements in the quality and coverage of key
statistics as determined by the extent to which states are able to achieve the national standards. As the
SSSPs are prepared and the MoUs agreed, the emphasis will be on identifying specific improvements to
be achieved in key data series, especially improved compliance with national standards. As more states
participate in the ISSP it is expected that it will be possible to demonstrate increasing data quality over
time.

75. In the medium-term, states participating in ISSP are expected to prepare and publish advance
release calendars for key statistics and to be increasingly disseminating statistics through electronic
media. Although states will set their own targets for the compilation and dissemination of indicators and
data series, these targets will be determined on the basis of the needs of data users, including the needs of
the state and national statistical system. States participating in ISSP will be expected to implement
reforms such as the publication of calendars indicating in advance when statistics are to be published, as
well as reducing delays in publication by increasing the use of electronic dissemination.

76. States will publish metadata describing the methods and procedures, used for different statistical
series so that users are able to ascertain the extent to which states are following national standards.
The publication of detailed metadata by states, which is updated as required, will be an important
mechanism for ensuring that users can determine whether a specific statistic is fit for purpose and also for
identifying to what extent state statistical systems are complying with national standards for key
activities. The dedicated web-sites will be upgraded.

7 7 . Processes to improve consultation with users and to obtain feedback will be introduced. While
some states have mechanisms for the coordination of statistical activities and for consultation with data
users in areas such as agriculture, this process is not widespread, nor is it comprehensive. Consultation
with data users from within the state as well as at the center is important to ensure that statistical activities
are based on actual demand for data. As part of the implementation of the SSSPs, therefore, states will be
encouraged and supported to establish a regular consultation mechanism with data users, including those
from outside the government. A number of mechanisms can be used, including establishing user-
producer consultation committees and holding a periodic users' conference. States have very different
levels of capacity and consequently the extent to which they are able to achieve the national standards and
the time frame will also vary. States will also be expected to get feedback from time to time on the extent
to which different user groups are satisfied with the outputs and services provided by the state statistical
systems.




                                                    22
                   IV. BANK SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM
              A. LINKTO INDIA'S COUNTRY STRATEGY AND RATIONALE FOR BANKSUPPORT

78. The rationale for the Statistical Strengthening Loan in India is based on three main arguments.
First, it supports a program of reform which the Government of India itself has identified as a priority.
The importance of good statistics to provide the evidence base for socio-economic development has long
been recognized in India. An efficient and effective national statistical system in India, perhaps more
than any other Bank part I1 country, is seen as a core function of Government at all levels and an integral
component of the accountability and transparency framework.

79. Second, the loan supports the development results agenda generally and will support development
efforts at all levels and in all sectors. The emphasis on development results and on the need to monitor
growth and poverty reduction has placed a renewed emphasis on supporting countries to increase their
capacity to collect, compile, disseminate and use relevant and reliable statistics. In particular, the
negotiations for the fourteenth and fifteenth IDA replenishment rounds have emphasized the importance
of managing for development results and the central role that developing countries' statistical systems
have in this process. IDA-qualifjring countries and the World Bank have been mandated to take active
steps to strengthen national statistical systems and to support the compilation and use of data for results
management.

80. Third, the loan will also support other Bank operations in India. An efficient and effective
statistical system is seen as essential not only for the proper operation of government at all levels but also
for the Bank's own operations in India, both lending and non-lending22. The India CAS, approved by the
Board on November 14, 2008, emphasizes the importance of measuring the Bank's contribution to India's
achievement of its development goals. Many of the indicators used to monitor implementation and to
assess effectiveness, especially those used for specific state operations and for the whole program, are
derived from the Indian Statistical System and the data generated by states. The need is not only to
extend the coverage of the statistical system, but also ensure that it is working efficiently and that its
products are trusted and widely used. Although this will be the first Bank-supported program in India in
statistics, there is a long history of Bank interest and involvement in this area. In the view of many data
users, especially in the policy research community, Bank involvement is seen as important and
emphasizes the importance of good statistics for the development process and poverty reduction
generally.

8 1. Alignment o the loan's design with CAS outcome objectives. This operation formally contributes
                    f
to CAS outcome I, achieving rapid, inclusive growth. By improving the coverage and quality of official
statistics generally and by supporting the implementation of a reform program for the statistical system in
the states it will, however, also contribute to the other outcomes.

                B. COLLABORATION WITH THE IMF AND OTHER DEVELOPMENT
                                                                  PARTNERS

82. At present, no other development partners are actively involved in statistics in India although the
IMF monitors economic and Jinancial statistics. India has subscribed to the IMF's Special Data
Dissemination Standard (SDDS) since December 1996. The LMF completed the Data Module report on
                                                                V
Standards and Codes in April 2004 and the latest Article I Consultation was completed in February
201023. The IMF staff report concluded that India was broadly in line with the requirements of the SDDS,
although it currently uses flexibility options for the timeliness of data on general government operations
and on the periodicity and timeliness of labor market data. It also concluded that generally


22   R. Grawe 2007, Increasing the Impact of the World Bank' Analytical Work in India" - Discussion Draft.
23   See Annex XV
                                                       23
macroeconomic statistics are adequate for surveillance although weaknesses remain in the timeliness and
coverage of certain statistical series.

83. Consultations with the IMF will continue as the program progresses. The IMF will be consulted
as the program is implemented.

                              c.RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BANKOPERATIONS
84. The loan will provide direct support to strengthening monitoring and evaluation activities of other
Bank operations, including importantly in states with ongoing or prospective DPL support. By
supporting the development of a coordinated and more effective statistical system in states, the loan will
support and enhance monitoring and evaluation of other Bank operations. All the states where the Bank
has development policy operations have already indicated their intention to participate in ISSP by signing
an LOP. Under the implementation arrangements in place with the ongoing DPLs, states have committed
to strengthen their monitoring and evaluation activities; this loan will enhance their ability to do so and
sustain the effort in the medium-term, by laying the foundations for improved statistics and systems. The
Bihar DPL operation, for example, is being directly enhanced by the prospective support through this
loan, with the need to strengthen the DES having already been discussed with the Government.

8 5 . The loan will also support other lending and non-lending operations by improving the coverage
and quality of key national statistics. The main results of the operation will be seen in improved quality
of statistics generated by states and especially improvements in quality of the 20 key statistical activities.
These cover the main indicators and data series needed to monitor progress towards the Millennium
Development Goals as well as most Bank operations.

                                                LEARNT
              D. CHOICE OF INSTRUMENT AND LESSONS    FROM OTHER OPERATIONS

86. This operation has been prepared as a development policy loan. The focus of the operation is on
giving effect to the policy framework set out in the National Strategic Statistical Plan that aims to
strengthen the Indian statistical system. There are several reasons for choosing a development policy
based loan:

          The Government has set out, in the form of a National Strategic Statistical Plan and in the Letter of
          Policy, a broad and detailed program of reform and capacity strengthening for the Indian Statistical
          System as a whole, covering activities at both the national and state levels. A significant number of
          actions have been completed to put this program into effect.
  0       The choice of prior actions for this operation adheres to international best practices essential for a
          systematic institutional reform leading to an improved and modern national statistical system (Box
          5). The prior actions are embedded in a home grown Go1 reform program focusing on: (i) setting
      '
          up a broad institutional framework at the central level including the appointment of the CSI and
          filling senior vacant posts for managing reforms and a permanent NSC for providing high level
          policy guidance; (ii) establishing core values, including the setting of national standards,
          promoting confidentiality, and ensuring freedom from political interference; (iii) assessing
          priorities - including national priorities (NSSP) and StateAJT's priorities (SSSPs) - within the
          policy framework based on regular consultation through mechanisms such as COCSSO; (iv)
          ensuring client responsiveness - public dissemination and client orientation, and involvement of
          users (professionals, private sector, other); and (v) generating a supportive public environment
          through widening the utility of statistics through diversified dissemination mechanisms including
          websites. The national program sets out the medium-term objectives, and states with varying
          statistical capacities determine their own priorities, the pace of the reforms and the sequence of
          actions needed. The design and the sequencing of reforms provide flexibility to the states to
          determine their own objectives and priorities within the framework of the national program.

                                                     24
       The Indian statistical system is large, complex and highly decentralized and thus a predetermined
       uniform design for states implying `one size fits all' is unlikely to be effective and may well
       impede meaningful reforms.

87. The design of the operation has also benefited from experience with STATCAP Projects and
programs in other countries and from emerging knowledge on good practice in official statistics. The
operation has benefited from the experience gained in the design and implementation of STATCAP
projects and programs in other countries, especially the Russia Development of State Statistical System
Projects. Program design has also benefited from international experience on benchmarking national
statistical systems (see Box 5 ) .

 Box 5. Characteristics of an Effective Statistical System: Benchmarking India's statistical reform strategy
                                     with best practice cross-country experience
 A keynote address by the Chief Statistician of Canada (1996), is a useful benchmark to understand the main ele-
 ments of systematic institutional reform that are essential to an improved and modem national statistical system.
 The Canadian statistical system has been rated as one of the best. In that article, Mr. Fellagi highlighted 4 clus-
 ters of such characteristics:
    Setting the broad institutional framework right, including the rank and standing of a Chief Statistician; essen-
    tial to manage the reform process; and a National Statistical Council to provide high-level policy guidance.
    Setting Core Values, including the setting of national standards, confidentiality, and freedom from political
    interference.
    Assessing Priorities. Assessing national priorities and provincial priorities, within a framework that assures
    this, especially a regular forum for center-States discussions; and Establishment of a national planning frame-
    work, including long-term planning of priorities and shifts in objectives and resources;
    Ensuring Client Responsiveness. Public dissemination and client orientation, and involvement of users (pro-
    fessionals, private sector, other); and generating a supportive public environment, especially to ensure contin-
    ued relevance.
 The paper argues that at the end of the day, there are three sets of questions to judge the efficacy of such institu-
 tional reform: (a) how adaptable is the system in responding to changing demands? (b) how effective is the sys-
 tem in exploiting existing data to meet client needs? (c) how credible is the system in terms of statistical quality
 and non-political independence.
 Source: Fellegi, Ivan P. Characteristics of an effective statistical system. Morris Hansen Lecture. International
 Statistical Review, Vol. 64, August 1996.


8 8 . The design of the program has also benefited from the experience of other Bank operations
supporting the implementation of Centrally Sponsored Schemes. Particular problems that have been
faced by recent Bank operations supporting centrally sponsored schemes in India have included:
difficulties in ensuring that a large number of beneficiaries are able to follow the detailed requirements for
financial management and procurement, resulting in slow disbursement and implementation; the
difficulties faced in supervising activities in states, especially where the sponsor of the scheme has limited
capacity and experience; and the need in a number of projects to establish separate implementation
mechanisms in states. Given the problem of managing large nation-wide schemes where the funds are
centrally managed while the implementation is in the hands of the StatesNTs, the design of this nation-
wide scheme (ISSP) is different since it allows flexibility and gives opportunity to the StatesNTs to
determine, develop and implement their own strategies within a nationally set framework.

                          E. Analytical Underpinnings and Technical Assistance

89. The design of the loan draws on three main sources of information and analysis. The first is the
2001 Report of the National Statistical Commission; the second is the report on the statistical capacities
and needs of the 35 states and the Synthesis Report and the third is the National Strategic Statistical Plan.
The analytical work on the needs and capacities of 35 states and their synthesis work as well as the


                                                       25
preparation of the NSSP was discussed at various workshops and other forums and was backed by an
intense consultative process with all the stakeholders as explained in Annex XIII.

90. Preparatory work for the operation began in 2005 with some initial technical assessments.
Following the publication of the 2001 NSC Report and the decision not to proceed with an earlier
operation24, the Bank became re-engaged with the Government to discuss' support to statistical
strengthening in 2005. In 2005, MOSPI conducted several studies (Table 2) to identify the critical gaps in
strengthening the coverage and quality of national statistics. These studies were funded by the Bank and
helped MOSPI to determine an area of possible Bank lending. NSC 2001 report had identified that the
efficacy of the ISS to a large extent depends upon the operational efficiency of the state statistical system.
With this background, an extensive study initiated in 2005 to identify the requirements to strengthen state
statistical systems thus became the basis of the current operation.

Table 2: PreDaratorv Technical Studies
            Component                                 Approach                                Outcomes
 1. Study to identifi the require-    Study designed in two phases. Phase 1:      Phase 1: Completed in March
 ments to strengthen State Statis-    assessment of the capacities and needs of   2007
 tical Systems (SSSs)                 SSBs                                        Phase 2: (a) Completed in De-
                                      Phase 2: (a) identification of needs to     cember 2007; (b) Completed in
                                      develop capacity to meet national statis-   May 2008
                                      tical standards; (b) consolidation of the
                                      35 state reports (Synthesis Report)
 2. Study for the creation and        Feasibility study for the design and        Study successfully completed,
 maintenance of a Business Reg-       maintenance of an All-India register of     some follow up work required by
 ister                                business establishments                     the Ministry.
 3. Surveys for improvement of        Three pilot studies completed covering:     Three pilots successfully com-
 service sector statistics            Advertising; Film making; and Goods         pleted and methodologies identi-
                                      transport by Road                           fied for data collection from dif-
                                                                                  ferent service sectors
 4. Study to assess the survey        Assessment of capacity of the private       Study completed and register of
 capabilities of the private sector   sector to support operations of the na-     private sector survey agencies
                                      tional statistical system                   with an assessment of capacities
                                                                                  prepared

9 1. In order to support the reform and capacity strengthening process in participating states over the
medium term, MOSPI will need to strengthen its capacity and may require technical assistance during
the implementation phase. Since there is a wide variation in statistical capacity across states, the need
for continuous technical and advisory support will remain integral to the implementation of the Go1
reform program. In order to assist the states in the preparation of the SSSPs, the Bank has been providing
technical assistance through a statistical capacity building trust fund. Once implementation is further
advanced, additional requests for technical assistance from MOSPI may be expected. The main areas
where technical support may be needed are:

  0    The strengthening of the MOSPI Project Support Group by the short-term provision of experts in
       strategic planning in statistics financed through the existing trust fund.
  0    A possible follow up non-lending TA program when the current trust f i n d closes. Go1 will enter
       into discussions with development partners once its needs have been identified.



24 Discussions with Go1 on possible support to the national statistical system began in 1995. While this loan fol1,ows
fiom and builds on this history, its design and focus are very different from an earlier project prepared in 1999,
which was never completed. In particular, this operation takes into account the recommendation of the NSC 2001
report to "ensure that the states' statistical systems are interwoven in the project architecture" (Para 14.3.20).
                                                        26
       MOSPI intends to improve training for states through a network of regional training institutes and
       NASA will develop detailed curricula and training-of-trainers facilities for this purpose. Technical
       assistance to NASA may be required to support this process.

92. Technical assistance will be provided by MOSPI to participating states. As the ISSP rolls out,
MOSPI will provide technical support in a number of areas that will be common to all or a number of
states25.For example, some may require support to improve coordination mechanisms, to manage data
quality, to develop data banks, to determine an appropriate ICT strategy, to develop electronic
dissemination of data and metadata or technical advice related to the design of particular statistical
activities. Rather than provide this on a piecemeal basis, it is likely to be more cost effective for the
assistance to be provided concurrently to a number of states through training programs, workshops, joint
missions and the provision of common guidance. The PSG will have access to specialists in CSO and this
pool will be supplemented by specialists from within India and from other countries where relevant and
where needed.

                                              V. THE LOAN

                                 A. OBJECTIVES AND EXPECTED
                                                          IMPACT

93. The loan supports an institutional and policy based reform o the Government o India for
                                                                             f                      f
strengthening state statistical systems within a national policy framework. It will enable States and
Union Territories to make progress towards common national standards relating to key statistical
activities and to improve the credibility, timeliness and accuracy of these and other statistics at both
central and the state levels. In line with the recommendations of the 200 1 NSC report and the framework
set out in the NSSP, the objective supports the achievement of the mission statement of the Indian
statistical system, that is, "to provide, within the decentralized structure of the system, reliable, timely and
credible social and economic statistics, to assist decision making within and outside the Government, to
stimulate research and to promote informed debate relating to conditions affecting people's lives", and as
extended in the NSSP26.

94. The loan has been prepared as a stand-alone operation, but it is recognized that further support
may be requiredfor the implementation o the Government reform program in the medium term". The
                                           f
process of strengthening the capacity of the state statistical systems will take a number of years to take
effect and will extend beyond the Eleventh Five-Year Plan period. Experience in India and elsewhere
indicates that strengthening the capacity of a statistical system takes a number of years and the larger and
more complex the system the longer that is required for reforms to take effect and to be sustained. It is
anticipated, therefore, that Bank support to the Government's reform program may involve further loans,
depending on progress, the requirements of the Government and the resources available to the Bank. The
loan supports the program up to the end of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan period, that is, March 3 1, 2012.
At the time of the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), it is expected that Go1 and
the Bank will review the progress that has been made with the Go1 reform program and will identify, in
principle, what further support may be required.

95. The envisaged policy and institutional changes support the increasing integration of all
States/Union Territories in India into a coordinated national Statistical system and continued
improvement in the quality o key statistics and other statistics at the state level. The institutional
                            f
changes supported through the loan, including those related to improving coordination, assist the
transformation and convergence of the states into a coordinated national framework to achieve a more
durable and sustainable process of statistical development. The Bank's support helps to lay the
25
  See Chapter 3 of the Synthesis Report (Annex VI)
26                                     in/nssp_material_2j 8.htm)
  NS SP paragraph 2.5 (http://mospi.nic.                 uly0
" See Para 8

                                                    27
foundations for a strong, robust and responsive statistical system that caters to the needs of its various
stakeholders at all levels.

96. The program that the loanz8 supports aims to improve the collection of key statistics, especially
statistics derived from administrative record-keeping, and to improve the demand for data. The
benefits of the loan will include: (i) states consider their administrative data reporting agencies as useful
agencies which are critical for both the formulation and the monitoring of Government policy; (ii)
statistical officials in states exercise their core mandate of routine record-keeping and collection of
administrative data on a regular basis; (iii) the demand for credible and reliable data by policy makers is
strengthened, which raises the profile of statistical activities and the morale of the personnel involved; and
(iv) the preparation of directories, manuals, advance release calendars, and web portals is supported,
helping to establish a responsive and credible statistical system that meets the demands of a fast growing
economy. Bank support to the Government's program brings access to international best practices,
technical knowledge and experiences and lessons from other countries in similar situations.

97. The loan supports the institutional strengthening of MOSPI to facilitate the state statistical reform
process and to help the designated nodal Statistical Agencies in the participating StatesLJTs. MOSPI's
capacity will be strengthened in relation to both technical statistical issues and the management of the
ISSP through the PSG2'. At the state level provision will be made in the SSSPs for strengthening the
DESs as well as the statistical units in the state line departments. As described in Section 111, the program
is based on key reforms in the following four areas:

          Coordination and leadership of the National Statistical System
          Increasing support from the Center to the states
          Strengthening the capacity and performance of State Statistical Systems
          Improving the coverage, quality, timeliness and credibility of statistics generated by states

98. The expected outcomes and impact of the program will vary from state to state, depending to a
large extent on the initial conditions. Key outcomes of the reform program, as set out by Go1 in the
Letter of Policy, over the Eleventh Five-Year Plan period are:

          Enable DES or its equivalent to fulfill a coordination role as the nodal statistical agency in the
          states
          Agreed implementation plan to develop state statistics - State Strategic Statistical Plan - updated
          annually;
          Improve reliability and timeliness of datasets available from various sources including
          administrative records;
          Development of a more effective institutional mechanism for making data available to users;
          Better institutional capacity to gather and process information;
          Improvement in the quality and performance of statistical personnel at state and national level;
          Production and dissemination of official statistics of highest quality;
          Use of innovative technologies and standardization procedures.


                                                                       P
99. States will participate in the reform program as they are read over a period of two or more years,
depending on their statistical capacity and baseline condition , States will benefit from the ISSP
depending on their readiness to participate. Participation in the nation-wide scheme by states is voluntary
and State and UT Governments will take part depending on the priority that they place on strengthening

** And any possible subsequent loans, depending upon need and the progress of the Go1 reforms.
29
     See details in Annex IX
30   For the description of baseline condition see Annex VI
                                                        28
their statistical systems and their capacity. A staggered rate of participation has a number of advantages;
in particular it will allow lessons to be learnt to deliver better results as a whole. As a result of this
staggered participation the timing of results will vary and achievement levels at a particular point in time
will differ across states. As more states enroll, the national statistical system as a whole will become
more robust and the quality of national statistics will be improved.

100. Results in states will vary depending on their initial capacity and the point at which they
participate in the ISSP. Table 3 indicates the expected results for states in the three different capacity
categories, assuming that states participate in the program and that they remain engaged over the medium-
term (at least three years). An important reason for a sustained effort is the incentive that improved
statistics will offer to every participating state, including: better information to deliver better policies;
improved transparency and accountability of governments; and in turn, improved basis for investment
activity.

  Table 3: Expected results from each category of states after participating in the program
                                      for three years
  Classification                                                          Results
              -
  Category I Not participating in              Basic data series and indicators compiled and published with
  National Sample Survey (little or            reasonable reliability and timeliness
  no statistical capacity)                     States meet national quality standards for at least 5 core
                                               statistical activities
                                               DES in place and mechanism for leading the development of
                                               statistical activities across the state in place
                                               Adequate resources in place
                                               Strategic planning process in place and statistical system able to
                                               respond to users' needs
                  -
  Category I1 Participating in                 Improved reliability and timeliness of data series and indicators
  National Sample Survey, not                  New data series developed to meet emerging demand
  tabulating results (limited                  Adhere to standards on data quality set by CSO on at least 8
  capacity with structural                     core statistical activities
  problems)                                    DES plays an effective role as a nodal statistical body to lead
                                               and coordinate statistical activities across the state
                                               Resources used more effectively
                                               Strategic planning process in place and statistical system able to
                                               respond to new demands
                                               User feedback mechanism in place
                      -
  Category 111 Participating in                Improved reliability and timeliness of data series and indicators
  National Sample Survey and                   New data series developed to meet emerging demand
  tabulating results (capacity exists,         Adhere to standards on data quality set by CSO on at least 10
  more technical support required)             core statistical activities
                                               DES plays an effective role as a nodal statistical body to lead
                                               and coordinate statistical activities across the state
                                               Resources used more effectively
                                               Strategic planning process in place and statistical system able to
                                               respond to new demands
                                               User feedback mechanism in place

101. The decentralized character of the Indian Statistical System provides a sound basis for a
programmatic approach to statistical development. The success of the Government reform program rests
largely on a gradual improvement in the capacity and performance of the state statistical systems and their
increasing integration into the national statistical system. The Government reform program emphasizes
that a "big bang" approach whereby all StatesLJT's adopt reforms simultaneously is unlikely to bear fruit.
A state specific, home-grown program, which gives flexibility to states to define their priorities under a

                                                  29
broad policy framework in phases, is an appropriate approach. A programmatic approach incorporates
the following:

       Learning by doing: States respond to the reform pulse at different points of time based on their
       initial conditions. Statistically advanced states make choices, adjust and make mid-course
       correction and the next set of states learn from their experiences.
       Setting models o what works: As the reforms progress, different typologies (by size, needs,
                          f
       capacities and speed of reforms and other typologies) of states may emerge. This will pave the way
       forward in setting doable models to be followed by different groups of states.
       Phasing o states: This is central to the government reform process and includes the expectation
                  f
       that all states converge over time and catch up with the national standards.
       Deepening structural and institutional reforms: Structural changes and institutional building is a
       time consuming task. A programmatic approach supports institution building and structural
       changes over the medium-term.
       Capacity building: Strengthening capacity both at the Center and state level in a phgsed manner
       will allow the process to expand along with institutional changes and be more durable and
       sustainable.

102. Each state participating in the program will determine its own priorities and will prepare a State
Strategic Statistical Plan including a detailed implementation plan. As described in Section 111, to
participate in the program each state will sign a Letter of Participation (LOP) and will prepare a State
Strategic Statistical Plan (SSSP)3'. The SSSP will set out the priorities of the state for the development of
its statistical system and the results that will be achieved.

                       B. THEGOVERNMENT'S
                                       PROGRAM OF SUPPORT TO STATES

103. MOSPI will disburse resources to states on the basis of specwe actions and .deliverabled2, the first
of which is the signing of the LOP. Once states have signed the LOP, they will then initiate the
processes needed to prepare the SSSP. For the first set of states, technical assistance to support the
preparation of the SSSP is being provided through a World Bank Trust Fund. The SSSP will set out an
implementation plan for a series of reforms and capacity strengthening actions to be put into effect over
the medium-term. On the basis of this plan, MOSPI and the State or UT Government will draw up and
sign a Memorandum of Understanding ( M o U ) ~ In. most states it is expected that the time required to
                                                    ~
prepare the SSSP, from the start until its formal approval by the State or UT Government, will be between
six months and one year.

104. The Memorandum of Understanding will set out a program of reforms and other actions to be
carried out by the state and the financial and technical support that will be provided by MOSPI. The
MoU will set out what results in terms of improvements in data quality, each state proposes to achieve,
the actions it will take, the resources that will be provided by MOSPI and how progress will be monitored
and reported34. In particular it will set out what actions are required and what deliverables must be
produced in order to trigger budget transfers from MOSPI.




31 See Annex XI
32 See Annex XI1
33
   See Annex XI1
34
   See Annexes I and XI1

                                                  30
105. After states have participated in the reform process for two or three years the expected results will
be as follows (see also Table 3)

       A nodal agency to coordinate the statistical system will have been identified and this agency will
       be empowered to coordinate statistical activities across the state;
       The operations of the statistical system will be supported by an appropriate mandate to guarantee
       the integrity and independence of official statistics in line with standards set by CSO with
       guidance from the National Statistical Commission;
       The quality of key statistical activities providing data for national statistics will be improved and
       states will be meeting national standards for an increasing number of the key activities;
       The availability and accessibility of statistics for planning and decision making will be improved.
       The satisfaction of the users of the statistical system will be increased;

106. The Program Matrix in Annex I describes the GoI program of reforms under the nation-wide
scheme in the four policy areas. It sets out the proposed sequence of the reform program, the
relationship between MOSPI and the states and how the operation is integrated with this process.

          c.WORLD BASKSUPPORT: ACTIONS     TAKES
                                     ALREADY    AND EXPECTED
                                                           RESULTS

107. The Government has maintained an adequate macroeconomic policy framework. The key element
is fiscal sustainability, with control of the government budget deficit to ensure medium-term alignment
with the Government's fiscal responsibility framework. The analysis of the macroeconomic policy
framework and its adequacy is described in Section 11.

108. The Bank loan will be available for withdrawal in a single disbursement of US$107 million based
on actions already taken. Overall, the Government's reform program is on track. Go1 has identified nine
actions that have been taken of which four are part of Policy Area I, setting out the basic reform
framework, three are key requirements for Policy Area I1 that strengthens the framework of support from
the center to the states, one is essential for Policy Area I11 that initiates actions and commitment to the
                                                                     V
reforms at the state level and one is essential for Policy Area I on improving statistics produced by
states based on the detailed assessment of the statistical systems of the 35 States/UTs.

Policy Area I: Coordination and Leadership of the National Statistical System

       The first action is that the permanent National Statistical Commission has, on April 30, 2008,
       endorsed the National Strategic Statistical Plan (NSSP), which is the guiding policy document for
       the national statistical system in India35. The NSSP has been published on the MOSPI web-site.
       The second action is the enactment of the Collection of Statistics Act 2008 (No.7 of 2009). The
       Act was passed by Parliament in its December 2008 session and was assented to by the President
       on January 9,2009.
       The third action is for the Government of India to have approved ISSP as a centrally sponsored
       scheme under the Eleventh Five Year Plan. ISSP was formally approved as a centrally sponsored
       scheme in the Eleventh Five-Year Plan by the Planning Commission in June 2008. MOSPI
       presented the ISSP proposal for the remaining years of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan with detailed
       cost estimates to the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The Expenditure Finance Committee (MOF) has
       recommended the proposal to the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) for the
       implementation of the ISSP as a centrally sponsored scheme at an estimated cost of about Rs 650
       crores (approx. US$135.5 million) and CCEA approved ISSP at its meeting in March, 2010.

''The NSSP was discussed at a national workshop in April 2008,,was formally approved by the permanent NSC in
April 2008 and by the Minister of State for Statistics and Programme Implementation in June 2008. NSSP was
launched by the Hon. Prime Minister at a national event on September 9,2008.
                                                   31
         The fourth action is for the Standing Committee of the Conference of Central and State Statistical
         Organizations (COCSSO) to have included ISSP as a permanent agenda item for regular COCSSO
         meetings. The Standing Committee of COCSSO, which is reconstituted every year, meets bi-
         annually to review actions taken at the previous COCSSO and to prepare the agenda for the next
         meeting. Since 2007, the Standing Committee has included ISSP as a permanent agenda item for
         all cocsso meetings36.

Policy Area 11: Increasing Support from the Center to States

         The fifth action is for national standards for eight key statistical activities to have been prepared,
         approved, and disseminated. The manuals have been published on the MOSPI web-site and cover
         areas such as: the Population Census; the Index of Industrial Production; Annual Survey of
         Industries; Wholesale Price Index; Estimation of State and District Income; Cost of Cultivation
         Surveys; Crop Area and Production Statistics; and National Accounts Statistics.
         The sixth Go1 action taken is for the necessary institutional capacity required to support the
         implementation of the ISSP to have been established. The Project Support Group was formally
         established in the CSO on April 21, 2008 by upgrading and expanding the previous Project
         Implementation Unit. It is fully staffed (with 10 staff members at headquarters) and is part of
         CSO. A Technical Advisory Unit and Financial Support Team are also part of the PSG to provide
         assistance to states on technical and financial issues. At the same time, coordination between
         MOSPI and the states has been strengthened through the assignment of additional functions to the
         DDGs of the Field Operations Division of NSS037 posted in states. These DDGs are responsible
         for supporting the implementation of the ISSP at the state level.
     0   The seventh Go1 action is for information on ISSP, including the progress of reforms to have been
         disseminated, through the dedicated MOSPI web-site. The MOSPI web-site has been upgraded
         and expanded and now contains a number of web pages dedicated to ISSP
         (http://mospi.nic.idissp) well as relevant information on other web pages.
                                   as

Policy Area 111: Strengthening the Capacity and Performance of State Statistical Systems

         The eighth action is that the governments of seven States or UTs have indicated their commitment
         to the ISSP by signing LOPs. In fact, as of July 15, 2009, a total of 22 out of 35 State and UT
         Governments have signed LOPS.

Policy Area IV: Improving the Coverage, Quality, Timeliness and Credibility of Statistics Generated by
States

         The ninth Go1 action taken is that an assessment report on the statistical capacities and needs of
         states has been published. A Synthesis Report has been prepared and published on the MOSPI
         web-site, together with the individual State and UT Reports.

Expected Results of the Loan

109. It is also expected that in 12 months participating states will have identified specifx actions to
improve their statistical systems. In particular, states will have identified a set of actions to ensure that
their statistical systems are increasingly in line with good practice in coordination and management. The
principles under which official statistical agencies in India will operate are being developed by the
permanent NSC. It is expected that these principles will follow the United Nations Fundamental


36   See Annex IV
37   See Annex IX

                                                    32
Principles of Official Statistics adopted by the UN Statistical Commission in 1994, to which India already
subscribes. In particular, these principles will:

       Promote the independence, professionalism and integrity of official statistics at all levels
       Promote good practice in the dissemination of statistics
       Encourage openness and transparency in statistical operations and procedures
       Promote adherence to international standards for different areas of statistics
  0    Improve the efficiency of statistical operations by improving coordination between different
       statistical agencies and taking account of quality, timeliness, costs and the burden on respondents
       when choosing among types of sources for data
       Ensure the confidentiality of statistical information provided by individual respondents

1 10. Within 18 months o egectiveness o the loan, it is expected that the reform process at the state
                           f               f
level will be well established with some states already implementing a program under an MoU signed
with MOSPI. The expected results within 18 months are set out in the Program Matrix (column 3). By
this time it is expected that at least seven states will have prepared SSSPs and at least three will have
signed MoUs and will be implementing an agreed program of reform and capacity strengthening. While
some initial reforms and capacity strengthening measures will have been carried out, it may be difficult to
identify measurable improvements in key statistical activities within this time period. In preparing their
SSSP's, however, states will be encouraged to identify some actions that can lead to immediate
improvements in the coverage, quality, timeliness and credibility of some critical statistical indicators or
series. These immediate improvements are expected to result from the processing and further analysis of
data that have already been collected, but which have not been fully processed or disseminated. Where
required the World Bank may be able to provide some additional technical support through the
Accelerated Data Program38.

111. GoI does not expect that the process o strengthening state statistical capacity will be completed
                                              f
within the period o the loan and MOSPI is planning to move forward in a step-wise manner, building
                   f
on the achievements o thisprogram. In the medium-term the aim will be to both broaden and deepen
                      f
the reform program. For those states that have been participating in ISSP from the beginning the focus
would be on deepening the reform and capacity strengthening process in order to improve the quality and
coverage of a wider set of key statistics. For other states the emphasis would be on initiating the process
of reform and capacity strengthening, taking into account the lessons learned.

112. The measures GoI proposes to take to maintain and strengthen the statistical system in the
medium term are expected to include:

       A continued appropriate policy framework for the development of the national statistical system
       with a clear vision and strategy for the continued development and coordination of the statistical
       system through regular reviews and updates as required of the NSSP
  0    Rules framed under the Collection of Statistics Act 2008 are put into effect.
  0    National standards in the form of manuals for at least a further eight key statistical activities have
       been formally prepared, approved and made available in the public domain by CSO.
  0    At least half of the states participating in ISSP have prepared SSSPs and have signed MoUs with
       MOSPI.
  0    State level Steering Committees are in place and are working effectively in participating states.
  0    Performance benchmarks are largely being met in those states that have signed MoUs.


38 This is a world-wide program financed by the World Bank and other partners and implemented by PARIS21 to
help countries make more effective use of survey and other data.
                                                   33
         Detailed training needs assessments have been prepared and a training plan developed in those
         states that have signed MoUs.
         Advance release calendars on GSDP and other agreed core statistics have been prepared and
         published in those states that were the first to sign MoUs.
         Those states that were the first to sign MoUs are providing access to key statistical series through
         electronic media.

                                 VI. PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
                                     A. POVERTY AND SOCIAL IMPACT

1 13. The loan is not expected to have a direct impact on poverty reduction, but it will help Governments
to better analyze and monitor poverty, thereby informing the design and choice of poverty reduction
policies. The loan will help to generate more reliable and timely data for credible social policy decisions
by state and national Governments and will support the evaluation of the impact of Government
interventions. The impact of the operation will depend on the extent to which strengthening the capacity
of a state statistical system will succeed in improving access to statistics and the extent to which these
data are used for policy analysis. The loan will contribute to the openness and transparency of the
Government generally. Improvements in state statistical capacity will also contribute directly to the
generation of better and more reliable estimates of the incidence and distribution of poverty in India.

                           B. IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING EVALUATION
                                                      AND

114. The World Bank will maintain a dialogue with GoI to monitor the implementation of the
Government's statistical reform program and its roll out in participating states. The expected results of
the program over the period of this operation and in the medium term are set out in the Program Matrix in
Annex I. The framework for the national reform program is set out in the National Strategic Statistical
Plan, which was approved and launched in 2008. Go1 has undertaken to review and update the NSSP as
required within three years from its launch, that is, before June 201 1. Other changes that will be reviewed
include the finalization and implementation of detailed rules for the Collection of Statistics Act, 2008.
The Bank will interact on a regular basis with the permanent NSC and MOSPI to review the progress of
implementation of the reform program.

115. At the level of States, implementation of the reform program will be through the roll-out and the
increasing participation of states in ISSP. MOSPI, through CSO, will be responsible for implementation
of the program and its monitoring as well as the continued development and dissemination of standards
and manuals for key statistical activities. The Bank will review progress through regular missions and
through the technical assistance program as outlined in Section IV.Progress will also be reported through
regular updates published on the MOSPI web-site.

1 16. Institutional structure for ISSP implementation. At the state level the designated nodal agency
(mostly Departments of Economic and Statistics) will be the main implementing agency for ISSP. A
governance structure for ISSP implementation has been developed by the Ministry of Statistics and
Programme Implementati~n'~.       MOSPI's experience with implementation and reporting of complex
decentralized programs has increased significantly in recent years through the implementation of the
MPLADS(see Box6).




39
     For more details see Annex IX
                                                   34
               Box 6: The Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS)
 MOSPI has been implementing a large scheme (total budget of Rs 16 billion, or approximately US$ 400 million
 per year), the MPLADS, for a number of years. Under this scheme each member of Lok Sabha can propose
 works up to Rs. 2 crores (about US$500,000) per year. The total money disbursed by MOSPI under MPLADS is
 of the order of US$350 million per year. Since 2007, disbursement is in excess of 90 per cent and monthly infor-
 mation on disbursements under this scheme in all districts is maintained and is available in the public domain.

117. The institutional mechanism to implement the ISSP relies on the government's own statistical
machinery and is part& being revamped and partly strengthened through existing institutional
structures. The institutional structure set up for monitoring and execution of the ISSP at the central level
comprises a high-level Steering Committee under the chairperson of the Secretary MOSPI, the Project
Support Group (PSG); a revived COCSSO forum, the Senior Statistical Officers of the central
Government (DDGs) recently posted at the state level in the NSSO departments with additional
responsibilities for ISSP implementation and Senior Statistical Officers posted in line Ministries at the
Central level for better coordination of administrative data issues. Similarly an institutional structure at
the state level is set up through the LOPS. The LOP creates the essential framework for setting up
institutional arrangements for ISSP implementation (a) conformity to a national framework, i.e., NSSP;
(b) designation of a single nodal agency for statistical activities; (c) designation of a nodal agency as a
point of interaction for ISSP matters; (d) high-level Steering Committee under the chairmanship of the
Chief Secretary; (e) preparation of an SSSP; ( f ) implementation of SSSPs through MoUs; (g) coverage of
all recurrent costs and provision of land/buildings/manpower,if required from the state budget; and (h)
collection, compilation and dissemination of statistics as per MoU and national standards.

1 18.Arrangements are in place to ensure the flow of reporting information among all parties involved
on a time& basis. These include the following:

       The high-level Steering Committee under the chairmanship of the Secretary, MOSPI, will meet
       every quarter to review the implementation of the ISSP in the states. The Member Secretary of
       PSG is a member of the high-level Steering Committee.
       This high-level Steering Committee will identify states requiring additional support and further
       hand-holding in keeping pace with the reform process. The quantum of support to lagging states
       will be need-based. The high-level Steering Committee can request technical assistance from the
       World Bank for a specific state.
       The Coordination and Publications Division (CAP) of CSO, MOSPI, entrusted with the
       coordination of the dialogue between the states and the center, will require regular reporting from
       its field officers -the DDGs - already posted at the state level.
       Project status reports (both in physical and financial terms) will be submitted every two months
       from the StatesWTs to PSG (MOSPI). PSG provides technical support and plays an advisory role
       for the states.
       Bi-annual review meetings will be convened by Go1 with all participating StatesAJTs at the level
       of Directors of DES or State Nodal Officers for ISSP and DDGs;
       Annual meeting of COCSSO will be held with ISSP implementation as a permanent agenda item;
       On-site verifications and review missions to the field will be held by PSG members and other
       reporting arrangements will be set up subject to inclusion in MoUs;
       MOSPI will prepare annual reports on ISSP implementation progress.

1 19.Monitoring and evaluation will be critical to measure outcomes and to benchmark progress.
While statistical capacity building programs generally are important contributors to monitoring and
evaluation systems, there is less experience with the identification of indicators and monitoring
mechanisms for statistical agencies. Table 4 identifies the framework of indicators that will be used to
report on progress in participating states. The framework has been developed from the IMF's Data

                                                    35
Quality Assessment Framework (DQAF), which forms the basis of the data component of the IMF
Reports on Standards and Codes4'. Each state participating in the ISSP will be required to compile and
report on indicators, as stipulated in the MoUs, under four main headings:

          Indicators of the availability of data for the key statistical activities and other state-level data.
          Indicators of the performance of the statistical system as a whole, relating to processes to ensure
          the integrity and quality of statistical data, including the extent to which national statistical
          principles have been put into effect. This heading will also include measures of overall user
          satisfaction with the statistical system, based on periodic user satisfaction surveys or other
          feedbackkomplaint mechanisms.
          Indicators of the quality of key indicators, including the extent to which states observe national
          standards for the key statistical activities.
          Indicators of data accessibility, including whether or not an advance release calendar is in place
          and whether a data warehouse has been established.

120. Program monitoring indicators. Based on the framework set out in Table 4, specific monitoring
indicators will be used by participating states. The monitoring indicators that will be used by states
participating in ISSP have been derived from the Program Matrix and are set out in Table 5 .

                       Table 4: Indicative Reporting Indicators by States to MOSPI
              Proposed Indicators for each participating State              Monitoring Procedures
Indicators of the Data available for core activities                             Annual report/statistical audit
availability of   Data available for critical state planning requirements        Annual Report/statistical audit
statistical data  Key unmet data needs as identified in the SSSP are met         Annual report
                  Surveys conducted and resulting data processed and             Annual Report/statistical audit
                       published
Indicators of the Mechanism for effective coordination of statistical            Annual report/ statistical audit
Derformance of         activities in place
;he statistical   Statistical system operates in line with national principles   Annual report/ statistical audit
system as a whole      in relation to data integrity
                  Mechanism for regular consultation with data users in placl    Annual report/ statistical audit
                  User satisfaction increased                                    User feedbacldassessment of user
                                                                                     satisfaction conducted
lndicators of data Adherence to standards on data quality set by CSO (agreed Metadata as published on state or
quality                 set of key activities)                                       national web-site
                   Timeliness and frequency of publication for key statistics ii Annual report
                        line with national standards
                   Information provided about revisions and notice of major Annual report
                       changes in methodology used
                   Publication of meta data including on the state and MOSPI Annual reportlstatistical audit
                       web-sites
'ndicators of data Web-site in place for data dissemination                      Annual report
Iccessibility      Data archive in place                                         Annual report
                   Advance release calendar in place                             Annual report
                   Dissemination practices in line with national principles and Metadata as published on state or
                       policies                                                      national web-site
                   Simultaneous release of data to all users




40   India is a subscriber to the IMF SDDS and the SDDS requirements will figure in the monitoring process.

                                                        36
                            Table 5: Monitoring Indicators for participating States
4rea                               Monitoring Indicators               AgencylReport Source
strategic leadership to improve         Annual report on the national statistical MOSPI web-site
:he operational efficiency of the       system prepared and published.
Statistical system.                     NSSP reviewed by the end of the Ele- MoSP1/States
                                        venth Five-Year Plan (2012).
[mproved compliance on adminis-         Increased publication of statistics based Statistics published by states and the
rative return based statistics.         on administrative data sources.            metadata.
Zredible, timely and reliable state     0     Adherence to standards on data       StatesMOSPI to monitor
iata on 10 key statistical activities         quality set by CSO.
                                              Three quarters of participating
                                              states have quality assessment of
                                              high or medium for core activities.
                                              Adherence to timetables specified
                                              in the MoUs.
                                              User feedback/complaints.
Project covers sufficient number        Number of participating states to consti- ISSP annual progress report by MOSPI
3f participatingstates                  tute at least 85% of economic activity
                                        by end of 20 15.
National Standards adequately set       Manuals on all 20 core activities in pub- MOSPI web-site
for the state statistical system;       lic domain, by 2012.
states follow standards                 75% of participating states conform to ISSP annual progress report by MOW
                                        national standards on at least 10 core     On the web-site
                                        statistics by 2015.
States are able to access technical     Rate of disbursement of CSS finds to ISSP annual progress report by MOSPI
and financial support as required.      states under ISSP.                         on the web-site
                                        COCSSO standing committee minutes coc~so              minutes Published on the
                                        on the level of support from the Center web-site
                                        to the state.
                                                                                   Participating states web-sites
                                        Information on improvement of the
                                         statistical systems in all participating
                                         states in a consistent format publicly
                                         available.
State SSSPs reflect individual           SSSPs in place in at least three quarters State Reports
state priorities, policy and user        of states conforming to the ISSP's ob-
priorities                              jectives by 2012.
                                        Appropriate state specific elements in
                                         SSSPs
An efficient staffing andor statis-      Minimum/average qualification of staff States web-sites
tical cadre.                             at various levels.
                                        At least 70% of professional staff in
                                        participating states has received mini-
                                        mum levels of training as specified by
                                        NASA by 2015.
Better accessibility to data and    .
                                        At least 75% of participating states by IState and MOSPI web-sites
interface with users.                   120 15:
                                         0     Disseminate official statistics
                                               through a web-site, including dis-
                                               trict level data;
                                               Have an advance release calendar
                                               in place for all core statistics.
                                          0    Level of user satisfaction is moni-
                                               tored.


                                                           37
121. All states will be encouraged, and participating states will be supported through ISSP, to publish
data, metadata, and information on the performance o the State Statistical Systems (SSS). In addition
                                                          f
to being supported to collect and disseminate statistical indicators, all participating states will be
supported to establish processes for the compilation and dissemination of metadata, that is, formal
descriptions of the statistical practices, methods and procedures used for different statistical series. States
will also be required and encouraged to prepare regular reports on the activities of the statistical system as
a whole. These reports including reports about the progress of the ISSP and other information should be
made available to data users and other stakeholders through public dissemination, with particular
emphasis on dissemination through web-sites (see Disclosure and Transparency of Program
Implementation Details in Annex XIV).One benchmark that will be important for monitoring progress
will be the extent to which states are publicly disseminating information about the performance of their
statistical systems.

122. The Bank will continue to remain engaged and to support MOSPI during the implementation of
the overall ref~rmprogram.~'. engagement is expected to include a number of activities:
                             This

         Supervising of technical assistance currently provided by the existing World Bank Trust Fund for
         the StatesAJTs in launching the SSSP preparation there. The Bank will continue to execute the
         trust fund in collaboration with MOSPI until its closing.
         Attending meetings of the national, high-level Steering Committee as a permanent invitee.
         Participation in COCSSO meetings where ISSP is discussed. The Bank representative will receive
         all the reports and will be able to monitor progress on a regular basis.
         Participating in joint GoVWorld Bank reviews to be scheduled at roughly six month intervals.
         The Bank's team will also remain in close and regular contact with the PSG and will be able to
         provide advice as required.
         Preparation of possible follow up operations, if both Go1 and the Bank decide that these should be
         needed.
         Completion of an Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report.

123. In order to provide sufficient time to assess progress with the first states participating in ISSP, the
closing date for the loan will be I 2 months afier the loan has become effective. The results that are
expected to be achieved within 12 months from effectiveness are set out in the Program Matrix (see
Annex I). Because it will necessarily require some time for improvements in data quality and coverage to
be achieved, even where states are able to carry out some early activities, the initial results will be
concerned mostly with the process of ISSP implementation, as set out in Section 111. In particular the
expected results, which will be reviewed in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), relate to the
progress that the first states have made in preparing their SSSPs and in agreeing and signing MoUs.

                                          C. FIDUCIARY
                                                     ASPECTS

 124. The Reserve Bank o India (RBI) manages the foreign exchange reserves o India. Based on the
                          f                                                        f
RBI audit report and the outcomes of other World Bank operations that have been disbursed through RBI,
the World Bank has reasonable assurance that the control environment for foreign exchange is
satisfactory for the purposes of this operation. The IMF does not carry out a Safeguard Assessment of the
Reserve Bank of India. As part of the appraisal for the DPL operation, World Bank staff reviewed the
RBI audit report and its published annual financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2008. The
audit report by joint auditors appointed by the Government has an unqualified opinion. The financial
statements are prepared in accordance with the Reserve Bank of India Act 1934, the notifications issued
under the Act, and in the form prescribed by the RBI General Regulations 1949. The audit follows the
standards generally accepted in India.

41
     For more details see Annex IX
                                                   38
125. While there has not been any formal diagnostic assessment (such as the Country `Financial
Accountability Assessment or the Public Financial Management Report) of public financial
management (PFM) at the Union level in India, focused studies of public accountability issues on
selected areas such as the Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) have been carried out. The Bank has also
carried out F M assessment^^^ in ten States43as well as in U L B S and PRIs,~'and one State46has carried
                                                                   ~~
out a self-assessment. These have provided a basis for enhanced knowledge and understanding of the
strengths and weaknesses of the PFM systems at the union level.

126. The Government has taken/ initiated various actions in the area of PFM, including (a) enactment
of Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act; (b) passage of the Right to Information Act; (c)
recognizing the need to improve the quality of financial disclosure and moving progressively to align
disclosures with international public sector accounting standards; and (d) recognizing the need for better
financial monitoring of Centrally Funded Schemes by initiating the Central Plan Monitoring Scheme.

127. GoI has recognized that there are significant opportunities for strengthening FM at the union
level. The Go1 has accepted a recommendation of the 12' Finance Commission to move gradually from a
cash basis to an accrual basis of accounting. It has also shown interest in benchmarking an array of FM
practices to international standards and good practices, including cash management, debt management,
accounting for contingent liabilities, and internal and external audit. The Go1 seems interested in
designing and implementing integrated financial management information systems (IFMIS)-or at least
in modernizing existing Treasury systems-at State and possibly union levels.

                                       D. DISBURSEMENT AUDITING
                                                    AND

128. The Bank will disburse the loan proceeds in US Dollars to GoI account with RBI based on which
RBI will credit the rupee equivalent in GoI's account on the same day. The government will be required
to provide a confirmation to the Bank that the proceeds of the loan have been received in the designated
deposit account with RBI and that an equivalent amount in local currency has also been credited to an
account of the government available to finance budget expenditures.

129. Disbursement of the loan proceeds would not be linked to specificpurchases. However, Go1 would
not use the loan proceeds to pay for expenditures included in the Bank's standard negative list. If any
portion of the Loan is used to finance ineligible expenditures as so defined in the Loan Agreement, the
Bank shall require the Go1 to refund the amount.

130. Legal and Disbursement Arrangements, The financing terms and conditions for the IBRD loan will
be reflected through a legal agreement between Go1 and IBRD.


42
   "FM assessments" is a term used in this paper to include State Financial Accountability Assessments, State Public
    Financial Management Assessments, Public Financial Management and Accountability Studies, and Notes on se-
    lected issues.
43
   Tamil Nadu (2003), Orissa (2004), Karnataka (2004), Uttar Pradesh (2004), Bihar (2005), Rajasthan (2005), Pun-
   jab (2006), Jharkhand (2007), Maharashtra (draft report), Himachal Pradesh (draft report).
44
     Goel, P. and Beazley, I., "Synthesis Study of Public Financial Management and Accountability in Urban Local
     Bodies (Urban Local Governments at the Third Tier of Government in India)." Financial Management Unit South
     Asia Region, World Bank, March 2007.
45
   Goel, P., and Mamak, M., "Public Financial Management and Accountability in Panchayati Raj Institutions (Rural
   Local Governments), Synthesis Study." Report Mp/ 38557-IN, Financial Management Unit South Asia Region,
   World Bank, April 2007.
46 Andhra Pradesh: State Financial Accountability Assessment (State Government), Center for Good Governance,
   2004.
                                                      39
13 1. The loan proceeds will be available for withdrawal in a single disbursement. The Bank support
under the loan will be based on actions already taken. These nine actions are listed in the loan agreement
(See Section V, paragraph 108).

                                                    ASPECTS
                                      E. ENVIRONMENTAL

132. The policies supported by the loan are not expected to have any direct environmental effects. As a
result, environmental impacts associated with the loan are not likely to be significant and none of them
are expected to be unprecedented, sensitive, or diverse.

                                   VII. RISKS AND MITIGATION
133. The loan supports a long overdue modernization process o the Indian statistical system which has
                                                                f
high potential rewards relative to the modest costs and risks involved. It is an innovative program with a
large potential pay-off, but there remain some significant risks, primarily related to the implementation
and capacity bottlenecks in the specific context of a complex and decentralized statistical system in India.
While the Government of India's reform program has risk mitigation measures directed at each of these
areas, there may be some unforeseen residual implementation risks which would be corrected by flexible
adjustments of program design and implementation as experience is gained in carrying out the actual
reforms in a phased manner. The main risks to the successful implementation of the Program and the
proposed mitigation measures are as follows.

       The momentum o the reform program is not maintained beyond the period o the Eleventh Plan.
                         f                                                               f
       While the Government is not yet in a position to commit formally to continuing the centrally
       sponsored scheme in the Twelfth Plan period and beyond, the need to continue the reform beyond
       2012 is explicitly recognized in the National Strategic Statistical Plan and the Letter of Policy.
       There is also recognition of the need for reform and considerable momentum towards
       strengthening the capacity of their statistical systems in a number of states. The risk of the
       program not continuing beyond 2012, therefore, is considered low.
       Weak capacityfor program management in MOSPI. This is mitigated by strong oversight by a
       high-level and experienced ISSP Steering Committee and by an experienced team of senior
       officers and is supported by the newly established permanent National Statistical Commission;
       improved management through the Chief Statistician of India, and the revamped organizational
       structure of MOSPI. Other mitigation measures include financial resources available for addition
       of key contract personnel to enhance the technical and management capacity within MOSPI;
       improved management reporting and monitoring systems; and the improved Center-State dialogue
       through COCSSO and other institutional mechanisms. MOSPI has also gained substantial recent
       experience in implementing and monitoring a complex national Local Area Development Scheme
       (the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme, MPLADS), which will be useful for
       the management of the program.
       Poor performance in states with weak starting capacity, too many participating states with widely
       varying needs and capacity, and uncertain incentives for states to persist with statistical reforms.
       While all states are eligible to participate in the nation-wide scheme (ISSP), the risk is mitigated
       by setting up clear and transparent criteria that guide the eligibility and readiness of states to enroll
       in the scheme, requirements of high-level commitment to the program objectives and specific steps
       for each participating state. The progressive enrollment of states as they become ready and
       incentives to sustain their progress provide flexibility in design to adjust the program design to
       each state's needs and capacity while setting common standards and criteria. The loan is thus
       based on an incremental process of establishing an effective framework as a "built in" risk
       mitigation measure. There are also in-built incentives for states to sustain their commitment to the
       implementation of the reform program. State Governments with better statistical performance may
       benefit from greater citizen support and better growth outcomes, as improved statistics lead to

                                                   40
       greater transparency, credibility and good governance, with high direct pay-offs with voters and
       citizens (enhanced by the Right to Information Act), and private investment responds to better
       governance and information. Both sets of incentives are increasingly evident in India (e.g., the
       rising interest of states and citizenshnvestors in report cards of comparative state performances in
       India).
        Weak coordination and learning outcomes. A significant part of the benefits are expected to
       follow from learning from demonstration effects and improved coordination between the states
       and the center and between each other. This risk of coordination failure is mitigated by the strong
       work program of the NSC, regular exchange of experience and expertise through COCSSO
       meetings, promoting of Go1 dialogue with all participants of statistical activities, including the line
       Ministries; establishing an adequate Go1 supervision system including close monitoring, wider
       dissemination of progress and concerns, and specific provisions in the Letter of Participation and
       the Memorandum of Understanding on coordination mechanisms.
       Failure of state-level DESs to implement the program because of limited implementation and
       leadership capacity of the DES and statistical units of the line departments. This is mitigated by
       formalizing the state commitment through the signing of a Letter of Participation and a subsequent
       detailed MoU, preparation of state-specific organizational priorities and giving adequate weight to
       DESs in the state strategic statistical plans; setting up high-level Steering Committees chaired by
       the Chief Secretary and subordinate implementation groups; and supervision by MOSPI.
       Lack of skilled and trained statistical manpower and cadre throughout the system. This risk is
       further amplified by current Government policy against expansion of Government employment
       that can affect the human capacity of both the national and the state statistical systems. This risk is
       mitigated by establishment of the National Academy of Statistical Administration and its program
       to expand the training of trainers at the central level and the proposed strengthening of regional
       training centers. In addition, efficiency improvements will also be possible through an increase in
       the efficiency of statistical operations, better use of data, and reducing unnecessary or duplicative
       data collections, including the coordination with line departments. Also the ways and means to
       simplify the recruitment rules for filling up the vacant posts are being explored by COCSSO.
       Financial Resource and Fiduciary risk. Implementation could be delayed because of states'
       inability to access adequate funds or procure inputs. Mitigation strategies include: states that
       enroll in the ISSP are committed to maintain an adequate recurrent budget for statistical activities
       through the LOPs and MoUs; there will be provision of financial management training in every
       state and verification of standards; and a reporting and supervision system will be used for
       identifying issues at early stage.

 134. Exit Mechanisms. For those states that have already signed LOPs, support for the preparation of
SSSPs is being provided from the World Bank trust fund, which is due to close on June 30, 2010. In
these states all disbursements under ISSP will follow the signing of MOUs. In states that sign an LOP
once the operation becomes effective, then there will usually be a small initial disbursements to help
states meet the expense of preparing their SSSPs. In all states, however, the main mechanism for
participating in the nation-wide scheme (ISSP) and for receiving financial and technical assistance from
MOSPI will be the signing of the MOU, which will supersede the LOP. The MOU will set out an agreed
implementation program for the strategic plan for reforming and strengthening the state statistical system.
It will specify agreed targets and goals and a mechanism for monitoring and reporting on progress; it will
also commit the state to providing all recurrent resources needed to maintain statistical activities. In
return for financial and technical support from the center, states will agree to improve the availability,
coverage and quality of their statistics and disbursements will be triggered by the extent to which each
state has achieved these targets and goals. If any state does not perform, therefore, or otherwise no longer
wishes to participate, these arrangements will provide for an exit mechanism for MOSPI. Participation in
the scheme will also be subject to a time limit set out in the MOU.



                                                  41
135 . The gains from supporting the program - in terms o better data leading to more effective policies
                                                            f
and service delivery - are considered to be large relative to the risks. It is not possible to quantify the
expected returns to a statistical strengthening program because of the difficulties in relating improvements
in welfare and well-being directly to improved statistics and the absence of any realistic counterfactual.
In general, the potential gains resulting from just a small marginal improvement in the design of a policy,
in implementation of a program or setting up more reliable monitoring indicators as a result of better
statistics are typically many orders of magnitude greater than the costs incurred in strengthening statistical
capacity. There is no reason to assume that the situation in India is any different.




                                                   42
ANNEX LETTER POLICY
    I:     OF




       43
     Xlectiari of data, in




44
45
46
47
     t   for key st&i,tical
     dmds by the CSO for


           stmdwds fmm




48
     ndations of the




49
50
51
52
53
54
55
     has reached a




56
57
      tb
    b a
    B .f




e
       ANNEX RELEVANT RECOMMENDATIONS 2001 NATIONAL
           11:                     OF THE         STATISTICAL
                          COMMISSION
                                  REPORT

The recommendations below are taken from the 2001 NSC Report retaining the paragraph num-
                                        bering (in bold/italics).
Indian Statistical System

                                    f
                 Coordinating Role o Central Statistical Organization (Para 14.2.15)

     1. The post of Director General (DG), Central Statistical Organization (CSO), should be
        immediately filled up.
     2. The practice of organizing the Conference of Central and State Statistical Organizations once in
        two years should be revived.
     3. A unit in the Central Statistical Organization should be created for proper documentation of
        various papers connected with the meetings of the various technical committees. The Central
        Statistical Organization should publish periodically technical monographs on different subjects
        piecing together recommendations relating to various issues.
     4. The Central Statistical Organization, as a coordinating agency, should maintain a pool of
        eminent experts in different subject areas. This would be useful for getting comments on various
        statistical matters quickly and also for constituting various committees and working groups on
        technical matters.

                                 Modernisation Project (Para 14.3.20)

     5 . It is understood that the project is under review by the Ministry of Statistics and Programme
         Implementation. While reviewing and reformulating it, the Ministry of Statistics and
         Programme Implementation should consider the recommendations made by this Commission on
         the various subjects and the components of the project may be modified accordingly, if
         necessary. For this, the project will have to shift its focus from expansion of sample surveys to
         improvement of the systemic issues of the administrative statistical system. Modernisation may
         be considered as a means for that purpose. It should also keep in view the essentially
         decentralised character of the Indian statistical system and ensure that the States' statistical
         systems are interwoven in the project architecture. (Note: The project referred to in line 1 above
         is the modernization project for the Indian Statistical System which had been under
         consideration from the late nineties)

Restructuring the Indian Statistical System
                   National Commission on Statistics (Paragraphs 14.5.1 to 14.5.6)

     6 . The creation of a permanent and statutory National Commission on Statistics (NCS) is
         envisaged as a pre-requisite for improving the System. This is more or less on the lines of the
         UK except that the Indian NCS would have more authority in certain respects to cope with the
         federal structure of the Indian polity.
     7 . The Commission recommends creation of a permanent and statutory apex body - the National
         Commission on Statistics - independent of the Government and responsible to the Parliament in
         respect of policy making, coordination and certification of quality of Core Statistics.




                                                 64
   The National Commission on Statistics should be entrusted with functions broadly categorized
   as follows so as to:

    a.     Serve as a nodal and empowered body for all core statistical activities of the country.
    b.     Evolve, monitor and enforce statistical priorities and standards.
    c.     Ensure strong co-ordination through a closer linkage between statistical programming
           and budgeting.

   The National Commission on Statistics will be constituted through an Act of Parliament. It will
   determine the areas of official statistics that are to be considered as core or critical to the
   functioning of the economy and accordingly prioritize the statistical activities of national
   statistical system. The statistics defined under critical areas could be called Core Statistics. The
   Core Statistics will have the following characteristics:

    a.     They should be of national importance;
    b.     It will be mandatory for the Governments at all levels to collect and disseminate them;
    c.     They should conform to prescribed definitions, concepts and standards laid down by the
           Commission;
    d.     They should be updated periodically, with suitable periodicity to be determined; and
    e.     They will be available at both aggregate and disaggregate levels, wherever appropriate.

10. The Core Statistics will be identified and accessed from all critical areas of the economy
   including agriculture, socio-economic sector, demographic, industrial, labor and employment,
   finance. The National Commission on Statistics will ensure that the production of statistics and
   their release are free from Government influence, by designating appropriate statistical
   institutions or functionaries to be solely and independently responsible for these functions. In
   designating the statistical institutions or functionaries for the collection and release of Core
   Statistics on different subjects, the National Commission on Statistics will adhere to the
   distribution of subjects in the Union, State, and Concurrent Lists of the Constitution of India.
   Though the compilation and release of statistics will be the sole responsibility of the agency
   concerned, the National Commission on Statistics will exercise a statistical audit over the
   statistical activities to ensure quality and integrity of the statistical products. The Act would
   empower the National Commission on Statistics to make it binding on all agencies responsible
   for the Core Statistics to comply with the directives of the National Commission on Statistics.
   The National Commission on Statistics would be required to submit its Report annually to
   Parliament regarding its own functioning, and that of other statistical agencies and about the
   statistical situation in the country.

1 1. The directive principle for the National Commission on Statistics will be that it shall work
     within the framework of a decentralized national statistical system, both laterally among Central
     Ministries and vertically among the State Governments. In this context, it would be pertinent to
     mention that the national-level statistics, in most cases, will be merely State-level aggregation of
     statistics. Particularly, its orientation shall be that:

    a. National statistics would mean entire set of statistics collected officially from
       administrative returns or through sample surveys.
    b. Statistics at the all-India level are an aggregation of State-level statistics in most cases.
    c. In advising on the collection of Core Statistics, the National Commission on Statistics
       would keep in view the optimum use of national resources, in context of essentially
       decentralized character of statistical system. The national resources mean the resources of
       both Central and State Governments together.


                                             65
    d. Further, the proposed system shall provide a direct approach by the States to the National
       Commission on Statistics on any statistical issue, and
    e. The States shall have the opportunity to bring directly to the notice of the National
       Commission on Statistics, their reservation on any policy decisions taken by the
       Commission and to request for its consideration.

                              Mission Stiitement (Para 14.5.7)

12. The Mission Statement of the Indian statistical system shall be to provide, within the
    decentralized structure of the system, reliable, timely and credible social and economic
    statistics, to assist decision-making within and outside the Government, stimulate research and
    promote informed debate relating to conditions affecting people's life.

                      National Statistical Organization (Para 14.5.12)

13. The National Commission on Statistics will operate through the National Statistical
    Organization (NSO), which will be the official agency to implement policy decisions of the
    National Commission on Statistics. The NSO will function as the single full-fledged
    department of the Ministry of Statistics of the Central Government headed by the National
    Statistician, who would be the Secretary of the Department. Essentially, the NSO would be the
    restructured form of the present Statistics Wing of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme
    Implementation. The National Statistician will be its technical and administrative Head. The
    National Statistician, would broadly be responsible for the following activities:

      a. To provide leadership to statistical activities by promoting coordination with components
         of the national statistical system, particularly with the State Directorates of Economics
         and Statistics;
      b. Assist in evolving and implementing the National Statistical Strategy;
      c. Assist the National Commission on Statistics to decide and reallocate statistical priorities;
      d. Promote reliability and integrity of statistics;
      e. Formulate and implement plan scheme in statistics (as ex-officio Adviser, Statistics to the
         Planning Commission).

             Functions of the National Statistical organization (Para 14.5.13)

14. The envisaged functions of the National Statistical Organization are enumerated below:
     a. Implement and maintain statistical standards and coordinate statistical activities of
         Central and State agencies as laid down by the National Commission on Statistics;
     b. Compile National Accounts according to the latest international standards at regular
         periodic intervals;
     c. Collect or arrange to collect Core Statistics, which have not been collected so far;
     d. Participate in regional, national, and international statistical forums and meetings;
     e. Carry out methodological research and studies;
     f. Publish Core Statistics at regular intervals together with critical analysis regarding the.
         quality of data and implication of the use of data in policy making and administration;
     g. Arrange in-service training course for statistical personnel, in cooperation with
         universities and research institutes;
     h. Maintain a "warehouse" for Core Statistics, for dissemination amongst all users in the
         public and private sectors inside and outside the country and serve as the sole provider of
         information to foreign Governments, international bodies and United Nations agencies.



                                            66
Improvement c,f Coortlincition with the States by Empowering the State Directorate of Economics
                           and Statistics (Parngrciphs 14.5.24 to 14.5.27)
15. The Directorates of Economics and Statistics should be formally entrusted with the
    responsibility for a periodic review of the content, methodology and output of the statistics of
    all State Departments and to make suggestions for the further improvement of these statistics.
    The Conference of Central and State Statisticians should be held regularly. A similar forum for
    a meeting of State Departmental Statisticians should be created by the State Governments to
    review the performance of the statistical system of each State. The report of the review and the
    suggestions may be forwarded by the Directorates of Economics and Statistics to NSO and by
    the departments to the corresponding ministries, for action at the Center.

16. The enhanced role of the Directorate of Economics and Statistics, and the wider technical
    discussion of the State's Statistics will help State Governments take a holistic view of the
    State's Statistical system to enhance its utility to the State Governments and indirectly to
    achieve the same result at the Center.

17. A Centrally-sponsored scheme for strengthening the statistical system in the States should be
    drawn up immediately for inclusion in the Tenth Five Year Plan, with the specific objectives of
    developing a survey and data-processing capability in the States.

18. The earlier mechanism of setting up working groups in the Central Statistical Organization to
    formulate the plan schemes in statistics at the all-India and State levels should be revived
    immediately for the Tenth Five Year Plan.
                        The States' Statistical Systems (Para 14.6.34)

19. The breakdown of the Administrative Statistical System needs the immediate attention of the
    highest authorities of State Governments. They are urged to take steps to reduce the burden of
    the additional work given to lowest-level Government functionaries such as patwaris and
    primary teachers so that they can effectively carry out the statistical functions assigned to them.

20. The authorities should also instruct the offices implementing different Acts and Rules to be
    vigilant that all relevant units file with them regularly the statutory statistical returns required
    by the Acts and Rules, and take necessary action under the Acts against the defaulting units.

21. The State Directorates of Economics and Statistics (DESs) should develop capabilities to
    tabulate data on demand and to analyze data from different sources. For this they should
    organize all the data that the State's statistical system possesses in an appropriate manner.

22. The State Governments should accord priority to computerization of administrative offices that
    generate administrative statistics.

23. The Directorate of Economics and Statistics should fully exploit the potential of their
    participation in the National Sample Survey programmed by using the survey data as a data-
    bank and by utilizing the survey mechanism for ad hoc collection of additional simple data
    required by the Government.

24. The State Governments should support the Directorate of Economics and Statistics in the
    creation of sample survey capabilities by creating sample survey divisions in them.

25. The State Governments should make the necessary resources available to the Directorate of
    Economics and Statistics for computerization and development of necessary software to make


                                             67
    the Directorate of Economics and Statistics self sufficient in this respect. This will help them to
    undertake tabulation of NSS data, which they are collecting in their matching samples.

26. The Directorate of Economics and Statistics should develop the necessary analytical
    capabilities to carry out data-analysis relevant to the problems of decision-making of the
    Government.

27. For strengthening the effectiveness of the statistical system of the Government, the State
    Governments should create a separate Department of Statistics by elevating the existing
    Directorate of Economics and Statistics to the level of a Department and the Director of the
    existing Directorate of Economics and Statistics to the level of Secretary to the Government.
    The Department of Statistics should have complete freedom in statistical work. The head of the
    Department of Statistics should be a professional statistician or a professional economist with
    experience in large-scale data collection and empirical analysis of data.

28. The State Governments should closely involve the Director of Directorate of Economics and
    Statistics in its decision-making processes by making him a member of or an invitee to
    committees and groups dealing with plans and programmers in substantive fields.

29. The State Governments should strengthen the role of the Directorates of Economics and
    Statistics as coordinators of their statistical activities by empowering them to take a technical
    review of the statistical activities of all departments every year. The Directorates of Economics
    and Statistics should also be asked to make a report to the Government of its comments on and
    suggestions for these activities. The Directorates of Economics and Statistics should also be
    authorized to convene a biennial conference to review the State statistical system and its
    activities.

30. The State Governments should take steps to create a common statistical cadre and State
    Statistical Service for manning statistical posts in all departments.

31. The heads of the departments of the State Governments should closely involve their
    departmental statisticians in their decision-making process. To give institutional support to their
    role, the departmental statisticians should be placed directly under the head of the department.

32. In view of the renewed importance of the Block Statistical Organization in the context of local
    area planning, the State Governments should bring it directly within the fold of the States?
    Statistical System by either transferring the organization to their Directorates of Economics and
    Statistics, or by making it responsible for its statistical work to the Directorate and bringing it
    under the Directorate?s technical supervision through the district statistical organization.

33. The State Governments may consider setting up commissions or committees to advise them on
    the manner of implementation of these recommendations and on other issues relating to States?
    statistical system.

                      Technical coordination in the States (Para 2.2.6)

34. To improve the coordination within the State statistical systems, the State Directorates of
    Economics and Statistics must be made responsible for technical coordination with all State
    Departments in respect of the content, methodology and dissemination of statistics




                                            68
          Information Technologyin the Indian Statistical system (Para 14.Z31)

 3 5 . It is essential to establish strong communication links between:

       a. The National Statistical Organization (NSO) and all its subordinate offices;
       b. The National Statistical Organization and all Central Ministries with substantial statistical
          output;
       c. The National Statistical Organization and all State Directorates of Economics and
          Statistics (DESs);
       d. The National Sample Survey Office and its Survey Design and Research Division, Data
          Processing Division, Field Operation Division and Coordination and Publication
          Division;
       e. Headquarters of Data Processing Division, Field Operation Division and their respective
          subordinate offices;
       f. State Directorate of Economic and Statistics and statistics divisions of the departments.

 36. These offices should be networked through one or more Internet Service Providers, and for
     one or more Virtual Private Network. A dedicated computer network is neither necessary nor
     desirable and would not at all be cost effective.

 37. Urgent steps must be taken to strengthen computer hardware and software systems in the State
     DESs.

                                Human Resource Development

                             Training (Paras 14:lO.16 & 14.10.1 7)

38.   A suitable Central Training Facility for Indian Statistical Service officers and senior statistical
      officers of State, Governments, equipped with accommodation, arrangement for food, lecture
      rooms, computer laboratory, and library should be constructed for trainees and visiting
      teachers.

39.   The content of the Junior and Senior Certificate Courses in Statistics should be reorganised
      into smaller modules and offered on a large scale to the supporting statistical personnel (both
      from the Central and State Governments) who need training at this level. The training also
      should be decentralised and organised by State Directorates of Economic and Statistics. The
      Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation should organise Training of Trainers
      Sessions for this program.

40.   The Commission further recommends that a high-level committee should be set up by the
      Government to evolve a long-term plan for assessing and effectively meeting the training
      needs for the Central and State Statistical Systems, consistent with what would be expected
      from the system. The said committee should also be required to examine in this connection
      whether a Staff Training Institute is necessary and feasible, or, whether the need could be met
      through cooperation with existing organizations. Such a Committee could comprise as its
      members, amongst others, the Director of the Indian Statistical Institute as also the envisaged
      National Statistician besides eminent statisticians with proven academic and professional
      credentials.




                                             69
                       111:        STATISTICAL
                   ANNEX THENATIONAL                 (NSC)
                                            COMMISSION

                                               BACKGROUND

One of the key recommendations of the National Statistical Commission in its 2001 Report was to
establish a permanent National Commission on Statistics to serve as a nodal and empowered body for all
core statistical activities of the country, evolve, monitor and enforce statistical priorities and standards and
to ensure statistical co-ordination among the different agencies involved. The Report also recommended
that the Commission be set up initially through a Government order. In line with the above
recommendations, the Government of India ordered the setting up of a permanent National Statistical
Commission (NSC) through Government Resolution No. A-1 1011/1/2005-Ad.1 on 1'' June 2005. The
present NSC assumed charge on July 12,2006.

                                                 FUNCTIONS

The NSC performs the following functions:

        1. to identify the core statistics, which are of national importance and are critical to the
            development of the economy;
        2. to constitute professional committees or working groups to assist the Commission on various
            technical issues;
        3. to evolve national policies and priorities relating to the statistical system;
        4. to evolve standard statistical concepts, definitions, classifications and methodologies in
            different areas in statistics and lay down national quality standards on core statistics;
        5. to evolve national strategies for the collection, tabulation and dissemination of core statistics,
            including the release calendar for various data sets;
        6. to evolve national strategies for human resource development on official statistics including
            information technology and communication needs of the statistical system;
        7 . to evolve measures for improving public trust in official statistics;
        8. to evolve measures for effective co-ordination with State Governments and Union Territory
            Administrations on statistical activities including strengthening of existing institutional
            mechanisms;
        9. to exercise statistical co-ordination between Ministries, Departments and other agencies of
            the Central Government;
        10. to exercise statistical audit over the statistical activities to ensure quality and integrity of the
            statistical products;
        11. to recommend to the Central Government, or any State Government, as the case may be,
            measures to effectively implement the standards, strategies and other measures evolved under
            clauses (c) to (h);
        12. to advise the Government on the requirement of legislative measures on statistical matters
            including the statute for the National Statistical Commission;
        13. to monitor and review the functioning of the statistical system in the light of the laid down
            policies, standards and methodologies and recommend measures for enhanced performance.




                                                    70
    Iv:
ANNEX CONFERENCE OF CENTRAL AND STATE STATISTICAL ORGANIZATIONS                                (cocsso)
1.       In order to strengthen the coordination of statistical activities between the Ministry of Statistics
and Programme Implementation, other Central Ministries and State Statistical Organizations, the
Conference of Central and State Statistical Organizations (COCSSO) was organized for the first time in
1971. The coordinating role of the Central Statistical Organization has been examined by National
Statistical Commission and more recently by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance.

2.     With the approval of the Competent Authority, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme
Implementation has set the following objectives of the Conference of Central and State Statistical
Organizations (COCSSO):

       To provide a platform for discussion on the statistical issues of common interest to the Central and
       the State Statistical Organizations;
       To provide an overall perspective to the development of statistical system and to make
       recommendations/suggestions on issues having bearing on the development of the statistical
       system;
       To solve the technical issues relating to statistics;
       To set up Working Groups on specific issuedtasks relating to official statistics;
       To provide guidelines in the collection of statistics and maintenance of statistical standards and
       quality, besides uniformity in statistical Standards;
       To consider the Action Taken Report of the follow up action on the recommendations of the
       previous meeting(s) of COCSSO; and
       To review the role of the Statistical Advisers in the Central and StatesiUT Governments.

        COCSSO now meets every year for two days in the period from September to November.

         The Standing Committee on Conference of Central and State Statistical Organizations has also
been reconstituted. This has seven permanent Members including the Member -Secretary and five
representatives from States and Union Territories (one from eight North-Eastern States including Sikkim,
one from UTs, and three from the remaining States). Each State/UT has a tenure of one year and is
chosen in alphabetical order separately for North-Eastern States/UTs/Other States. The venue of the
conference is also be determined on a rotational basis and is hosted by one of the States/UTs represented
in the Standing Committee.

5.     Each COCSSO generally considers three important statistical issuedsubjects. While CSO
develops the basic concept papers, the States, line Ministries and Research Institutes/Organizations also
make presentations on the relevant subjects/issues.




                                                  71
                  SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS
                                        OF THE 14TH              coC~~o4' APRIL 2007
                                                                      10-11

14.1           STRENGTHENING OF STATE STATISTICAL           BUREAUS
                                                                  INCLUDING CORE STATISTICS AND
               ROLE STATISTICAL ADVISERS
                    OF

14.1.1         Phase-I1 of India Statistical Strengthening Program (ISSP) should be completed in a time
               bound manner, certainly by December, 2007.
14.1.2         National Statistical Commission will take up with the State Governments the need to
               empower Directorate of Economics & Statistics to play the nodal role in coordinating the
               statistical activities within the State.
14.1.3


14.1.4


14.2           STANDARDIZED SET OF STATISTICAL PRODUCTS/PUBLICATION FOR STATES
14.2.1         The CSO should finalize a minimum set of Statistical ProductsPublications within next two
               weeks to be sent to all the States. The product should include the indicators recommended
               under the ICT, MDG and Dev-info. The States will indicate a firm calendar for release of
               these products/publications.
14.2.2         All State Statistical Bureaus should have dedicated web-site.
14.2.3         The State should develop e-publications to reduce cost and time lag. The DG, CSO will
               provide the prototype for the same.

                                                  c
                SPECmIC RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 15TH o c ~ ~ o ,
                                                          FEBRUARY
                                                                 7-8,2008


                Action Taken on the Recommendations of 14`h COCSSO
15.1           STRENGTHENING OF STATE STATISTICAL BUREAUS                  INCLUDING CORE STATISTICS AND
               ROLE STATISTICAL ADVISERS
                       OF
15.1.1         Conference noted that Phase-I1 of Tier-I of the India Statistical Strengthening Project(1SSP)
               has been completed as scheduled, and work regarding formulation of Statistical Master Plan
               (SMP) is at an advanced stage of progress. It was decided that this work may be completed
               expeditiously and progress reviewed in next i.e. 16th COCSSO.
15.1.2         Conference noted that 20 DESs have already been declared as "Nodal Agency" for
               coordinating statistical activities in the StatesiUTs. In respect of remaining StateskJTs, matter
               may be taken up by NSC with those StateiUT Governments;
15.1.3         Wherever "Nodal Agency" status has already been granted to the DES, they must make all
               possible efforts to utilize the empowerment to play their role more effectively by taking
               initiatives in a proactive fashion for establishing their usefulness in the State / UT public
               administration;
15.1.4         On the lines of COCSSO, regular "Conferences of the Ministers-in-Charge" of Statistics may
               be organized once in, say 3 years, with a view to according greater importance to official
               statistics in the public administration of the StateiUT;


47   Details available on MOSPI web-site : http://mospi.nic.in/mospi-cocsso,htm


                                                     72
15.1.5       Whenever major statistical activities are taken up by Central or State/UT Departments,
             including sample surveys, it should be made mandatory for them to inform and involve
             concerned Central / State level nodal statistical agencies;
15.1.6       The role and functions of the Statistical Advisers positioned in the States should be finalized
             by the MOS & PI at the earliest.
15.2         WEB-SITE OF DE%, E-PUBLICATIONS AND STANDARDIZED SET OF STATISTICAL
             PRODUCTS/pUBLICATIONS FOR STATES
15.2.1       CSO should provide the States with a proto-type of the web site which can be used as an
             indicative frame work for use by DESs as the basis for developing their own web sites;
15.2.2       Existing web site of M/o Statistics & PI should be re-designed for effecting improvements
             using the best practices followed nationally and internationally with regard to scope, design,
             layout and contents of user friendly web sites. For the purpose, a Committee under the
             chairmanship of DG, CSO may be constituted including members from international agencies
             like UNICEF who have expertise in the field;
15.2.3       In view of increasing cost of bringing out printed versions of publications and the resulting
             delays, State DESs should improve their efforts towards bringing out e-publications by them
             periodically;
15.2.4       The State DESs should also develop e-libraries which are much more cost effective and
             versatile. They may approach CSO for any technical support or assistance for the purpose, if
             required.
15.3          STATISTICS FROM ADMINISTRATIVE
                                          RECORDS
15.3.1       Emphasis was given on Public-Private-Partnership on Generation of Statistics which cannot
             be done through Official Statistical System;
15.3.2       The COCSSO expresses a serious concern about the present status of statistics collected from
             administrative records associated with official statistics.
15.3.3       It recommends a critical examination according to specific thematic groups.

15'3'4
15.3.5
         1   Nodal Statistical Agencies in the States / UTs should play a proactive supervisory /
             monitoring role in collection of primary data by other Government Agencies.
             Efforts should be made toward rationalization, simplification and consolidation of primary
             Statistical Returns from administrative records by monitoring their completeness, accuracy
             and timely submission and their digitization wherever feasible.
15.3.6       Extension of I.T. infrastructure to the grass root level and its appropriate application in
             collection of administrative statistics are strongly recommended.

             SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE 16TH c o c s s o , DECEMBER
                                                                       4-5,2008

16.1                         TAKEN ON THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF 1
              REVIEW OF ACTION                                                  4 & ~ ~ cocsso
                                                                                    1 5 ~ ~
              The 16thCOCSSO, while expressing satisfaction with the action taken so far, recommended
              the following:
16.1.1        As per the recommendations of the 15th COCSSO, a National Conference of Ministers
              In-charge of Statistics of States / UTs was organized by MOSPI on 9.9.2008 at Delhi.
              Similarly, Regional Conferences of Ministers In-charge of Statistics of concerned States
              should also be organized.                            {Action: All State / UT DES}
16.1.2        A model draft notification for declaring State DESs as Nodal Agency should be prepared,
              and sent to those DESs, which are not yet been declared as Nodal Agencies.
                                                             {Action: CAD, MOSPI, All State / UT DESs}


                                                  73
16.1.3   Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) may take up with StateAJT
         Chief Secretaries for effectively empowering State/UT DESs to act as nodal agencies, and
         involving them in all the statistical activities of the States / UTs.
                                                        {Action: CAD, MOSPI and All State / UT DESs}
16.1.4   The MOSPI should expedite the preparation of Manual on Infrastructure Statistics, giv-
         ing clearly the concepts, definitions and methodology etc for uniformity in the compilation
         of infrastructure statistics by Central and State agencies.
                                                                                     {Action: ESD, CSO)
16.1.5   Pursuing the recommendation made in the 15* COCSSO about Public-Private Partner-
         ship in Collection of Statistics to take care-of problems of acute manpower shortage in the
         State DESs and Central Departments, States are advised to consult the study report on
         "Survey Capabilities of the Private Sector", available at \+w.mospi.gov.in for possible
         outsourcing.
                                                                            {Action: All State / UT D E S }
16.1.6   In view of the need for improving official statistics from Administrative Records, specific
         thematic subjects may be-taken u p as important part of the agenda in the forthcoming
         cocssos.
                                                                                  {Action: CAD, MOSPI}
16.4     DATA   REQUIREMENTS FOR PLANNING IN STATES
         The conference emphasized the need for making available timely, reliable and credible data
         covering certain key areas such as physical infrastructure, social sector programmes and
         State Domestic Product not only for planning and effective management / monitoring but
         also for private Investors and general Public in the changed scenario of economic liberali-
         zation. The Conference noted the need for making available data at the Sub-State levels for
         planning, and made the following recommendations.
16.4.1   The Planning Department should make a realistic assessment of data and indicators re-
         quired for sub State level planning process, and convey them to DES so that areas needing
         attention v i s - h i s availability in terms of periodicity and timeliness are identified for ne-
         cessary actions.
                                                       {Action: State/UT Planning Departments & DESs}
16.4.2   The Directorate of Economics and Statistics (DES) need to actively promote their role as
         nodal agency by effectively demonstrating the utility of data compiled from multiple
         sources, for informed planning and policy applications, and by produce reports/ studies in
         important areas of policy making.
                                                                             {Action: All State / UT DESs)
16.4.3   The State Planning Departments should develop effective mechanism for collection & col-
         lation of the regular flow of data available from administrative records and these should be
         duly supplemented with the data produced by periodical censuses and sample surveys.
                                             {Action: All State/UT Planning Departments and DES}
16.4.4   Mechanism also needs to be evolved for effective validation, storage, retrieval, transmis-
         sion and processing of the administrative data using modem tools of Information and
         Communication Technology.
                                                             {Action: State Planning Departments/ DESs}
16.4.5   Recourse could also be taken to established methods of Small Area Estimation to arrive at
         estimates at district and sub-district levels from survey data.
                                                             {Action: State Planning Departments/ DESs}
16.4.6   The States / UTs should effectively use Planning Commission's programme for strengthen-
         ing planning machinery (including manpower) at district level, and the coordination be-
         tween line departments and DESs.
                                                             {Action: State Planning Departments/ DESs}
16.4.7   The DESs should study the data available in the system which can be used for planning at


                                               74
          sub-district level, and make it available to Planners in the StatesKJT.
                                                                           {Action: All State / UT DESSI
16.5      MANPOWER SHORTAGES AND WAYS TO MANAGE
          The Conference noted the rising requirements for data at Sub-State level as also emerging
          areas in the era of decentralized planning, and; the serious constrains on the availability of
          statistical manpower. After due consideration of alternatives suggested in the papers pre-
          sented in the conference, the conference noted the urgent need for tackling the manpower
          shortages & skills which are affecting the delivery of statistical products, and recommend-
          ed that:
16.5.1    In view of manpower shortages, there is need to rationalize the responsibilities for data col-
          lection in tune with the manpower availability. The DESs may effectively coordinate with
          the line departments for compilation of statistical available at different levels within the
          State Administration.                                 {Action: All State / UT DESSI
16.5.2    An Expert Group may be constituted by MOSPI to assess the training requirements of var-
          ious levels of statistical personnel within the Central Government as well State Govern-
          ments so as to increase the efficiency.
                                                                      {Action: NASA, CSO, MOS&PI)
16.5.3    Ways and means should be explored on priority basis to amend and simplify the recruit-
          ment rules for filling up of vacant posts on regular basis. With regard to the emerging
          areas for which there are demands for data purposes, recruitment of Contract Investigators
          for data collection may be explored.
                         {Action: All State / UT DESs; All Central Ministries; CSO/NSSO of MOS&PI)
16.5.4    A strategy for human resource development should be framed by NASA with a view to en-
          hancing the skill development and capacity building of the statistical personnel at different
          levels at Center and States.
                                                                      {Action: NASA, CSO, MOS&PI)
16.5.5    Use of IT tools for data collection, analysis and presentation may be explored at least for
          the shorter schedules of enquiry.
                                             {Action: NSSO/ ESD, CSO/ NAD, CSO; All State/UT DESs)
16.5.6    The NSC may take up the matter of manpower shortage at the highest level of administra-
          tion in this regard, both at the Center and States.
                                                                                {Action: NSC, MOSPI)

J~XCERPTS THE MINUTES OF THE FIRST MEETING OF THE STANDING COMMITTEE
           OF
  ON 17TH CONFERENCE OF CENTRAL AND STATE STATISTICAL ORGANIZATIONS
     The first meeting of the Standing Committee for 17'hCOCSSOs was held in July 2009




r
17.1      Review of Action Taken on the Recommendations of 16' COCSSO, including

17.1.1    Presentation by M/o Agriculture and Cooperation on the status of recommendations con-
          cerning Horticulture Statistics made in 14`h/ 15' COCSSO.
                                      {Action: Horticulture Division, W o Agriculture & Cooperation)
17.1.2    Presentation of MOSPI (Training Division) on the status of recommendation made in 16`h
          COCSSO (No. 16.5.2 and 16.5.4) on "Expectations of StatesKJTs from the NASA"
                                                                                {Action: NASA, CSO)
          Presentation of MOSPI (Economic Statistics Division) on the status of recommendation
          made in 16`hCOCSSO on Infrastructure Statistics.
                                                                                  {Action: ESD, CSO)




                                               75
17.3     Employment Statistics
17.4     Consumer Price Indices by States - Need for Uniformity
17.5     Expectations of StatesLJTs from data collected by Central Government, particularly with
         regard to ASI, Economic Census, Enterprise Survey and Employment-Un-employment
         Surveys
17.6     Economic Census
         Review of Action Taken on the Recommendations of the 16' COCSSO, including
16.1.1   NSC may review the recommendation of National Conference of Ministers In-charge of
         Statistics about upgradation of the Post of Director, DES, and follow-up with StatesLJTs;
         {Action: NSC)
16.1.2   Reminders may be issued to Chief Secretaries of StatesLJTs which have not yet been de-
         clared their DES as Nodal Agency for statistical matters in the StateLJT, sending also a
         copy of the draft notification;                                     {Action: CAD, MOSPI)
16.1.3   Reminders may be issued to StatesLJTs which have declared their States as Nodal Agency
         for empowering the State DES for performing their role as Nodal Agency;
                                                                              {Action: CAD, MOSPI)
16.4.5   To arrive at estimates at District and Sub-district level, and use of established methods
         of Small Area Estimation, States may take up the matter while drafting State Strategic
         Statistical Plans under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme of ISSP;
                                                                    {Action: DESs and SSD, CSO)
16.5.6   As the matter of strengthening the Statistical System comes under the purview of NSC,
         they should take up the matter of manpower shortage at the highest possible level of
         administration both at Centre and States, as recommended by 16* COCSSO
                                                                                       {Action: NSC)




                                            76
                                   V:            COMMITTEE
                               ANNEX ISSP-STEERING

1.       With the approval of competent authority, a Steering Committee has been constituted under the
Chairmanship of Secretary (S&PI) to monitor the implementation of the World Bank aided India
Statistical Strengthening Project (ISSP) in the Tier-11.

2.       The Steering Committee has the following Composition:




3.       The terms of reference of the Steering Committee are:

         To formulate and issue all policy directives and prescriptions related to the implementation of the
         Project.
         To approve proposed schedules and time frames tabled by the bodies it supervises;
         To approve the selection of consultants, (both individuals and institutions);
         To approve any reports on the state of the project's implementation required by the Project's
         stakeholders (GOI, World Bank);
         To settle any conflicts that may arise involving those in charge of implementing the project; and
         To provide rulings on matters in which the project's objectives or TOR are not as clear as
         required for operational purposes.
         To take follow up action on the Tier-I studies; and
         To take action on the preparation and implementation of Tier-I1
         Any other matter related to India Statistical Strengthening Project.

4.      The committee can co-opt any number of experts as members as required for the purpose of
completing/implementing/monitoring work in a stipulated time. The Committee may meet as often as
                                    the
required. Non-official Member, if any, may be paid a sitting fee, T A D A and/or local contingency as per
the prevailing rules.

5.     The first meeting of the Steering Committee for India Statistical Strengthening Project, (ISSP)
was held under the Chairmanship of Secretary, Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation
(MOSPI) in June, 2009. The key points of agenda were:

     Consider the names of the Consultants sent by the States for preparation of State Strategic Statistical
     Plan (SSSP).



                                                  77
Consider for approval the panel of consultants whose CVs were received by the Ministry for prepara-
tion of State Strategic Statistical Plan (SSSP). The Steering Committee decided that MOSPI need not
prepare a panel of consultants at the level of MOSPI but instead it may prepare a list of potential con-
sultants, and forward the names and contact details of the willing consultants for examination to the
interested StatesRJTs, as an information, without any recommendations (explicit or implicit) from the
Government of India. The selection of the consultants needs to be done at the StateRJT level only.

Some States had proposed in-house preparation of SSSP.

The Steering Committee reiterated that the SSSPs are to be prepared in line with the LOPS,endorsed
by all stakeholders through vigorous consultant process.




                                              78
    VI:
ANNEX          SYNTHESIS OF THE 35 STUDY REPORTS ON IDENTIFYING SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS
                    FOR STRENGTHENING OF STATE STATISTICAL SYSTEMS4*

                                                  SUMMARY

The Synthesis Report, prepared by MOSPI serves, among other uses, as a reference document for States
when they are preparing their individual State Strategic Statistical Plans. The document has a fonvard-
looking focus and the main contents are proposals for a national benchmark for norms and performance
standards for the State statistical system, and recommendations concerning what has to be done to fill
gaps in State statistical capacity to undertake the specified set of 20 core statistical activities. These main
contents are supplemented by a brief summary of the key characteristics of the State statistical systems
and the estimated financial requirements related to strengthening the information technology base and
physical infrastructure as part of the necessary capacity building.

                            The Synthesis Report consists of the following:

Chapter 1     Introduction
Chapter 2     Key characteristics of the State statistical system
Chapter 3     Proposed national benchmarks for norms and performance standards for the State statistical
              systems
Chapter 4     Recommendations on what has to be done to fill gaps in State capacity
Chapter 5     Estimated costs for information technology and physical infrastructure for capacity building

Overview
 1.       The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MOSPI) in the Government of India,
has initiated the India Statistical Strengthening Project (ISSP), with assistance from the World Bank, the
long-term objective of which is to help in achieving the proposal of the National Statistical Commission
(NSC) in its 2001 Report that " The mission of the Indian Statistical System shall be to provide, within
the decentralized structure of the system, reliable, timely and credible social and economic statistics, to
assist decision making within and outside the Government, stimulate research and promote informed de-
bate relating to conditions affecting people's life". (The Mission is modified in the National Strategic Sta-
tistical Plan, June 2008 para 2.5)

2.      Phase I of the ISSP resulted in the production of 35 Study Reports on Identifying Specific Re-
quirements for strengthening State Statistical Bureaus (SSBs) March 2007, one for each State. In Phase I1
the 35 Study Reports of Phase I were summarized, and with other material, became the basis for the
present document called the Synthesis of the 35 Study Reports.

3.       The Synthesis has a fonvard-looking focus. It contains proposals for a national benchmark for
norms and performance standards for the State statistical systems (SSS). It also contains (i) recommenda-
tions concerning what has to be done to fill gaps in State statistical capacity to undertake a specified set of
20 core statistical activities, (ii) a brief summary of the key characteristics of the SSSs, (iii) the estimated
costs of strengthening the information technology base and physical infrastructure as part of the necessary
capacity building, and (iv) analytical conclusions concerning the Study Reports and their potential use in
developing State Strategic Statistical Plans (SSSPs). The recommendations, key features, and costs are
largely based on the 35 Study Reports.


48
  Excerpts from the published State Synthesis Report. Detailed report available on MOSPI web-site-
http://mospi.nic.in/issp-synthesis-35-reports-25apr08 .pdf


                                                    79
4.      It is anticipated that the existing individual Study Reports will remain the repository of the indi-
vidual State recommendations and details of the estimated costs of strengthening the information technol-
ogy base and physical infrastructure, until superseded by the individual SSSPs.

5.      This document is expected to serve, among other uses, as a reference document for States when
they are preparing their individual State SSSPs.

6.      Completion of the Phase I1 activities, represented by the Synthesis Report has allowed for pro-
gression in the ISSP onto activities of implementation.

The coverage of activities
7.        The Study Reports cover the activities of the SSBs and the line departments related to the 20 core
statistical activities. They also recognize and list the additional (significant) activities of the SSBs and the
State line departments related to other official statistics.

The SSSs
8.       The system of official statistics in the States of India is, like in the Government of India, a decen-
tralized one. The SSBs collect, compile, analyse and disseminate general socio-economic statistics across
a range of fields; the individual State line departments are responsible for collection, processing and re-
leasing of the data in their own subject fields.

9.       There is a wide variability in the number of the core activities that are assigned to the SSBs. It
ranges from zero (one State) to fourteen (one State), with the most common number being six series (6
States) and the majority of States being responsible for between five and ten series (28 States). In virtually
all States, responsibility for one or two of the series is shared by the SSB with a line department. The oth-
er core activities are carried out by the State level line departments eg. school enrolment data by the Di-
rectorate of Education.

Proposed national benchmark for norms and performance standards for the SSS
10.       The norms and standards cover such elements as methodological soundness, accuracy and relia-
bility; usefulness /serviceability (including periodicity and timeliness); accessibility, integrity and quality;
and a number of legal, institutional professional, transparency and ethical issues. Methodological sound-
ness, accuracy and reliability require strict application of the technical guidelines/manuals/instructions
issued centrally by the Central Statistical Organization. Proposed standards for periodicity and timeliness
of statistical activities reflect the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Special Data Dissemination Stan-
dard and General Data Dissemination System. Specific benchmarks are proposed relating to accessibility,
integrity and quality and for a number of legal, institutional professional, transparency and ethical issues,
all reflecting the IMF Data Quality Assessment Framework (DQAF).

 11.      The proposed national benchmark for norms and performance standards for the SSS is a set of
consistent statistical standards to be applied in all the States. It will permit high quality statistics to be
produced for State level purposes, will provide for as uniform as possible statistical results across the
States and useful interstate comparability, and upon aggregation across the States will provide high quali-
ty national statistics. The proposed benchmark reflects good statistical practice consistent international
statistical standards.

12.      The long term objective is that all States will have the capacity to carry out the 20 core statistical
activities meeting the national benchmark for norms and performance standards. It is recognized that, giv-
en the current capacity differences and priorities among the States, and their unique economic and social
characteristics, the States will approach the long term objective at different rates and with different em-
phasis on various elements of the national benchmark.


                                                    80
Recommendations
13.     From the 35 Study Reports there are recommendations that are (i) common to all States and (ii)
unique to a State or a small number of States. There are recommendations made by the NSC in its report
issued in 2001; there are also recommendations which have emerged during the process of reviewing the
35 Study Reports.

        The common recommendations relate to:
        Improving the functioning of the SSBs
        Obtaining feedback from data users, particularly through seminars
        Managing data quality
        Providing adequate numbers and quality of human resources; establishing a comprehensive train-
        ing programme and appropriate training facilities
        Establishing a State-level Data Bank at the SSB
        Strengthening information technology including hardware, software, connectivity, and working
        environment; establishing an EDP Center in the SSB
        Providing appropriate physical infrastructure
        Establishing a statistical cadre in each State; managed by the SSB;
        Improving dissemination through 6 specific steps
        Improving quality of data through 9 specific steps;
        Establishing priorities particularly focusing on medium and low quality activities; but not forget-
        ting high quality activities
        Filling data gaps related to the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendments and for monitoring
        achievement of the Millennium Development Goals
        Addressing inadequacies in rawlsource data
        Using information technology for transmission of rawhource data

15. Recommendations that are unique to one or a small number of States include:
       Using SSB staff rather than Revenue Staff for data collection activities
       Establishing district level statistical committees
       Upgrading the level of district statistical officers
       Providing desktop publishing facilities or permitting outsourcing of printing
       Outsourcing some information technology facility management

 16.     The NSC recommendations are extremely important; some of them are already reflected in the
common recommendations in the Study Reports. Other recommendations emerged during the review
process such as recommendations on enacting State-level statistical legislation and on engaging in statis-
tical advocacy.

Data gaps and action areas
17.      Data gaps are listed for many of the core statistical activities in the States; these are in terms of
absence of a particular statistical activity in the State, incomplete coverage in relation to the technical
specifications, poor quality of data collection, supervision, and scrutiny, insufficiently frequent data col-
lection and others.

18.     Of the 20 core activities, those most frequently identified (in the largest number of States) as
needing technical measures to bridge the data gaps or as new activities for strengthening the statistical
system, were State Domestic Product and District Domestic Product, Poverty Statistics, Gross Fixed Cap-
ital Formation and Saving, Statistics for Local Area Planning, Housing Statistics, Wholesale Price Index,
Health Statistics, and Birth and Death Registration. The most commonly recommended action areas
beyond the 20 core statistical activities were services statistics and tourism statistics.


                                                   81
Priorities
19.     In the Study Reports it is reported that the SSBs and State line departments perceive all the 20
core statistical activities as important and of equal priority. In terms of guidance on future priorities two
options were provided in the Reports, namely prioritization based on (i) demand for statistical informa-
tion; and on (ii) current quality of statistical output.

20.     The basis for the demand-driven priority assignment reflects general arguments on the need for
certain sets of statistics for policy purposes. Overall, the 20 core statistical activities are completely or
predominately assigned high priority in all of the States.

2 1.     The Quality-driven prioritization is based on an assessment of the quality of the statistical activi-
ties in each State using a limited/modified IMF DQAF analysis concentrating on accuracy and reliability
indicators. Overall, the 20 core statistical activities were spread across the priority range including high,
medium and low priority.

22.     No recommendations are made about changing priorities in State operations, but the presentation
of the Demand-driven and Quality-improvement-driven priorities offers the States some direction when
they do address priorities within their SSSPs.

Estimated costs
23.      According to the Study Reports the average estimated costs per State to achieve the recommended
                                          s
improvements in statistical capacity are R 942 lakhs total, Rs 21 5 lakhs for information technology infra-
structure and Rs 727 lakhs for physical infrastructure; in terms of the components of information technol-
ogy and physical infrastructure the largest single element of the total cost is office space at Rs 21091
lakhs which is 64 % of the total. The second largest element is hardware and software for the district sta-
tistical offices and other organizational levels below SSB headquarters at Rs 4747 lakhs or 14% of the
total.

24.     Other major costs to be included in the SSSPs are annual hardware maintenance costs, hardware
upgrades, solid cell batteries, and internet site hosting charges (estimated in the Synthesis Report), and
costs for coordination, statistical infrastructure, technical advice on statistical operations such as imple-
menting recommendations to fill gaps and improve statistical capacity, and advice on improving opera-
tions (not estimated)

25.     The estimates need to be treated with caution, and as order of magnitude, rather than actual esti-
mates of costs. The estimates are taken as given in the Study Reports and were not subject to assessment.
The formulas for calculating maintenance costs, upgrade costs etc were taken as given and not subject to
assessment. A footnote in the Study Reports indicates that prices used in calculating the costs were street
prices as at October 1 1, 2006 in New Delhi; estimates would have to be updated because of the passage of
time and technology changes.

Some conclusions
26.      The Study Reports contain a substantial assessment of the S S S s and recommendations for im-
provements. The Reports will be useful for strategic planning but States will need to (i) broaden the cov-
erage to cover all statistical activities in the States; (ii) reconcile some of the recommendations with the
identified gaps especially for the activities of some line departments like education and health; (iii) set
priorities more selectively and reconcile some of the recommendations with the options suggested on
priorities ; (iv) balance the recommendations on physical infrastructure, information technology and hu-
man resources by extended recommendations on operational issues (v) pay attention to implementation
issues and (vi) take account of constraints on human resources increases.


                                                   82
Next Steps
27.      In preparing their SSSPs each State will need to do a comprehensive review of the assessments,
recommendations and cost estimates in the Study Reports and the Synthesis Report taking into account
the full range of statistical work conducted by the major State line departments that produce official statis-
tics.




Table 6: Baseline for States

                                                           Production    Social, envi-
                                                            and La-       ronmental
                                                           bour Mar-      and demo-
                                                           ket Statis- graphic statis-     Other
                                                              tics           tics         Activities Total
                                                                  0.93             1.31            0   0.7
                                                                   2.0              3 .O         1.0   1.8
                                                                  0.97 I           1.36 I      0.65 I 1.0
                                                                   2.0              3 .O         1.0   2.2
                                                                   1.3             1.61        0.75    1.3

                                                                    2.0 I              3.0    I     2.0   I   2.3
                                                                    1.2                1.5          0.7       1.2
                                                                    2.0                3 .O         1.6       2.2




                                                  83
                       VII: THENATIONAL
                   ANNEX              STRATEGIC STATISTICAL PLAN49


I. Background

1.1       The Indian Official Statistical System is decentralized and consists of the National Statistical
System involving mostly national level estimatedaggregates and the State Statistical System (SSS)
involving mostly State/UT level estimatedaggregates. The federal structure of the country has influenced
the organikation of the Indian Statistical System. The collection of statistics for different subject-specific
areas like Agriculture, Industry, Finance, Labour etc. vests with the corresponding administrative
Ministries and regulatory bodies of the Government of India. Much of the statistical information is
collected as a by-product of administration and regulation or for monitoring the progress of specific
programmes. The subject Ministries / Departments in the Central and State Governments have their own
statistical organizations, units or cells depending on the need and extent of development of statistics in the
relevant fields. These statistical offices are independent in the sense that the programmes and budgets are
controlled by their own Ministry / Department. However, the Central Statistical Organization (CSO) is,
inter-alia, bestowed with the responsibility of statistical co-ordination, standard setting and training. It is
the nodal agency for a planned development of the statistical system in the country. The National Sample
Survey Organization (NSSO) is responsible for large scale statistical surveys covering the entire country.
The CSO & NSSO are two eyes of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation,
Government of India.

 1.2      State Statistical System (SSS) is an integral part of the Indian Official Statistical System and there
exists two-way dependence between the two systems so that improvements in State Statistical Systems
are critical to the improvements in National Statistical System and vice-versa. The Statistical System in
the States is almost similar to that at the Center. It is generally decentralized over the departments of the
State/UT Governments. At the apex level, there usually exists a Directorate (or a Bureau) of Economics
and Statistics, which is responsible for the coordination of the statistical activities in the State. The DESs
have, besides their Head Quarter Office at the State Capital, statistical offices in the districts. In general,
the statistical activities of the State DESs are more or less similar, although sectoral domain may vary.
However, there are significant differences in the technical and institutional capacities of the State
statistical systems and also in the degree of importance and priority accorded to them by the State
Governments. Consequently, the level and quality of functioning of the DESs vary widely among States.

1.3     Although the CSO at the Center and the DESs in the States are expected to perform the statistical
coordination functions, in reality there is a much closer organic relationship between the line Ministries at
the Center and their counterpart line Departments in the States especially in respect of Social Statistics &
Agriculture Statistics. Since the line departments in the States are responsible for implementing the
development programmes of the Central ministries, the design of the record-keeping system is usually
dictated by administrative requirements, with little consideration of the needs of the statistical agencies.

1.4      Given the infirmities of the administrative data systems in India, recourse has increasingly been
taken to generating necessary statistical information through censuses and surveys. These methods are
not only time and resource intensive; they have limitations in terms of the level of disaggregation that
they can reasonably address. While this may not be much of an issue at the Central level, which is
concerned primarily with estimates at the national level or, at the most, at the State level, the ability of
States to address sub-state issues is severely circumscribed. In order to address this problem, States have
been encouraged to actively participate in the national sample surveys and annual survey of industries so


49 Excerpts from published NSSP launched by the Prime Minister on Sept. 9,2008 during the Conference of Minis-
ters in-charge of Statistics.
Full document available on MOSPI web-site: http://mospi.nic.in/nssp-material-2julyO8.htm

                                                    84
that the combined sample size is large enough for sub-state estimates. The experience so far has been
that only a few States have the capacity to meaningfully participate in and take full advantage of the
nationwide surveys that are presently being carried out.

1.5     The main features of the Indian Statistical System can be broadly summarized as follows:
a)      The Administrative Statistics System is its major component;
b)      It is laterally and vertically decentralized;
c)      Data collection and other allied aspects such as compilation, processing and preparation of results
        are carried out for some of the sectors although there is divergence across the States;
d)      State-wise data for certain sectors/ parameters flow to the Center, and the Statistics thereof at the
        All India level are usually obtained through aggregation.
e)      Sample surveys are generally used to meet the data gaps, but these are often not available at the
        sub-state level for planning purposes at lower administrative levels.

Review by Rangarajan Commission
1.6       The economic liberalization process and opening up of the Indian economy along with other
allied factors since the last decade of the twentieth century have brought the statistical system of the
county under great pressure. The transition from a closed economy dominated by the public sector to a
market oriented economy and relaxation of the licensing and control regimes led to the weakening of
various statistical reporting systems. On the other hand, it became necessary for the statistical system to
facilitate participation of private sector in the decision - making process by providing reliable and high
quality data in the context of increased private sector involvement in the economic and social sectors.
The process of decentralization of powers of governance initiated through the 73rd and 74th amendments
of the Constitution of India brought increasing demand on the statistical system to meet the data needs of
local bodies. The expansion of economic activities in the services sector in the country brought to fore
the data gaps in these areas. It, thus, became necessary to revamp the statistical system of the country to
make it more responsive to the current needs. A Commission under the Chairmanship of Dr. C.
Rangarajan was, therefore, appointed by the Government in January 2000 to examine critically the
deficiencies in the statistical system and to recommend measures for its systematic revamping. The
Commission in its report submitted to the Government in September 2001 listed several data gaps and
deficiencies in the statistical system.

11. Current Scenario: Systemic Deficiencies and Reforms in the Official Statistical System

2.1     The National Statistical Commission (NSC) chaired by Dr. C. Rangarajan had noted the
following crucial deficiencies in the Statistical System of India:

a)      Existence of gaps in the availability of needed information;
b)      Delays in publication of results;
c)      Large and frequent revisions of published results;
d)      Gross discrepancies in official statistics from different sources; and
e)      Lack of transparency in statistical operations.

2.2       These deficiencies, as noted by the said NSC, have led to a serious loss of credibility of official
statistics, arising inter-alia on account of following reasons:

a)      There is lack of a system of assurance of quality of the statistics that are disseminated by the
        official statistical system;
b)      Over the years, the system of statutory administrative returns, which form the major sources of
        official statistics, has seriously weakened;




                                                   85
c)      Time tested methods of coordination with various agencies of the decentralized statistical system
        such as Technical Working Groups, Advisory Committees, COCSSO etc. have not been
        functioning satisfactorily;
d)      Absence of a Human Resource Development Policy has been responsible for a marked lack of
        motivation of official statisticians in India and
e)      Absence of an explicit Citizen's Charter or Mission Statement without which the rising
        expectations of the citizens from the statistical system cannot be fulfilled.

Reforms in the Statistical system
2.3.      Official statistics are required by Government for informed debate, decision making and research
both within Government and by the wider community. Objective, reliable, timely and accessible official
statistics with complete coverage are critical in democratic societies to ensure public confidence in the
integrity of the governance and public decision making. Hence integrity of official statistics becomes
important in shaping the. perceptions regarding the quality of governance. For this purpose, the adoption
of the Fundamental Principles of Official Statistics as endorsed in 1994 by the United Nations Statistical
Commission is now a widely agreed framework for the mission of National Statistical Offices (NSOs)
and thus also for official statistics. These Principles are as follows:

        Official statistics provide an indispensable element in the information system of a democratic
        society, serving the Government, the economy and the public with data about the economic,
        demographic, social and environmental situation. To this end, official statistics that meet the test
        of practical utility are to be compiled and made available on an impartial basis by official
        statistical agencies to honour citizens' entitlement to public information.
        To retain trust in `official statistics, the statistical agencies need to decide according to strictly
        professional considerations including scientific principles and professional ethics on the methods
        and procedures for the collection, processing, storage and presentation of statistical data.
        To facilitate a correct interpretation of the data, the statistical agencies are to present information
        according to scientific standards on the sources, methods and procedures of the statistics.
        The statistical agencies are entitled to comment on erroneous interpretation and misuse of
        statistics.
        Data for statistical purposes may be drawn from all types of sources, be they statistical surveys or
        administrative records. Statistical agencies are to choose the source with regard to quality,
        timeliness, costs and the burden on respondents.
        Individual data collected by statistical agencies for statistical compilation, whether they refer to
        natural or legal persons, are to be strictly confidential and used exclusively for statistical
        purposes.
        The laws, regulations and measures under which the statistical systems operate are to be made
        public.
        Coordination among statistical agencies within countries is essential to achieve consistency and
        efficiency in the statistical system.
        The use by statistical agencies in each country of international concepts, classifications and
        methods promotes the consistency and efficiency of statistical systems at all levels.
        Bilateral and multilateral cooperation in statistics contributes to the improvement of system of
        official statistics in all countries.

Remedial Measures proposed by the NSC (2001)
2.4      The NSC headed by Dr. C. Rangarajan had underlined the need to improve the credibility,
timeliness and adequacy aspects of the Indian Statistical System and recommended a wide ranging set of
remedial measures using a five-fold approach viz. a) reform in the administrative structure of the Indian
Statistical System and upgrading its infrastructure to ensure autonomy, b) improvement of the present
system of data collection, c) explore alternative techniques in relation to existing statistics, d)
identification of new data series that may be necessary to keep pace with the changes occurring in the


                                                   86
socio-economic sectors and e) evolution of appropriate methodologies for collection of data, in relation to
new data requirements.

 Reform initiatives of the Ministry of Statistics & Programme Implementation
2.5     In order to address the deficiencies in the system and bring about appropriate reform, it is
absolutely necessary to set a long term vision and a set of goals which will enable the Statistical System
to be recognized as an efficient one for timely dissemination of reliable and credible statistics, consistent
with international standards to all users. Accordingly, following the suggestion of the Rangarajan
Commission (NSC), the Ministry has adopted a Mission Statement with a set of Goals for itself.

Mission Statement
 i.    To maintain statistical standards, and reorient the processes and priorities in realm of official
       statistics, in tune with the changing technological and economic environment and needs;

 ii.     To collect, coordinate, collate and disseminate credible and timely statistics for informed decision
         making and debate within and outside the Government; and
 ...
 111.    To promote human resource development in the official statistics and encourage research and
         development in theoretical and applied statistics.

 Goals
  i.   To capture adequately the growth and contribution of newly emerging sectors of national
       economy.
 ii.   To achieve and maintain international standards in official statistics.
...
111.   To establish an integrated data storage and dissemination facility on official statistics covering all
       economic and social sectors.
iv.    To induct State -of -the - art information technology.
 v.    To develop capacity to deliver user-friendly services.

National Statistical Commission
2.6      The two basic reasons identified by the Rangarajan Commission for the existence of some of the
major deficiencies were (i) absence of an effective co-ordination mechanism for determining statistical
priorities, standardization of concepts and definitions, and (ii) absence of a mechanism to ensure
credibility of statistics in the existing decentralized statistical system.

2.7      Due to the decentralized nature of the statistical system with a plethora of statistical organizations
for collecting and processing of data, the co-ordination of statistical system became a difficult task.
Despite the existence of Central Statistical Organization (CSO) at the center and Directorates of
Economics and Statistics (DES) at the State level, the statistical system functioned almost in a disjointed
manner, with not much control over the way the data were collected, tabulated and analyzed. There were
also lack of uniformity in standards, concepts, definitions and classification systems making it difficult to
integrate various databases. There were also several instances of duplication of efforts as well as
incomplete coverage.

2.8      The Rangarajan Commission recommended the establishment of a permanent and statutory apex
body, called the National Commission on Statistics (NCS) for policy making, co-ordination and ensuring
quality of core statistics. In pursuance of this recommendation, the Government notified the setting-up of
a National Statistical Commission through a Government resolution dated 1st June 2005. The National
Statistical Commission consists of an eminent social scientist as its Chairman and four Members, one
expert each from the fields of (i) economic statistics (ii) social and environment statistics (iii) statistical
operations and (iv) national accounts and State statistical system. The Secretary, Planning Commission is



                                                   87
an ex-officio member and the Chief Statistician of India, the head of the National Statistical Organization,
is the Secretary of the Statutory Commission.

The specific functions of the Commission include the following:

        identify the core statistics, which are of national importance and are critical to the development of
        the economy
        evolve national policies and priorities relating to the statistical system
        evolve standard statistical concepts, definitions, classifications and methodologies in different
        areas of statistics and lay down national quality standards on core statistics
        evolve national strategies for the collection, tabulation and dissemination of core statistics,
        including the release calendar for various data sets
        evolve national strategies for human resource development on official statistics including
        information technology and communication needs of the statistical system
        evolve measures for improving public trust in official statistics
        evolve measures for effective co-ordination with State Governments and Union Territory
        Administrations on statistical activities including strengthening of existing institutional
        mechanisms
        exercise statistical co-ordination between Ministries, Departments and other agencies of the
        Central Government
        exercise statistical audit over the statistical activities to ensure quality and integrity of statistical
        products
        recommend to the Central Government, or any State Government, as the case may be, measures
        to effectively implement the standards, strategies and other measures evolved
        advise the Government on the requirement of legislative measures on statistical matters including
        the statute for the National Statistical Commission; and
        monitor and review the functioning of the statistical system in the light of the laid down policies,
        standards and methodologies and recommend measures for enhanced performance.

In order to enable the Commission to discharge the above functions, it has been given powers to:
        require production of any document which in the opinion of the Commission will serve or may
        serve statistical purposes
        require statistical agencies and institutions to provide details of statistical activities including
        concepts and definitions used, methodologies followed, quality standards adopted, sampling and
        non-sampling errors etc. in respect of core statistics.
        require the attendance of any person including any public servant on matters connected with core
        statistics, and
        issuing notices for the examination of witnesses and documents or any other matter connected
        with core statistics.

Restructuring of the Statistical Organization
2.9     The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation presently consists of a Statistics Wing
and a Programme Implementation Wing. The two wings have distinctly different functions and separate
functionaries, though the administrative and management functions are combined. It has been therefore
decided to form an independent National Statistical Organization (NSO) with the Chief Statistician of
India as its head and the existing Central Statistical Organization and National Sample Survey
Organization as its two wings to ensure its functional autonomy and integrity. The post of Director
General of CSO, which had been lying vacant for long, has been filled up.




                                                    88
Improvement of Lateral Coordination at the Center through Statistical Advisors
2.10 In the process of implementation of the recommendations of the NSC (200 l), Statistical Advisors
have been posted at various line Ministries in order to improve the mechanism and efficacy of lateral
coordination at the center on statistical matters. These statistical advisors in the line
ministrieddepartments are responsible for the professional integrity of the statistical activities carried out
by the concerned ministrieddepartments and while doing so, they are expected to also work closely with
the apex national statistical agency.

Human Resource Development
2.1 1 Human resource development is another major area of concern in improving the statistical system
of the country. The present educational curricula of universities in India are not oriented towards official
statistical system and the emphasis is primarily on theoretical statistics. It has, therefore, become
necessary to create necessary infrastructural facilities and course material for imparting training in official
statistics systematically and adequately. A full fledged national institute for training in official statistics
known as National Academy of Statistical Administration (NASA) has, therefore, been planned and will
be operational shortly.

National Policy on Dissemination of Statistical Data
2.12 There has been a periodical review and restructuring of statistical system of the country in the
past in line with emerging data needs, advances in statistical and computing methodologies and priorities
of the Government. One of the most revolutionary steps taken earlier has been the notification of the
"National Policy on Dissemination of Statistical Data" on 6th January 1999. The policy made it
mandatory for all data source agencies to release unit level data sets without identification particulars of
units supplying data to all data users as long as the data are not sensitive in nature and the supply of it is
not prejudicial to the interest, integrity and security of the nation. The announcement of this policy was
based on the realization that statistical databases need to be regarded as "public goods" and all interested
agencies including individual researchers should be able to use them for research and analysis. A data
warehouse is presently being established to provide value added services in statistical data dissemination.

Legal Framework
2.13     It is necessary that the statistical system of the country is supported and regulated by appropriate
legislative framework. The existing Collection of Statistics Act is found to be inadequate in several
counts including coverage, procedural aspects and powers. Steps have been therefore initiated by the
Government to amend the Act suitably in consultation with various Ministries and State Governments.

India Statistical Strengthening Project
2.14 A major initiative taken up by the Government to reform the statistical system of the country is
"India Statistical Strengthening Project". It is aimed at strengthening the information base for policy
formulation and planning by improving the reliability, credibility, timeliness and coverage of the
statistical system. The project is being implemented in two Tiers with the assistance of the World Bank.
In Tier I, certain exploratory studies were taken up which would provide inputs for further action for
creation and maintenance of a business register, for the improvement of service sector statistics, for
assessing the survey capabilities in the private sector and for identifying the specific requirements of
strengthening the Directorates of Economics and Statistics of State Governments. Tier-I1 of the project is
proposed to be taken up during the 1 lth Five Year Plan, with focus on strengthening of State Statistical
System.

2.15    India is presently not having a business register. As a result, it has not been possible to conduct
periodical business surveys, particularly in the services sector, by using list frames. Enterprise surveys
except in the organized manufacturing sector are being conducted by adopting a two stage design with
areal units at the first stage and establishments at the second stage. The approach is beset with several
inherent problems. The situation is proposed to be remedied by creating and maintaining a business


                                                   89
    register. The study on the subject has provided the necessary blue print and a proto-type business
I

    register. The availability of a business register and conduct of periodic business surveys based on the
    register would greatly improve services sector statistics and national income estimates.

    2.16     The statistical activities in the country are mostly carried out by the Government agencies.
    However, the manpower resources available with the Government are limited and cannot meet the
    increasing demand for reliable data on various sectors. It has, therefore, become necessary to tap the
    potential available in the private sector for undertaking large scale statistical surveys. The study has
    assessed the existing capacity in the private sector and provided a framework for enabling the use of
    private sector in statistical activities.

    Capacity Development
    2.17     Currently, Plan schemes in operation have been formulated with the objectives for improvement
    in quality, coverage and timeliness of National and State Accounts Statistics, Social, Environment and
    Allied statistics, Consumer Price Index Series, Index of Industrial Production series and Data generated
    through Annual Survey of Industries, strengthening and enhancing capabilities of National Sample
    Survey Organization in the          matter of Field Survey, Data processing and Survey Design,
    Operationalization of NASA for capacity development in production, organization and management of
    official statistics and training. Promotion of research and analytical studies, statistical auditing and
    monitoring of State statistical projects, enhancement of National coordination and International
    cooperation in Statistics with United Nations and organizations of the UN Statistical system are other
    important objectives of the current plan Schemes.

    Development of Local Level Data Base
    2.18     The decentralization process initiated by the 73rd and 74th amendments of the Indian
    Constitution which gives greater responsibilities and powers to the Panchayats and Palikas as the third
    Tier of governance offers a new era of opportunity for local planning, effective implementation and
    monitoring of various social and economic development programmes in the country. The National
    Statistical System is required to assist the various developmental agencies in this challenging endeavor.
    The recent advances in Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in terms of compilation,
    storage, transmission and analysis of statistical data ought to be fully exploited in the proper
    understanding of the conditions at local level. This apart, dovetailing of the programmes for social
    upliftment, health care facilities, educational opportunities and general development needs to be
    appropriately designed, implemented and monitored. In this direction, a statistical framework has already
    been formulated by a High-level Committee under the Chairmanship of a Member, Planning
    Commission. This is proposed to be operationalised through a plan scheme during the coming years.

    National Data Warehouse of Official statistics
    2.19    As per the National Policy on Dissemination of Data, the Computer Center which is a part of the
    CSO will preserve data generated by various Central Ministries, State Governments and Public Sector
    Undertakings in a Data Warehouse and provide information to the users, meeting the specific needs for
    micro data and tabulated results from a single window through Data Warehouse Technology. This will
    enable extensive integrated meta data support across all layers of data warehouse solution. Web-based
    access to the Warehouse and Remote Access Facilities (RAF) to the end users through a network will be
    extremely useful in the ICT application in the statistical system

    Coordination Role of the CSO
    2.20 One of the major designated responsibilities of the CSO is that of acting as the Nodal Agency for
    the planned development of the statistical system in the country within the framework of Indian
    Constitution where statistics comes under concurrent list. The CSO is entrusted with the responsibility
    not only to coordinate horizontally and vertically the statistical activities of the Government of India and
    the State DESs but also to lay down and maintain norms and standards in the field of statistics, an activity


                                                      90
which is usually done through Institutional arrangements such as Inter-Departmental Meetings of
Working Groups, Technical Advisory Committees on various subjects, Standing Committees etc. in the
case of Central Ministries. The coordination activity with the State Governments is also executed through
several Institutional mechanisms, including that of the annual meetings of the Conference of Central and
State Statistical Organizations (COCSSO). Besides that, at the State level, for purposes of coordination,
certain other Committees such as the High-level Coordination Committees (HLCCs) and State Level
Coordination Committees (SLCCs) also exist and operate.

111. Developmental Perspective

Improvement of Coordination within States by Empowering State DESs
3.1      In the scheme of federal political structure and decentralized statistical system, State Directorates
of Economics and Statistics (DES) have a very important role to play because national statistics are no
more than aggregation of State level data with responsibilities of collection administratively divided
between the Center and the States. Given the large regional diversities that characterize the continental
country like India, the State statistical bureaus also differ in terms of their role, their functions and their
powers in the State statistical systems as also their organizational structure, physical infrastructure, human
resources and information technology. This leads to diversity in the statistical products that they generate
as also in their quality.

3.2      The weaknesses that have crept in and developed over the years in the State Statistical
System(SSS) in terms of the crucial function of lateral coordination has become another area of major and
serious concern, demanding urgent appropriate remedial measures being taken on a systematic and
systemic basis to effectively address this issue. In many States, the DESs have not been granted the
requisite authority to effectively perform the coordination function. To make matters worse, Statistical
Officers posted at the sub-state level to coordinate, collate and supervise primary data originating from
the field functionaries of the line departments are saddled with other responsibilities and their statistical
functions receive very low priority.

3.3     The consequences of such weak lateral coordination are often significant duplication of efforts
and lack of integration between different data sources. There is also no mechanism to ensure that the
primary data ,collectors adhere to the norms and standards laid down by their controlling departments,
which adversely affects data quality.

3.4      The steps taken in terms of improvement of lateral coordination in statistical matters at the center
between the CSO and the other Government of India Ministried Departments in accordance with
"Allocation of Business Rules" may be adapted as a model for improvement of lateral co-ordination at the
StateLJT level between the State DESs and the other line ministrieddepartments of the StatesLJTs. For
this purpose, the rank of the Heads of DES needs to be elevated within the administrative structure of the
States and preferably be equivalent to the rank of Statistical Advisors of the Central Government.
Moreover, the DES needs to be declared as nodal statistical agency, if not already done, within the State
as recommended by NSC (2001). This will empower the DES in all Statistical matters in the StatesAJTs
and the coordination functions get widened to cover entire State Statistical system. There is an imperative
and urgent need for enhancing the usefulness of the SSS to the State Government. The SSS will have to
change the way in which the production of statistics is done using the `current fixed-product' approach.
This in-turn requires sharing of data maintained by one department with other departments through agreed
upon protocols, central storehouse of unit level data of all departments and identification of essential
common data elements in all data collection forms used by various administrative agencies.




                                                   91
Statistics for decision making
3.5      Broadly, there are two kinds of statistics usually needed by the Government. One, at the macro
level in terms of national aggregates and the other being Statistics at the Micro Level needed for
operational planning, where disaggregated statistics are more relevant and therefore more important. In
most cases, the State statistical system, even where it may possess the required or requested data, often
finds itself unable, in terms of required skills, to process the available data on demand and synthesize the
data on given variabledparameters obtainable from various alternate official sources. This will require
the State Statistical Systems to endow themselves with the required data processing and analytical skills.
This issue acquires added significance and sense of urgency at the present juncture ( and more so, in the
times to come) given the ever changing and ever growing nature and dimensions of the data/ information
demands being placed and can be expected to be placed on the official statistical system in India.

Strengthening of Sample Survey Capabilities in State DESs
3.6      The ability of the State DESs to participate well and effectively in terms of the matching samples
in National Sample Surveys in course of time would greatly enhance their reputation and, in turn, lead to
significant improvement of the national statistical system at large. This can only be achieved by having
their own sample survey outfits, with the required core competencies. Since the NSSO cannot, for
obvious practical reasons, be expected to meet all the survey data processing needs of the State
Governments, the so far observed practice of over-reliance on the NSSO on this account has to make way,
as early as possible, for the State/UT level statistical organizations gradually taking over this critical
activity as an in-house exercise. The COCSSO has also taken cognizance of this issue at its meetings. In
the context of the strengthening of Survey Capability in DES, issues that require adequate, careful and
urgent attention include those of enhancing the capacity of DESs to organize large-scale surveys, use of
advanced software for its processing and report generation. Many of the States are yet to develop
advanced capabilities for survey data processing. This capability can be built through training and
induction of computer hardware and software.

Development of Analytical Capabilities
3.7      To enable the DES to produce the required statistics, analytical capability of the staff has to be
upgraded. Optimal use of modern Statistical Methods as also of.Operationa1 Research Techniques would
have to be attempted increasingly in the time to come to convert, wherever possible and in a cost effective
manner, the available data into the most needed analyzed and processed information, with a view to
catering effectively to both the existing un-met demands for datahnformation from various clients as also
the emerging demands for information from a diversity of sourceduser segments.

Demand for Official Statistics
3.8          It is said that anything that cannot be measured cannot be controlled. Relevant, timely, easily
comprehensible and accessible good quality official statistics are of paramount importance, if national
development efforts are to be designed and targeted well and implemented effectively. In the absence of
such good statistics, objective and realistic public policy goals and targets cannot be set and more so, the
progress accruing there from cannot be measured/ monitored, when one wishes to assess the extent of
success or otherwise of various Governmental initiatives in terms of developmental programmes. Again,
in a scenario characterized by either non-availability or else inadequate availability of relevant official
statistics, 'it would not be feasible to determine the effects and impacts of such Government programmes
v i s - h i s the envisaged objectives/goals and targets under such programmes. The demand for official
statistics data stems from a variety of requirements for formulation, implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of economic and social development policies and programmes. After all, who does not
require good quality and timely official statistics? Policy makers need such statistical data to formulate
and /or review and revise their policies. The implementing agencies and service providers require
statistical data to be able to deliver their services efficiently and effectively, besides assessing optimality
of resource allocations and utilization. The researchers and academicians, for their part, need coherent and



                                                   92
well presented statistical data for undertaking analytical pursuits, while the prospective investors also
require data in appropriate sectors to make prudent investment decisions.

3.9      Although Governments are usually the major users of official statistics, the public themselves are
also potential consumers of such statistics, provided of course that these are made available to them in a
timely, easily accessible and relatively inexpensive (if not altogether free) manner. Also, for individual
citizens as well, such official statistics can provide them with the required informatiodbasis needed for
them to be able to assess their own levels of wellbeing and welfare and enable them to make rational
choices and decisions about various facets of their own lives, besides providing them with an objective
method to assess the performance of the Government or for that matter, of other service providers
working on public services and serving public good.

3.10 In India, in the backdrop of the trends which have been in evidence for some years now of a
rapidly expanding economy and a vibrandgrowing social sector, if anything, it is to be only expected that,
in the times to come, the demands that would be placed on the official statistical system would be
significantly on the rise and therefore, it is imperative and urgent as well that the national statistical
system, in general and the StateLJT statistical systems in particular adjust themselves appropriately and
adequately to be able to respond effectively and quickly to any such datdinformation demands. Many
new demands often call for increased sensitivity and enhanced levels of flexibility on the part of the State
statistical Systems to produce specific statistics on new topics of interest.

Administrative Statistical System
3.1 1 One of the oft repeated weaknesses of the Indian Statistical System has been the weakness of the
administrative statistics, which forms its core. Weakness of the administrative statistics is in itself not an
isolated issue, as this is the result of a host of other interconnected issues. However as documented by the
Rangarajan Commission, the key reason for the deterioration of the administrative statistics has been the
very low priority given to the primary statistical activities in public administration and in the scheme of
governance at the Center and the States and the apathetic attitude to administrative statistics on the part of
main users, both in and outside the Government. While this deterioration has been taking place for some
time, there has been a significant jump in the demand for credible, complete and timely data most of
which has necessarily to emanate from the official sources. With significant domestic liberalization and
progressive integration of the Indian economy with the global economy, this need is now also being felt
at sub-national levels, as the States are competing to attract private domestic and foreign investment.
Therefore the time is most appropriate not just to take a hard look at the official statistics to correct the
priorities but also to make the necessary investment to make the official statistics meet the demands of the
present and future. The decentralized system in the country makes it imperative that improvements of the
State Statistical System should be of paramount importance in any scheme of improving the Indian
Statistical System.

3.12 Administrative Statistics are generally collected by the State Governments, and comprise
statutory administrative returns and data derived as a by-product of general public administration.
Administrative Statistics are often critically needed and utilized for the effective planning of Censuses
and Surveys. The health of the Indian Statistical System depends, to a large extent, upon the State of
functioning of the administrative statistical system. It is necessary to put in place appropriate internal
procedures and communication channels in regard to administrative records so as to enable their
transformation into administrative statistics beginning with primary recording of data that is computer
compatible, mechanisms of sample validation of administrative statistics, their efficient storage at various
geographical levels and setting up retrieval procedures for their aggregation,.tabulation and dissemination,
while meeting the criteria of timeliness, reliability, quality and completeness. In this context, the tasks of
computerization of administrative statistics and development of appropriate mechanisms within these
computerized systems to feed the DES with the necessary data assume a special significance and sense of
urgency. However, in the case of system of direct data collection through Sample Surveys, a major


                                                   93
source of dissatisfaction has been with respect to the timely processing of the data collected and the
subsequent release of results accruing there from. Effective computerization can certainly go a long way
in dealing with the problem of inordinate delays in the publication of the results flowing from Sample
Surveys.

3.13 The major weakness in timely availability and release of quality data witnessed over the years has
been on account of the shortcomings of the administrative recording system for which Statisticians do not
have any role in most of the cases thereby leading to weakening record based official statistics. It is
commonly reckoned that the improvement of quality and timeliness of the administrative statistical
system lies in the quality improvement of the administrative machinery of the Government and to
appreciate the need for statistics and to overcome a) incomplete coverage; b) delays in the availability of
information; and c) unsatisfactory quality. There are significant advantages of statistics collected through
the administrative set-up, especially in view of the fact that the collection of data is much less costly
compared to that collected through specially designed sample surveys or censuses. Over the years,
unfortunately, for a variety of reasons, the administrative recording system in India has been getting
weakened for Statistical purposes.

IV. Vision for the Statistical System of India

4.1      The immediate objective of strengthening the Statistical System is to develop a coherent and
consistent system of data collection, analysis and dissemination within the present structure of a
decentralized set of responsibilities under the constitutional framework. The system must ensure that
official statistics meet the needs of data at all levels of aggregation from the national down to the sub-
State level. It would also need to ensure that the data generated at different levels are comparable both
across time and space. Achieving such an integrated system will require action at various levels of the
official statistical system in India.

4.2      At the heart of such a coherent system is the articulation of a common set of standards which
would ensure both inter-regional comparability and consistent aggregation. However, standards by
themselves are not enough. In view of the various degrees of infirmity at different levels in the statistical
system, in terms not only of technical and institutional capacities but also of the priority perceptions and
levels of importance attached to statistical functions, it will also be necessary to clearly articulate data
collection methodologies which can reasonably be followed by the agencies concerned. This function is
best performed at the central level since it is unlikely that individual States operating on a stand-alone
basis would be able to arrive at methodologies which are within the capacity of all of the others.
However, it will clearly be necessary for the Center to engage with the State and perhaps even the sub-
State systems to be able to develop the appropriate standards and/or methodologies.

4.3     Since in the Indian system the responsibility for collection, compilation and dissemination of a
wide range of statistics rests with line Ministries at the center which operate closely with their counter-
part departments in the States, the development of standards and methodologies may need to be a
collaborative exercise involving the Central Statistical Organization (CSO), which is the nodal central
agency for standard setting, the line Ministries and the concerned State Departments. This process will be
under the overall supervision and guidance of the National Statistical Commission, which is the apex
body for such activities in the country.

4.4     It should be specifically mentioned that the development of standards and data collection
methodologies by the Central system cannot be restricted to only such statistics which are relevant at the
national level. The need for comparable data across States and even at the sub-state level demands that
consistency and comparability has to be ensured for all such statistics. Therefore, it becomes incumbent
on the central system to also evolve suitable standards and methodologies which are relevant only on the



                                                  94
State and sub-state level, even though there may not be an obvious locus standi of the Central system for
doing so.

4.5       In addition to those statistics which are needed at the national level or on a comparable basis
across States, there would certainly be a range of other statistics which could be of specific interest to a
particular State or a group of States for their own policy making purposes. At the initial stages it may not
be necessary to bring such data on a common format and, therefore, could be left to the State statistical
system to develop on their own. However, since it is a universal experience that the existence of
particular types of data tend to generate their own demand, there needs to be a constant awareness of the
fact that State specific data needs can very rapidly escalate to the inter-State or even to the national level.
It is, therefore, important that the Central statistical system keeps itself continuously alert and apprised of
the statistical initiatives being taken by various State Governments, and if necessary, to assist them in
developing standards and methodologies. Such a knowledge base at the Center will allow a relatively
smooth escalation of State specific statistics to national standards whenever such a need arises. Although,
this is in itself not strictly a coordination function, the coordination mechanism that exists at present
between the Center and the States will need to widen its ambit of engagement with the State statistical
agencies.

4.6     In view of the widely differing technical and institutional capacities in the various States of the
country, it is quite likely that the standards and methodologies that are initially specified may not suffice
to meet the desirable levels of quality that should be aimed at. The transition between the achievable and
the desirable will need to be carried out in a stepwise manner taking into account the progressive
improvements that take place in the State statistical systems. Thus, the establishment of standards and
methodologies in the Indian context cannot be a onetime exercise, but will have to evolve in a dynamic
manner as the process of strengthening of State capacities progresses.

4.7     Common standards and methodologies of data collection are only the first step towards a
consistent and coherent national statistical system. It is also necessary to establish common systems of
data maintenance recording storage and retrieval procedures and analysis, and to specify common
standards for data exchange and dissemination. Since a number of States do not at present have the
technical capacity to develop such systems which are consistent with the national statistical standards, it
will be necessary for the Center to design, develop and transfer such expertise to the State systems.
Fortunately, there are States which have been doing extremely innovative work in these areas, and it
should be possible for the Central system to identify best practices and to develop these into a set of
recommended practices which can be followed by other States as well.

4.8      India subscribes to the IMF's Special Data Dissemination Standard (SDDS) at the national level
and is in compliance with the requirements of the SDDS in respect of certain categories in real, fiscal,
financial and external sectors, with population as an added category which may be used as a national
benchmark for norms and performance standards at the State/UT level, with some modifications allowed
for States/UTs wherever found necessary and justified. Such an approach would help make the statistical
efforts of the States/UTs to become supportive of the national compliance with the SDDS. The SDDS
makes recommendations concerning dissemination of 18 data categories and prescribes periodicity and
timelines of publication of the data. The coverage, periodicity and timelines specified at the national level
would be appropriate and achievable at the StateAJT level as well. At the National level, the Central
Statistical Organization has also been following the practice of issuing an Advance Release Calendar (a
specimen available at Table-A). The State/ UT Governments can adopt such a system/practice of
"Advance Release Calendar" in regard to the various kinds of statistical series and data thereon produced
and disseminated by them.

4.9     Nevertheless, any acceptable set of standards and methodologies at every level of the statistical
function will require significant up-gradation of the capacities and skills of State statistical functionaries.


                                                   95
This activity is carried out to some extent by the central agencies even at present. However, it will be
necessary to step up the capacity development activities in the country substantially in order to meet the
ambitions that have been articulated in terms of the national and inter-State data requirements. The
training capacities available at the central level are grossly inadequate for this purpose, and it seems most
unlikely these can be ramped up sufficiently, given the constraints on financial and, more particularly,
human resources. Alternative institutional arrangements will need to be developed in collaboration with
the education and training establishments that exist in the country to address this issue over the medium
run.

4.10 If the DESs in the States are to play a more proactive role as lead players in the State statistical
system, it is equally important that they are appropriately trained to do so. Such training should not
necessarily be in the field of statistical methodologies alone, it should cover areas of socio-economic
indicators which will enable them to transform the data collected by various agencies into meaningful
statistics meeting specified definitions and concepts, especially in areas like education, health, labour
where most of the basic data are in the spheres of responsibility of the States. In conceptualizing the
training infrastructure, it is necessary to clearly acknowledge the limitations of the potentially partnering
institutions, particularly the universities and colleges. While such institutions certainly have the capacity
to provide exposure to the conceptual and theoretical basis of statistics, most of them have limitations
while dealing with issues relating to the methods and practices of data collection. It .is, therefore,
necessary to establish training systems which draw upon the strengths of both the educational system as
well as the experience of the field functionaries of the official statistical system. Such a process is easier
said than done since there has been little cross communication between these two sets of fields.
Development of integrated curriculum will need to be preceded by intense interaction so that common
grounds can be established. It is, therefore, necessary to identify educational and training institutions
which are both interested and inclined towards performing such a function, and to strengthen and expand
their capacities to meet the requirements of training of State statistical functionaries.

4.1 1 The problems of capacity development are particularly acute in the line departments of the States
which have a predominant responsibility for designing and implementing the administrative record
keeping system. At present, by and large, administrative records are not in themselves perceived to be
statistical in nature and, as a result, there is little statistical input in the design of such data collection and
maintenance systems. Although this is ameliorated to some extent by the fact that the concerned central
Ministries do have high quality statistical personnel who are involved in the design of such systems, there
is little possibility of active learning and feedback from the operations at the ground level. If such
systems are to be expected to generate not only the data required for administrative control but also for
statistical purposes, there will need to be significant statistical expertise at least at the intermediate levels.

4.12     One of the principal reasons why there is a significant difference between the central statistical
structure and that prevailing at the level of the States is that in most States there is a lack of a strong
coordination mechanism between the various data generating institutions. This is a problem which must
be tackled in each State, but how it is done is best left to the State Governments themselves. However, if
it is done, it will nevertheless be necessary to inculcate a minimum degree of statistical capability at these
levels.

4.13 An area of particular weakness in the State statistical system is in the area of sample surveys
especially data processing and analysis At present most States rely on the Central survey system to
generate State level statistics. This, however, precludes sub State estimates from being made which are
critically important for rational decision making at the State level. Perhaps even more important, sample
surveys offer a valuable device for cross-validation of the statistics emerging from the administrative
records. This requires that the survey system of States must be capable of generating reliable estimates at
different levels of aggregation which will be relevant for their purposes.



                                                     96
4.14     A related dimension arises from the increase and need for evaluation of Central and State
Government development programmes and schemes which are operative at the State level. Although the
statistical system is not directly concerned with the evaluation process, nevertheless it is usually the
responsibility of the statistical system to generate at least the base line data and often to provide the
subsequent data set as well for carrying out meaningful evaluation. Such an activity requires strong
sample survey system which can operate at a granularity which is relevant for the particular
programme/scheme.

4.15 In a purely objective sense, the survey needs of States appear to be much more demanding than
those of the Center. Moreover, the complexity of survey design and data analysis is also of a possibly
higher level. There are few States which have the requisite expertise in being able to design and carry out
such surveys. Excessive reliance is placed on the central survey system, which acts to the detriment of
both the State data users as well as the capacities of the Central system. It is imperative, therefore, that
both the technical and physical capacity to carry out survey design, data collection and data processing
have to be enhanced significantly at the State level with appropriate support from the Central agencies.

4.16 Besides administrative records and surveys, the third major method for the collection of statistical
data is through returns submitted by specific entities. The experience with return based data, not only in
India but elsewhere as well, has been patchy at best. In the Indian experience there is usually need for
considerable follow up action on the part of the statistical agencies. Until now the authority to compel
submission of statistical returns vested only in the Central Government and its agencies. A new
Collection of Statistics Bill 2008 which is presently with the Parliament seeks to provide State and sub-
State levels of Government the ability to exercise authority for such matters. This opens up a new and
potentially high productive source of statistical information which can be strengthened with appropriate
cooperation between the Central and State agencies. It is expected that in the future much of the data
which is presently collected through surveys and personal visits may be shifted to a return based system
once the capacity of the State Governments to perform the monitoring and follow up action is sufficiently
strengthened. This has to be a priority area in the coming years.

V. Strategic Framework of NSSP

The process
5.1      The National Strategic Statistical Plan (NSSP) provides the base country situation and defines the
progress that can be made in a country, based on the evaluation of the country's national statistical
system, Identification of gaps and the assessment of absorption capacity and sets out a medium-term
strategy for creating the necessary capacity to produce comprehensive, good quality and relevant
economic and social data for policy and decision making. It sets out a work programme directed at
generating data inter-alia for macro-economic management; preparation, implementation and monitoring
of poverty alleviation programmes; monitoring the national progress towards the MDGs; promotion of
private sector development and international institutions. Such a plan viz. the NSSP also incorporates
proposals for institutional strengthening aimed at building sustainable national statistical capabilities
through the development of human and technological resources and the adoption of sound management
practices and the international statistical standards. The NSSP builds upon existing overall national
strategies and capabilities and involves the evaluation of data users' needs as well as the data providers'
means to produce data, through a consultative and participative process, with national stake holders and
international donors. The NSSP begins with a full evaluation of the existing State of the statistical
system, taking into account the strengths and weaknesses as also the extent to which the statistical system
conforms to domestic data needs and international best practices in terms of standards and methodologies
concerning data production and dissemination. The NSSP proceeds to set out a viable, technically sound
and user oriented medium-term work programme, with planned actions covering both data production and
dissemination and institutional reforms aimed at achieving cost effective and efficient approaches.



                                                  97
Sustainability
5.2      The sustainability of the outputs and outcomes which are expected to accrue to the implementing
agencies viz. the State/UT level statistical systems and organizations becomes a very crucial issue since
one would like to see and ensure the sustainability of the project benefits beyond its tenure. This would
inter-alia call for required types and levels of Governmental commitments from the concerned States/UT
Governments to provide required budgetary support to the implementing agencies for this project beyond
the implementation phase, particularly for those activities which are not directly connected with data
collection but still are considered important and indispensable for maintaining the improved statistical
processes, staff training, statistical research and the proper maintenance and up keep of the newly
installed statistical and physical infrastructure.

National Strategy for Development of Statistics (NSDS): Some key elements
5.3       As per recommended best principles and practices, in deciding to prepare a National Strategy for
Development of Statistics (NSDS), the Business- as-usual strategy is not a suggested option. A well
prepared NSDS has to be concerned with the whole of the national statistical system, including the
statistics produced by various line ministries. The NSDS, which deals with both technical issues and
institutional and human resource capacity related issues, is also required to be feasible and realistic,
identifying priorities based on the level of available resources. For this purpose, by national statistical
system, a reference is made to the entire process of collecting, recording, storing and retrieving,
compiling, disseminating and using the statistics produced by the Government agencies.

5.4      Ideally speaking, a NSDS ought to a) be nationally led and owned, with high-level of political
support; b) be demand focused and integrated into the national development policy processes; c) be
developed in an inclusive and consultative way; d) assess all statistical sectors and users' needs and
provide a vision and strategic plan for national statistics; e) set out a comprehensive statistical
development programme, which is prioritized and time-tabled, to build capacity to delver results,
incorporating plans for implementation, monitoring and evaluation but also flexible enough to cope with
change; f) address institutional and organizational constraints and processes, including resources, for the
sustainable development of statistical systems and output; g) build quality `fit for the purpose', drawing
on best international practices and standards; h) build on what exists and is being developed and continue
to satisfy immediate needs for statistics during the NSDS process; i) respond to user needs, while being
realistic about resources and j) serve as a coherent framework both for international support for statistical
development and statistical programmes across the national statistical system.

Putting the Strategic Plan into Effect: Principles and practices
5.5      With a view to deriving the best possible advantages from the comprehensive review undertaken
of the national statistical system by the Dr. C. Rangarajan chaired National Statistical Commission and in
the backdrop of a situation wherein besides impressive growth rates registered by the country over the
past few years in the socio-economic sectors, a good opportunity is now available to draw both high
quality professional technical support and funding assistance from the World Bank which would be
assisting the country in the formulation and effective implementation of the India Statistical
Strengthening Project(1SSP). Now the time is both opportune and appropriate for the national statistical
system to have a bold vision for critically important, path breaking and impact creating institutional and
policy reforms. Towards this end, it is proposed that the operationalization of the national vision for India
in terms of its statistical systems and organizations could essentially build around and build upon the
following principles and practice, keeping inter-alia in view the necessity for ensuring the neutrality,
objectivity, reliability and timeliness of Official Statistics:

a.      A significant shift in approach from `outlays-centered' to `outputs and outcome-oriented
        approach.




                                                  98
b.      Datdinformation to be no longer treated just as a raw material; instead, to be viewed as a precious
        resource and hence, calls for timely processing, value addition and user friendly dissemination
        without compromising neutrality and objectivity.
C.      Statistical Organizations would develop sustainable methods to exploit more of administrative
        statistics to reduce reliance on new sample surveys and also enhance the scope and coverage of
        existing surveys to meet demands.
d.      Critically review the statistical activities and statistical products to identify and eliminate
        avoidable redundancies and duplications and redirect the resources thus released towards new
        activities.
e.      Effectively address the problem of respondent burden and more user friendly data collection
        instruments in data collection processes.
f.      Statistics produced and Disseminated must be, as far as possible, policy relevant and
        administrator-friendly, in particular and user-friendly, in general while maintaining their
        professional integrity, reliability and timeliness.
g-      Statistical organizations are to improve their levels of visibility through effective interactions with
        stake holders.
h.      The statistical organizations would need to critically pay attention to the issues relating to
        inadequate IT hardware and software and IT skills, IT absorption, including Networking and
        Connectivity.
1.      Develop effective mechanisms for consultation with stake-holders in statistical organizations.

VI. India Statistical Strengthening Project (ISSP)

Essential features of the process of formulation and proposed implementation of the ISSP
6.1      The focus of the project is on strengthening of the statistical capacity of the 35 States and Union
Territories, especially with regard to the collection, compilation and dissemination of statistics, in line and
in accordance with the relevant recommendations contained in the NSC Report (August, 2001), which
inter-alia, has underlined the crucial role which all the StateskJTs have to play in generating the data for a
wide range of national level statistics and providing appropriate and adequate data, that too in a timely
manner for meeting the requirements of policy and planning at the State and sub-state levels.

6.2       The development objective of this proposed project is primarily directed at supporting the
implementation of the Mission for the Indian Statistical System as had been proposed earlier by the NSC
in 2001 Le., to provide, within the decentralized structure of the system, reliable, timely and credible
social and economic statistics, to assist decision making within and outside the Government, stimulate
research and promote informed debate relating to conditions affecting people's life. The NSC report had
also emphasized on the fact that, the proposals for modernization of the Indian statistical system ought to
focus on addressing systemic issues of the administrative statistical system by ensuring that the State
statistical systems become an integral part of the modernization process. The Commission had also
noticed inter-alia that the efficacy of the Indian Statistical System, to a large extent, depends upon the
operational efficiency of the State statistical systems, which are generally decentralized laterally over the
various line MinistriesAIepartments of the State/UT Governments. In this background, the ISSP Project
will aim to facilitate the process of enhancing the role of the State DESs to provide for more effective
coordination of statistical activities within the States as also to assist the line ministries and data agencies
of both the Government of India and the State level line MinistriesAIepartments to improve the quality
and coverage of the data that they collect and to promote their utilization at the State, District and Block
levels. The key performance yardstick for the project would be determined based on the extent to which
the State and UT Governments participating in the project viz. ISSP are able to meet effectively,
adequately and in a systemic manner the national minimum standards in regard to the 20 key statistical
activities, as listed in Table-B, which have been presently identified in the context of the ISSP.
Eventually, of course, these standards as also decisions regarding the selection of core statistics would be



                                                    99
set by the present, permanent National Statistical Commission, as a part of discharge of its mandated
functions.

6.3 The objective of the ISSP, in short, is to strengthen the capacity and operations of the Indian
Statistical System in line with the NSC (2001) recommendations, by strengthening the capacity of the
State Statistical Systems. In particular, the project would be designed to give effect to those NSC
recommendations that concern the StatesLJTs, by strengthening the role of the State DESs. The project is
also designed to help build the required capacities at the StatesLJTs level to collect, compile and
disseminate relevant and reliable official statistics, to serve the twin objectives of planning and policy
making at the State and local levels and to provide the data that would be required at the national level in
respect of the identified 20 statistical activities. The project, which is essentially based on the outcomes
of 35 detailed StateLJT reports with regard to "Identifying the Specific Requirements for Strengthening of
State Statistical Bureaus" is also designed to support the objective of reorganization of the State/UT level
DESs in the manner required and the development for the more effective coordination of statistical
activities within the States. It will also help to develop structures to assist the line ministries and other
data agencies to improve the quality and coverage of the data they collect and to promote their usage at
the State/District and Block levels.

6.4      Based on the strategy outlined, ISSP will be implemented in a number of stages with States
setting the goals and targets to be achieved in order to progress from one stage to the next. In the first
stage, those States that are ready to participate immediately, will prepare their State strategic statistical
plan and will also undertake a limited number of short-term reforms and other data quality enhancing
measures. Goals and targets for each subsequent stage will be determined by the priorities as set out in the
State strategic statistical plans.

Expected results, monitoring and reporting
6.5     In a broad sense, the expected results of implementing this strategic plan in the States over the
period of the eleventh Five-Year Plan are shown in Table 7 . The results are indicated for States in each
category; since the starting positions are clearly different, it would be unrealistic to expect all States to
reach the same level after just four or five years.

6.6      In all cases, the aim will be to establish a structure and a capacity for the State statistical system
that will be flexible enough to meet the needs of the State by 2012 and which can develop to meet the
needs in future years. In relation to 20 statistical activities, States will progressively be expected to meet
the national minimum standards as determined by the National Statistical Commission from time to time.
By the end of the eleventh Five-Year Plan, the quality of the different activities will be classified as
medium or high.

6.7      Monitoring of progress towards these results will be done in a number of different ways. As a part
of the reform process and, in line with the NSC 2001 recommendations, the DES in each State will be
encouraged to prepare an annual report on the statistical system as a whole and this report will be
presented to the State Government. At the same time, all State statistical agencies will also be encouraged
to publish and update metadata on statistical methods and procedures. It is anticipated that the framework
for this information will be provided by the National Statistical Commission as a part of its overall
oversight role and it is expected that it may follow the model provided by the IMF's General Data
Dissemination System (GDDS). It is also anticipated that the NSC will set the national minimum
standards for the 20 core statistical activities and these standards will be updated from time to time.

6.8      In addition to monitoring the extent to which States are able to adhere to national standards for
different statistical activities, it is also expected that States will undertake from` time to time user
satisfaction surveys. As part of the ISSP, MOSPI will work with States to prepare a template for such a



                                                   100
      survey and each State participating in the project will be expected to carry out a user survey at least once
      every three years.

      Project Support Group and Monitoring Mechanism in the MOSPI
      6.9      To support the implementation of the strategic plan, MOSPI has already established a Project
      Support Group Headed by the Director General CSO, with a number of senior ISS officers. It is expected
      that the strategic plan will be implemented through the normal Government of India budget processes,
      using current processes for the management of procurement and for financial management.

      6.10 To provide oversight and to monitor implementation, a high-level Steering Committee has been
      constituted under the Secretary (Statistics and Programme Implementation) and Chief Statistician of India
      to monitor the implementation of the proposed project.

                                           Table-A: Advance Release Calendar
                                                                           Contact person:

                               INDIA                                      Addl. Director General
                       Advance Release Calendar                           Central Statistical Organization
                                                                          Ministry of Statistics & Programme
                                                                          Implementation
                                                                          Sardar Pate1 Bhawan
                                                                          Sansad Marg,
                                                                          New Delhi-110 001

                                                                           Phone Number (91-11) 2334 1867
                     Last updated on July / 01/ 09                         Fax Number   (91-11) 2334 2384
                                                                           E-mail:     dgcso@,nic.in


                                            Date of last                                           Release
                                            calendar re-
                                            lease
             Data Category                  (mm/dd/yy)
(and, if different, national descriptor)                                                           2009-10
                                            (Ref. period)       Notes    Jul-09       1     Aug-09      I    ~ep-09   I   Oct-09

                                              May/29/09                                            31
                                                                                          (Apr109 -
                                                                                          Jud09)
                                               (Jad09-
 National accounts                             Mar/09)      -     1/              _           _         ~       -
 Production index                             JUn/12/09                    10                 12              11             12
 (Index of industrial production)                                       (May/09)           (Jud09)          (JuY09)       (Augl09)
                                               (Apr109)

 Consumer price index (Industrial             Jud30109                    31                  31              30            30
 Workers)


LabouredRural Labourers)




                                                            101
  Consumer price index (Urban non-                 /    Jun/22/09        I                    20                20                      21                20
                                                   I                                   I                I                                        II


                                                                                                                                *
manual employees)
                                                                                           (May/09)           (JudO9)                 (Ju1/09)          (Aug09)
                                                          (Apr/09)

  Wholesale price index                                                                                                                 4     1     2
                                                                                                                                    (Au 22/09) (Se /19/09)
                                                                                                                                ~




                                                                                                                                    (Au 29/09)        (Se /26/09)




                                                                                                                                                      (Oct/17/09)

       1/   Dates of release of GDP for Quarters 2 of Calendar Year

       21 Dates of release relate to Monthly Consumer Price index for Industrial Workers, Agricultural Laborers and Rural Labourers for
            the period June 2009 to September 2009.

       3/   Dates of release relate to Wholesale Price Index for the successive weeks starting from week ending 3"' July 2009
            Dates within brackets refer to the reference period of the respective data series




                                                                          102
Table-B: List of some Key Statistical Activities

(9       Estimation of State Domestic Product
(ii)     Estimation of Capital formation and Savings
(iii)    Estimation of District Domestic Product
(iv)     Estimation of the contribution of local bodies
(VI      Compilation of data on major Fiscal variables
( 4      Participation in the conduct of Annual Survey of Industries
(vii)    Compilation of Index of Industrial Production
(viii)   Estimation of Crop area and Production
(ix)     Compilation of Wholesale Price Index numbers
(4       Compilation of Consumer Price Index numbers
(xi>     Collection and compilation of Health, morbidity and mortality and family welfare statistics
(xii)    Collection and compilation of Education and Literacy statistics
(xiii)   Collection and compilation of Labour and Employment statistics
(xiv)    Collection and compilation of Housing statistics
(xv)     Birth and Death registration and Population
(xvi)    Compilation of Electricity production and distribution statistics
(xvii)   Compilation of Environment and Forest statistics
(xv i i i) Participation in the surveys of National Sample Survey Organization
(xix)    Compilation of Transport statistics
(xx)     Collection and compilation of Statistics for local area planning




                                                   103
                   Table 7: Expected Results and Monitoring Framework


        Classification                                     Expected Results

Category I States - Limited         1. Establish basic structure for DES (where necessary), and enable
statistical capacity                it to fulfill coordination role as nodal statistical body
                                    2 . Develop survey capability and the ability to process results and
                                    develop Official Statistics based on Administrative records.
                                    3. Establish coverage, data collection and compilation to meet na-
                                    tional quality standards for GSDP estimates and up to 9 other core
                                    statistical activities
                                    4. Agreed implementation plan to develop State level statistics -
                                    State Statistical Plan - updated annually

Category I1 - Some capacity, but     1. Enable DES to fulfill coordination role as nodal statistical
with structural problems            body;
                                    2 . Improve reliability and timeliness of data sets derived from var-
                                    ious sources including administrative records;
                                    3. Introduce innovative technologies and methods to produce offi-
                                    cial statistics of high quality increased efficiency and improved
                                    timeliness;
                                    4. Establish coverage, data collection and compilation to meet na-
                                    tional quality standards for GSDP estimates and up to 14 other
                                    core statistical activities
                                    5 . Agreed implementation plan to develop State level statistics -
                                    State Statistical Plan - updated annually
Category 111 - Capacity in place,    1. Enable DES to fulfill coordination role as nodal statistical
but more technical support re-      body;
quired                              2 . Improve reliability and timeliness of data sets derived from var-
                                    ious sources including administrative records;
                                    3. Introduce innovative technologies and methods to produce offi-
                                    cial statistics of high quality increased efficiency and improved
                                    timeliness;
                                    4. Ensure State meets all national quality standards for all core
                                    statistical activities;
                                    5 . Develop new data series to meet emerging demands of Statis-
                                    tics;
                                    6. Agreed implementation plan to develop State level statistics -
                                    State Statistical Plan - uDdated annuallv




                                              104
                          VIII: ISSP - CENTRALLY
                      ANNEX                    SPONSORED
                                                       SCHEME


         Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) are specific purpose transfers from the Government of India
(GoI) to the States for influencing expenditure in areas which are the States' constitutional responsibility.
Such schemes are formulated and, to a large extent, financed by Go1 while the responsibility for imple-
mentation primarily rests with the States. The objective is to address issues of national priority with spe-
cial focus on human development, poverty alleviation and rural backwardness.

         Given its nature and design many of the large CSS are characterized by a large number of imple-
mentation units, including Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs) and community based organizations (CBOs)
which have relatively low capacity and limited awareness of the broad purposes of the schemes. CSS are
also characterized by funds flow constraints as funds have to pass through many intermediate level insti-
tutions. Besides, while Go1 provides the funds it does not have direct control over implementation as this
rests with the States and lower-level implementing units, thereby leading to diffused accountability.

         Recently there have been a number of initiatives to improve the design of these schemes and ISSP
is one such example. Its innovative design includes giving States the opportunity to design, prioritize,
and implement their own statistical strengthening strategies within a national policy framework. It aims
at strengthening institutions at State level and is not dependent on CBOs for its implementation. The
transfers from the Center will pass through the State budgets and be subject to the normal Go1 rules for
financial management and audit.




                                                  105
                   IX:         MOSPI's IMPLEMENTATION
               ANNEX STRENGTHENING                 SUPPORT
                                               OVERVIEW
1. Successful implementation of ISSP, defined in terms of the improved performance of the State
   statistical systems and measured by improvements in the quality and coverage of key statistics, will
   only be achieved if all the implementing agencies have the capacity needed to carry out their roles.
   This Annex sets out the main implementing structures and processes, identifies the problems that may
   be encountered and outlines the main approaches that will be needed to solve them. The annex also
   identifies how the Bank will provide support to the implementation process.

                                     IMPLEMENTATION OF ISSP

2. ISSP provides support to strengthen the capacity and performance of State statistical systems. The
   implementing agencies at the State level are the nodal agencies formally identified by the State and
   UT Governments. In most cases these are the State Departments of Economics and Statistics (DES).
   Support to States will be provided through ISSP, a Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Go1 and the
   sponsoring agency of ISSP is the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation. The Bank is
   supporting the Nation-wide scheme (ISSP) through the Statistical Strengthening Loan provided to
   GoI, on the basis of which the Government has approved the financing of ISSP for the remaining
   period of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan.

3 . The main implementing agencies involved are as follows:
    0  The team of senior officer called Project Support Group (PSG) established by MOSPI
    0  The Departments of Economic and Statistics or their equivalents in the participating States

4. The other structures which will play an important role are:
      A national high-level Steering Committee, chaired by the Chief Statistician of India
      The Conference of Center and State Statistical Organizations
      State ISSP Steering Committees that have been or will be set up by participating State and UT
      Governments and which will be chaired by the Chief Secretary, these Committees will meet at
      least once a quarter
      Senior statistical officers of the central Government at the level of DDG (equivalent to Secretaries
      in States), who are posted in States and who serve as a liaison on statistical issues between
      MOSPI and the States; the DDGs will be members of the State Steering Committees
      Senior statistical officers posted in line ministries to ensure better horizontal coordination
      including administrative data issues.

5 . A number of information flows will be initiated by ISSP. The most important have been identified
    as follows.
        Within States, DES will prepare quarterly progress reports for the State Steering Committees,
        which will meet at least once a quarter
        State Steering Committees will approve reports to be submitted to MOSPI, through the PSG at a
        frequency to be agreed, but at least once every six months. The format of the reports and the
        information to be provided, especially the progress indicators to be used will be set out in the
        MoUs that will be signed
        DDGs based in the States will report to MOSPI once every two months and will meet as a group
        at least twice a year
        States, through the Directors of Economics and Statistics and Planning Secretaries, will
        participate in COCSSO meetings once a year. ISSP implementation will be a permanent agenda
        item for every COCSSO meeting.

                                                106
    0   The Project Support Group will prepare a summary report on progress with ISSP, identifying
        specific problems or concerns for consideration. Once approved by the Committee the report will
        be published on the MOSPI web-site.
        In addition, sites verifications and field review missions are envisaged.
        A more comprehensive annual report on ISSP will be prepared by MOSPI and published once it
        has been considered and approved by the national high-level Steering Committee

                               POTENTIAL PROBLEMS AND CONCERNS

6 . It is clear that the State statistical systems are at very different levels of development and have
    different capacities. In a number of the more advanced States, those classified in Category 111, the
    capacity to manage the implementation of ISSP successfully and for real results to be achieved is
    substantial. In other States, especially those in Categories I and 11, where capacity is inherently weak
    to start with, there are likely to be more problems. The kinds of problems that may be expected to
    occur include:
         Inadequate leadership and management of the DES
         Lack of attention by the State or UT Government
         Problems of coordination between agencies and inter-agency rivalry
    0    Inadequate capacity to monitor what is happening and inadequate information flows, both within
         the statistical system and externally
         Gaps in technical capacity to address some pressing statistical concerns
         Lack of adequate manpower with the right skills
         Poor motivation of staff and perceived threats by some groups
         Inadequate capacity to manage finances and delays in procurement, especially at sub-state levels

7. It will be the responsibility of the PSG, with the assistance of the DDGs based in the States to identify
   these problems and to put appropriate responses in place. The potential responses include the
   following.
       Providing direct assistance by PSG staff to the State
   0   Hiring appropriately qualified consultants to work with the State or States concerned
       Bringing issues up at COCSSO where a sufficient number of States are affected
       Preparing and disseminating guidance and other related material
       Organizing training courses through NASA or with other agencies if required
   0   Following up with the State Government through the CSI, DG CSO or the NSC where
       appropriate

                                                MEASURES
                                        MITIGATION
8. There are a number of in-built incentives within the implementation plan that will help to promote the
   flow of information and support activities. Once States have prepared their SSSPs, they will then
   agree and sign an MoU with MOSPI that will set out how they propose to implement their strategic
   plans, the results they propose to achieve, the indicators to be used to measure progress and how these
   will be reported. The MoUs will also set out how financial resources from MOSPI will be distributed
   to States on the basis of the results. After the first initial transfer, once the MoU is signed, therefore,
   States will be required to provide reports on progress and results in order to become eligible for the
   next transfer.

9. At the same time the DDGs in the States will have a crucial role to play. They will be monitoring
   progress on the ground and through their regular reports should be able to identify problems at an


                                                  107
    early enough stage for remedial action to be taken. There will also be regular face to face contact
    between the DDGs and the PSG in MOSPI.

10. The main resources available to PSG to implement responses to capacity problems at the State level
    include the following:
    0   The World Bank trust fund being used to initiate activities until ISSP is operational. The
        resources available to the trust fund have been increased and the closing date has been extended
        to June 30, 2010. A limited amount from the trust fund will be available to PSG to hire
        consultants.
    0   Once ISSP is effective, the States will be able to use the funds to hire technical assistance as
        required. PSG will also be able to make use of some funds, at least one per cent of the total
        budget for ISSP, that is RS 6.5 crores (about US$1.3 million)
        The World Bank through its supervision of the trust fund will also be able to provide support and
        advice to PSG. It is not envisaged, however, that the World Bank will be able to provide support
        directly to States.

11. At this stage it is not possible for MOSPI to determine what requirements, if any, there will be for
    further technical assistance either at the center or in States until the first SSSPs have been completed,
    the MoUs have been signed, and implementation has begun. At this point, probably about six to 12
    months after the project has started, MOSPI will evaluate its capacity and will decide what additional
    resources, if any, will be required to support implementation. If it is felt that additional technical
    assistance will be needed and that a separate process is needed to finance that, then Go1 will initiate
    discussions with interested donors, including the Bank.

                             BANKSUPPORT TO ISSP IMPLEMENTATION

12. Although the loan will be fully disbursed as soon as it becomes effective, in practice the nature of the
    reform and capacity strengthening process that the loan is supporting requires that there should be a
    more sustained interaction between the World Bank and MOSPI as the implementing agency. This
    interaction and involvement is expected to involve a number of activities:
        Supervision of technical assistance projects, in the first instance through the existing World Bank
        trust fund.
        Attending meetings of the national, high-level Steering Committee.
        Participation in joint GoVWorld Bank reviews to be scheduled at roughly six-month intervals.
        Preparation of possible follow up operations, if both Go1 and the Bank decide that these should be
        needed.
        Completion of an Implementation Completion and Results (ICR) report.

13. Following the January 2009 sensitization workshop on ISSP that was held in Delhi, those States that
    have already signed LOPS were encouraged to start the process of preparing the strategic statistical
    plans. As part of this process States have identified the requirements for technical assistance and it is
    intended that initially, until the loan becomes effective and MOSPI is able to begin the process of
    transferring funds to States, the trust fund will be used to finance the costs of this assistance. The
    Bank will continue to execute the trust fund in collaboration with MOSPI until June 30, 2010.

14. As outlined in Section VI (paragraph 122), the Bank will remain engaged with ISSP through a
    number of mechanisms, of which the first is participation in the national, high-level Steering
    Committee. The terms of reference for the Committee are set out in Annex V and include
    formulating policy for the implementation of the project, approving reports from States, and initiating
    any follow-up action required. The Bank representative will receive all the papers and will be able to



                                                  108
   monitor progress on a regular basis. Once ISSP begins implementation, it is intended that the
   Committee will meet at least once every quarter and more frequently if required.

15. It has been agreed with MOSPI that joint review missions for ISSP will be organized to take place at
    about six-monthly intervals. One of the missions is expected to focus on a review of documentation
    and, unless there are specific reasons to visit States, will not usually involve any field trips outside
    Delhi. The second mission will follow up with a limited number of selected States. The program and
    terms of reference for each mission will be prepared in advance and will be approved by the high-
    level Steering Committee. At the end of each mission a joint Aide Memoire will be prepared, which
    will set out an agreed action plan to be forwarded to the high-level Steering Committee.

16. The timing of the review missions will be agreed jointly between MOSPI and the Bank, but it is
    intended that they will coincide with key events, including, for example, COCSSO meetings, high-
    level Steering Committee meetings and other activities such as India Statistics Day. Each mission
    will last for between five and ten working days.

17. The decision as to whether or not to proceed with the preparation of a second loan will depend on
    progress with ISSP and whether Go1 will continue with the project into the period of the Twelfth
    Plan. Preparation of the second operation would follow a formal request from Go1 to the World Bank
    and this would be based on the outcomes of earlier review missions as well as detailed discussions by
    the high-level Steering Committee.

                                   MOSPI INTERACTION WITH STATESAJTS
18. The issue of assigning certain additional functions relating to the nodal statistical role of this
    Ministry, to the Deputy Director Generals (DDGs) of the Indian Statistical Service in the field offices
    of the National Sample Survey Organization (NSSO(F0D)) has been under consideration by MOSPI
    for quite some time. In 2008 it was decided, in consultation with the National Statistical
    Commission, that the DDGs posted in the field offices shall, in addition to their assigned work in
    NSSO (FOD) discharge the following functions to assist the Central Statistical Organization (CSO) in
    its statistical coordination work with the State Governments and UT Administrations.

       (i)      Coordinate the sharing and flow of information between Central and the State Government
                / UT Administration on statistical matters.
       (ii)     Coordinate with the State Government / UT Administration with regard to implementation
                of the decisions taken in the Conferences of Central and State Statistical Organizations.
       (iii)    Coordinate with the State Government / UT Administration on the implementation of na-
                tional statistical standards and data quality.
       (iv)     Advise State Government / UT Administration on the implementation of all activities relat-
                ing to statistics declared as ?core statistics? in the State and UT.
       (v)      Represent the Centre in the implementation of Central and Centrally Sponsored Schemes
                on statistical matters in the State / UT.
       (vi)     Represent the Central Statistical System in all committees set up by the State Government /
                UT Administration on statistical matters, as requested by the State / UT.
       (vii)    Assess and advise the Centre on the availability of data at State / UT level, which may be
                used for compilation of national level statistics.
       (viii)   Assess and assist on the capacity development of the statistical system of State / UT.
       (ix)     Any other specific item of work assigned by the Chief Statistician of India.

19. There has been no change in the reporting system in the NSSO (FOD) in respect of the DDGs
    assigned with the nodal functions. However, in respect of the these functions, they shall submit
    reports to the Chief Statistician of India periodically as may be required.



                                                  109
                                          x:
                                      ANNEX LETTER PARTICIPATION
                                                 OF


                                                       OVERVIEW

1.       The Letter of Participation (LOP) is the first stage of participation by StatesNTs in the India Sta-
tistical Strengthening Program. It is signed by the Chief Secretary of any State that wishes to participate
in the Program. In the LOP States undertake to implement a number of specific measures to support and
improve the activities of their statistical system including in particular the preparation of a detailed State
Strategic Statistical Plan (SSSP). The SSSP will set out in detail how each State proposes to generally
strengthen the statistical capacity across the entire State statistical system and in particular implement the
recommendations of the National Statistical Commission (NSC) and the National Strategic Statistical
Plan (NSSP). By July 15,2009 twenty two States have signed the LOPs0.

                                             LETTER PARTICIPATION
                                                  OF

2.       By signing the LOP the Government of a State agrees to participate in the India Statistical
Strengthening Program. The Program is aimed at strengthening the information base for policy
formulation and planning by improving the reliability, credibility, timeliness and coverage of the
statistical system (see Annex VII). The part of the Program covered by the LOP is designed to strengthen
the institutional framework for State statistics in India which will include the State DES or its equivalent
and also the State line departments which are involved in the process of statistical data collection. States
will have full freedom to design and implement their own strategic plans for strengthening of the State
statistical system and meeting State-level statistical priorities keeping in mind the requirement of
providing consistent and comparable statistics across a range of key areas and also a common set of
activities that every State Government should aim to attain in the near future (see Annex I).

3.         The measures that a State commits to comply with are as follows:
          Conforming to the national vision: Consistent with the major role that States play in contributing
          to national statistics, (in addition to meeting State-level needs), and to ensure that all State efforts
          support national needs as well as State needs, the State commits to subscribe and conform to the
          national vision and the strategic policy framework as set out in the NSSP.
          Establishing an effective mechanism for coordinating statistical activities in the State:
          Coordination of statistical activities at the State level is seen by the NSC as critical for
          strengthening the State statistical systems. To this end the State agrees to identify and designate an
          agency, if already not done so, as the nodal agency for all statistical matters in the State. As part of
          the strategic plan, the State Government is expected to identify and then put in place effective
          mechanisms for coordinating statistical activities in line with the recommendations of the 200 1
          NSC Report. In particular the Government is expected to ensure that the nodal statistical agency,
          (in most cases the Directorate of Economics and Statistics (DES)) is able to fulfill its role in the
          State and to put in place mechanisms to ensure, inter alia, the more effective coordination of
          surveys and censuses, and the reduction of the burden on respondents to different statistical
          enquiries and the reduction of the duplication of different indicators for the same or similar
          variables.
          Operational support for the Program: The State agrees to designate a single nodal agency of the
          State Government for the purpose of the Program and to be the Point of Interaction with MOSPI,
          create an exclusive/dedicated budget line for the ISSP to be managed by the designated nodal
          agency, and establish a Steering Committee for the Program under the Chairmanship of the Chief
          Secretary with a representative of MOSPI, and empowered to issue the necessary directions to

50
     See the Table below for the list of States that have signed LOPS as of July 15, 2009

                                                         110
        State agencies concerned with statistical matters. As at February 2008 the Conference of Central
        and State Statistical Organizations (COCSSO) had noted that 29 States had declared the DES as
        nodal agency and had requested that the matter be taken up by the NSC with the remaining States.
  0     Preparation of a SSSP: The cornerstone of the Program will be the development of a SSSP by
        each State. The State commits to develop a SSSP drawn on the basis of the broad directions
        contained in the NSSP and incorporating the specific needs and priorities of the State Government
        in terms of other statistics; the SSSP is to be drawn also on the basis of the State-specific report
        that has been prepared by MOSPI for each State. It is expected that within 12 months of the LOP
        becoming effective, the State Government will prepare and endorse a SSSP and make it publicly
        available.
  e     Implementation of the SSSP: State Governments commit to develop, in consultation with
        MOSPI, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Government of India (GoI) to
        implement the SSSP. (See para 1 of Annex XI1 for the expected contents of the MoU).
  e     Resource commitments (financial and technical): The State Government undertakes to provide,
        if, when and wherever required, the necessary land and/or buildings, manpower and also meet all
        associated recurring expenditure for implementation of the SSSP and the specific provisions of the
        MoU. The State Government expresses the expectation that MOSPI will provide the necessary
        technical and financial assistance to meet the non-recurring expenditure for implementing the
        SSSP by the State within the limits of the Program; MOSPI has confirmed this expectation in the
        covering letter transmitting the draft LOP to State Governments.

4.      Collecting, compiling and publishing data: The State Government agrees to collect, compile
and disseminate the stipulated datdstatistics as-prescribed in the MoU in accordance with the norms and
standards as may be issued from time to time by the GoI. The stipulated datdstatistics are expected to be
from among the 20 core statistical activities as identified by MOSPI. MOSPI is committed to prepare
norms and standards in relation to the 20 core statistical activities in the coming 24 months; as at 20
March 20 10 eight such manuals have been prepared.

                                         AFTER THE LOP IS SIGNED

5.       Transfers to the State: Upon the signing of this LOP and its becoming effective, MOSPI under-
takes to make a transfer to the State Government of XX" Crore Rupees in the form of a subvention to the
State budget for statistical activities. It is expected that further transfers will be made as and when the
State SSSP is completed and approved and a MoU is signed between the State Government and GoI.




Category*        States
      I          Andaman & Nicobar Islands
     I1          Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Pondicheny, Punjab
    I11          Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, J&K,
                 Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Orissa, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttaranchal, Uttar
                 Pradesh and West Bengal




51 The amount of the initial transfer is to be determined, but is expected to be of the order of Rs 2 Crore (USO.5
million)

                                                       111
                         ANNEX STATE
                             XI:           STATISTICAL
                                    STRATEGIC       PLANS

                                                 OVERVIEW

1, By signing the Letter of Participation (LOP) the StatesWTs enter the first stage of participation in the
    ISSP. A part of a program covered by LOP aims to strengthen the institutional capacity for State sta-
    tistics and includes (i) designation of a nodal agency for statistical matters (if not so done yet) to be
    possible a point of interaction with MOSPI, (ii) creation of a dedicated budget line for the ISSP and
    (iii) establishment of a Steering Committee for the ISSP.

2. At present 22 States and UTs have signed the LOPS. The DESs in 29 States and UTs are declared as a
   nodal agency. 16th COCSSO meeting agreed on preparation of a model draft notification for declar-
   ing State DESs to be sent to those DESs which are not yet been declared as nodal agencies. Six
   States have already constituted a High-level Steering Committee to oversee the preparation and im-
   plementation of the State Strategic Statistical Plan (SSSP or Plan) under ISSP.

3. The first activity of StatesiUTs participating in the ISSP is to prepare a State Strategic Statistical Plan.
   MOSPI is providing support to the States and in this regard has prepared, discussed the Guidelines
   with StatesiUTs at the SSSP Sensitization Workshop in January 2009 and distributed them to assist
   States in their Plans preparation. With understanding that the entire task of Plan preparation has to be
   led, directed and completely owned by the State Government, the process of selection of consultants
   to be engaged in the SSSPs' development has already started under MOSPI supervision in five States
   within the NLTA framework. Two States communicated their decision to prepare their SSSPs in-
   house.

4. The SSSP is expected to provide a State with a strategy for strengthening statistical capacity across
   the entire State Statistical System (SSS). The preparation of a SSSP provides the opportunity for all
   stakeholders to (i) assess the current status of statistics and identify the main constraints affecting sta-
   tistical activities in the State, largely based on the baseline assessment prepared in 2006/07 (see foot-
   note 18 above), (ii) review data needs of all users, (iii) provide a vision for where the SSS should be
   in five to ten years setting out agreed medium-term goals for improving the quality, coverage and
   timeliness of official statistics (iv) set out the most appropriate strategies to address the constraints
   and achieve the goals (v) set out a viable, technically sound, and user-oriented detailed implementa-
   tion plan, with annual targets, work plans and actions to put the strategies into effect covering capaci-
   ty building for the institutions, data production, dissemination and other reforms aimed at achieving
   the desired improvements. The work program for capacity building and operations should be realisti-
   cally costed and a budget prepared.

5 . The SSSP should provide a framework for (i) monitoring achievement of the Plan including the speci-
    fication of indicators to monitor progress and suitable reporting mechanisms; (ii) continual assess-
    ment of the Plan, consultation with users to keep abreast of user needs, and review of priorities for
    statistics; (iii) ensuring that statistical activities are being developed and managed in as coordinated,
    efficient and effective a manner as possible over time, and (iv) mobilizing resources, both State and
    national, through the India Statistical Strengthening Project (ISSP).

6. The Plan should be based on widespread consultation with data providers, statistical agencies and
   other stakeholders,




                                                   112
7 . In line with international best practice, the SSSPs should be integrated into both State and national
    development policy processes and context, taking account of national and local commitments and
    needs. They should:

        Have political support and commitment, and be championed by senior State officials and leaders;
        Be demand-focused and user-friendly, responding to needs and priorities for information to help
        State Governments to manage for results;
        Develop statistics as a public good, funded from State Government budgets, complemented,
        where required, by support from the Center;
        Be coordinated and be consistent with national and State development policy, including for the
        design, monitoring and evaluation of growth and poverty reduction strategies; and
        Take into account relevant legislation, orders and regulations, recommending changes where
        appropriate.

                           THEPROCESS AND SOME KEY CHARACTERISTICS

8. The SSSPs should be developed in an inclusive way with all stakeholders, incorporating results-based
   management principles promoting the meeting of agreed quality standards and providing for
   management of implementation. In particular States will be supported to ensure that the Plans:

        Are based on a comprehensive consensus-building and advocacy process, which helps build
        commitment and partnerships, with clear processes for consultation throughout;
        Are the output of State led, inclusive consultations with all the main stakeholder groups (e.g., data
        users, producers and analysts, State and central Government departments, the private sector, civil
        society organizations, and other specialized agencies);
    0   Focus on results, such as the supply of statistical information that is fit for purpose and provides
        value for money; maintaining appropriate statistical production and dissemination procedures;
        ensuring user satisfaction; strengthening governance and accountability; supporting State and
        national policies; developing human resources for statistical work; and protecting confidentiality;
        Are in line with good practice and the values and principles of the United Nations Fundamental
        Principles of Official Statistics and the Indian Statistical System as a whole;
        Promote coherence with both national and international standards for statistics in different areas.
        Provide for management of the Plan's implementation with performance indicators and a
        performance reporting, monitoring and evaluation plan.

9. How the SSSP is developed will vary from State to State and will depend on a number of factors, in-
   cluding what is already in place, the local environment for statistics, and administrative structures.
   The SSSP should build on institutions, the legal basis, procedures, outputs and other elements that are
   already in place and assessed to be appropriate.

10. States should be able to benefit selectively from the experience of other States in the development of
   their SSSPs. For example all States will probably need to develop the following which would be very
   similar from State to State (it may be useful for drafts/templates/guidelines to be issued (by MOSPI)
   to help States with these). Also, States may be able to benefit selectively from the SSSP work done by
   other States (especially in the areas listed below):

    0   Human Resources Assessment and Development PladStrategy-quantity and quality
    0   Training Needs Assessment and Plan (including physical installations for training at State, re-
        gional and national level)
        Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Assessment and Strategy

                                                  113
       List of innovative technologies appropriate for States
       ICT Hardware and Software Specifications
       Common software programmes for data validation, processing, table generation, data-base main-
       tenance and others
       How to develop and implement a web-site and what to put on it
       Specifications of a State Data Bank and its Establishment and Operation (drawing on existing
       best practices such as the UNICEF DevInfo.
       Specification of the appropriate statistical infrastructure that States should develop to support sta-
       tistical operations, such as registers, sampling frames, GIs, survey organization, standard classifi-
       cations and data-bases
       Specification of the set of metadata to be available to users
       Advocacy Plan
       Agenda for a Workshop to launch the ISSP/SSSP process in a State
       Prepare a model Road Map for a State
       Develop a Model Communications Plan for a State
       Programme of User Consultations/Seminars and Agendas for them; Agenda for a Producer-User
       Workshop
       Standard questionnaire for assessing user satisfaction
       Specification of the Responsibilities of the SSB as Nodal Agency
       Strategy for Improving Coordination
       A standardized method for evaluation of the overall data production system in a State including
       data sources, collection methods, sampling techniques, supervision, data review, data processing
       and dissemination
       Standard questionnaire for assessment of the statistical capability and operations of State-level
       line departments
       An information document to States describing the IMF Special Data Dissemination Standard and
       the State contribution to compliance with it
       Data Dissemination Policy
       Programme for Outreach to Providers of Raw Data to Improve Response Rates
       State Statistical Legislation Complementary to the National Legislation
       A Programme to Review Ways to Improve Administrative Records and their Use for Statistical
       Purposes
       A common methodology for quality assessment
       Analysis of State actions that could be usefully replicated in other States
       Statistics for local area planning and techniques to develop and improve them

11. The preparation of a good SSSP requires a carefully managed process. The first phase is launch-
   ing/leading the SSSP process and preparing the SSSP Design Road Map. The decision to develop an
   SSSP has already been made in the Letter of Participation (LOP). The agencies leading the prepara-
   tion of the SSSP will need to prepare a plan/ or Road Map/ or calendar of actions that will set out
   what needs to be done, by whom, when and how it will be financed (A suggested outline for the Road
   Map is contained in the Guidelines disseminated by MOSPI to States/UTs in a National Workshop
   held on January 14, 2009 and published on MOSPI web-site). The SSSP guidelines is the reference
   document for all participants in the preparation of the SSSP. Arrangements for coordination and con-
   sultation with users and producers need to be set up in this phase. Other phases lead to preparing the
   Plan according to the outline set out below.




                                                 114
                          OUTLINE OF STATE STRATEGIC STATISTICAL PLANS"

Background and description of the current State Statistical System
12. This section covers all of the official decisions and rationale that have led to the decision to produce a
    SSSP. It should define the scope of the SSS, its current situation, recent studies and initiatives. It
    should include an overview of the NSSP, introduction of the 20 core statistical activities, and review
    of State and national Government general and sectoral public policy development and reform strate-
    gies and their implications for State statistics. It should provide an overview of the goals and process
    of the SSSP including a list of all agencies and entities involved in the consultations. The description
    of the current SSS should include a general description of the structure of the system (decentralized),
    and other features such as overall resources deployed, any arrangements for standard setting, coordi-
    nation among producers, interaction with users, and the existence of and operation of a statistical ca-
    dre. For each of the main statistical agencies, the functions and responsibilities, including details of
    activities, budgets, staff, and outputs and services should be described.

Assessment/diagnosis of the current status of the SSS
13. The SSSPs will be based on the detailed assessment of the performance, capacities and needs of each
    State that was completed in 2006 and 2007 (see footnote 18 above), updated where relevant and ex-
    panded as necessary to take into account any significant new developments and other statistical ac-
    tivities including those carried out to meet StateAocal data needs which were not assessed in the
    2006/2007 studies. The assessment will also include the identification of the main factors constrain-
    ing data quality, coverage and timeliness, and the strengths and weaknesses of the statistical system in
    the State. The current outputs from the statistical system will be assessed against the needs and de-
    mands of data users and agreed standards to assess their fitness for purpose. The assessment should
    lead to an understanding of the supportiveness of the external environment for statistics, the adequacy
    of management, resources, and statistical operations and the extent to which outputs meet user needs
    for the SSS as a whole and of the individual agencies. It should take account of any existing im-
    provement programmes. Specific elements of assessment should include the statistical environment,
    legislation, coordination among producers, consultation with users, institutional, organizational and
    management arrangements including statistical cadre, adequacy of resources and statistical operations
    for data production and dissemination.

Identification of Mission, Vision, Strategic Goals, Priorities, and Strategies
14. In the case of the States of India there is some guidance on the mission and vision as the national
   mission and vision are set out in the NSSP and the MOSPI web-site. As per the LOP, States should
    subscribe and conform to the national vision and strategic policy framework as set out in the draft
   NSSP. States may build further on the national vision if desired. In this section of the plan, States will
   identify through a dialogue with stakeholders appropriate medium-term strategic goals for their sta-
   tistical systems. The strategic goals will aim to addresshesolve strategic or important issues which
   will have been identified during the assessment phase and which relate to achieving the vision. The
   goals may relate to what is wanted to be achieved by the Government and other stakeholders in rela-
   tion to inputs, data production systems and outputs, and management processes depending on both the
   current and expected needs of data users in relation to current ability to meet those needs. The State
   specific goals will need to be consistent with the overall mission, vision and goals of the national sta-
   tistical system as set out in the NSSP. Strategic planners of a SSS will be faced with a wide variety of
   conflicting requirements and will need to decide on priorities as it is unlikely that everything can be
   done at the same time. The process of consultation with users will help with prioritizing the require-
   ments, and clear messages on priority needs should be provided by State and national policy
   processes and in development plans. The final decision on priorities will need to be made at a senior

52
  This is in accordance with the SSSP guidelines prepared by MOSPI. These guidelines have been shared and dis-
cussed with States at a National Workshop organized on January 14,2009.

                                                   115
    level in State Government. The 20 core statistical activities represent priorities for all States under the
    NSSP and LOP. Having decided on priorities, it will be necessary to develop strategies to build the
    capacities needed to reach the goals. These strategies will most likely include:

        Improving environmental, legal, coordination, institutional, organizational, management and
        consultation effectiveness ;
        HR acquisition and development (training); the SSSP should explain where the additional staff
        required will come from, the cost and administrative implications and the timetable. The impact
        that staff constraints will have on statistical development should be carefully considered and spelt
        out;
        Improving physical facilities;
        Improving ICT;
        Improving statistical infrastructure;
        Improving the adequacy of financial resources;
        Strengthening methodology and statistical operations and procedures to support accuracy, relia-
        bility, usefulness/serviceability and relevance of data, and dissemination and access to the data by
        users.

15. The strategies may be broad-based, applying to the SSS as a whole or unique to particular State-level
    agencies/organizations and their technical areas such as economic and financial statistics, social sta-
    tistics, agriculture statistics, health statistics, labour statistics, environment statistics and other fields
    of statistics.

Preparing an Implementation Plan, and Budget and Financing Plan
16. States will set out a detailed implementation plan, which will describe how the different strategies
    are to be put into effect. The plan will set out what is to be done, by whom and when. It should
    specify actions needed to reach each of the goals. It should also identify what results and outputs will
    be achieved. In particular the implementation plan will set out an integrated program, which:

        Builds capacity to implement and adapt the strategies
        Improves statistical operations to produce statistics that are fit for purpose
        Turns statistics into information through analysis, dissemination, publicity and support for users
        Is prioritized and timetabled (not everything can be done at once)
        Provides the framework for (annual) work plans
        Is realistic, pragmatic and flexible enough to cope with changes in priorities and new information
        needs
        Outlines the resource requirements taking into account the constraints
        Places emphasis on how activities supported through the SSSP are to be sustained once central
        support has finished

17. The implementation plan will include detailed costs, and an overall budget and a financing plan. Clear
    distinctions will need to be made between costs for land and/or buildings, manpower and all
    associated recurring expenditures (to be funded by States) and the non-recurrent expenditures (to be
    met by MOSPI) under the ISSP.




                                                    116
Implementation, Performance Indicators and Monitoring, Reporting on Progress and
Evaluation

18. Implementation of the SSSP may require that a number of changes be made - in work ethics,
    organizational culture and structures, procedures etc. Management capacity needs to be developed
    to implement the strategy, including leadership, communicating with stakeholders, creating
    awareness, and maintaining external and internal support. Once States have prepared and adopted
    their SSSPs, these will then form the basis for signing MoUs with MOSPI, which will provide
    detailed support for implementation over a five year period based on performance by the States. It is
    important, therefore that the State plans include an effective management and accountability
    framework, including the identification of performance indicators for monitoring and
    corresponding mechanisms for reporting on progress. Performance indicators should be identified
    and agreed up front.

19. States will be supported and encouraged to develop a fairly short list of indicators that can readily be
    compiled, and which can mostly be generated as implementation takes place. The indicators for any
    State will depend upon the goals and strategies selected by a State but will need to (i) indicate
    whether or not the goals are being achieved, (ii) track inputs, activities and outputs, (iii) determine
    whether implementation is on course, (iv) alert management to problems or potential problems before
    the situation becomes critical, and (v) enable analysis that would suggest the corrective actions
    needed to ensure that performance conforms to strategy or that the strategy is revised in light of new
    experience.

20. In consultation with MOSPI States will be required to report on progress twice a year; wherever
    possible existing reporting mechanisms will be used. For example, the State could use published
    metadata to report on data quality and compliance with standards, and publication schedules to report
    on coverage and compliance with advance release calendars to be assessed.

21. Given the importance of increasing user satisfaction, States will be encouraged and supported to
    establish mechanisms to measure and report on the extent to which user needs are being met. There
    are a number of different mechanisms that States can use to do this, including carrying out periodic
    user satisfaction surveys, monitoring access to web-sites and demand for printed publications,
    providing feedbackhornplaints through web-sites and other mechanisms and using techniques such as
    focus group interviews. States will select the mechanisms that are best suited to their particular
    situation.

22. Provision should be made within the SSSP for evaluation to be conducted of the SSSP process and its
    implementation. Two evaluations can be scheduled; a light one at the midpoint, and at the end a more
    comprehensive evaluation to assess the most successful activities and the most significant constraints
    and generally to assess how well the strategy will have met the set goals.




                                                 117
                              XII: MEMORANDUMUNDERSTANDING
                          ANNEX            OF

                                                OVERVIEW

1. Once States and Union Territories have signed a Letter of Participation (LOP) and have a State
Strategic Statistical Plan (SSSP) formally approved by the State Government (expected to be
approximately 12 months after signing the LOP), they will enter the second stage of their participation in
the program, the implementation of the SSSP, by preparing and signing a Memorandum of Understanding
(MoU) between the State and MOSPI. The MoU will be an operational document laying out an agreed
programme for (a) the detailed implementation of the SSSP which will reflect statistical priorities of both
the State and national Government and (b) the resources that will be made available by MOSPI and the
State. In return for both financial and technical support from MOSPI States will agree to improve the
coverage, quality, timeliness and credibility of their official statistics.

2. The MoU will commit the State to a medium-term strategic framework for five years detailing
specific agreed outcomes and the mechanisms for reaching the agreed outcomes in the five year period,
which will help the State to adhere to its implementation plan for sustaining the broad policy framework
available in the NSSP. In particular the MoU will prescribe, inter alia, the stipulated datdstatistics that a
StateAJT would need to collect, compile and disseminate in accordance with the norms and standards as
may be issued from time to time by the Government of India. Basically the MoU will set out the program
of specific reforms and capacity building that the State proposes to carry out to strengthen the State
statistical system and the outputs and outcomes that it commits to produce. The MoU will include specific
targets, milestones and progress indicators. It will commit the State to providing the recurrent resources
needed to maintain the State statistical system, and will specify how, at what level and in what time-frame
budget and technical support from MOSPI will be made available to the State. The MOSPI support will
be in agreed disbursements against the agreed targets, milestones and progress indicators. MOSPI will
provide financial resources in support of preparing the MoUs.

                                          PREPARING THE MOU

3. The preparation of the MoU will be based on a negotiation between MOSPI and a State, based on the
SSSP. In practice it is expected that MOSPI, through the CSO, will be an active participant in the
preparation process of the SSSP and that the needs and concerns of national statistics will have already
been taken into account in the Plan along with State-specific needs and concerns. It will be necessary,
however, for MOSPI formally to reassure itself that the Plan and the MoU provides a realistic process of
reform and capacity building and that the State will, over time, be able to meet its obligations in respect of
providing the prescribed data for the compilation of national statistics according to the set standards. Once
agreement has been reached it is expected that the MoU will include the following components.

     THESTATE REFORM AND STATISTICAL STRENGTHENING PROGRAM: IMPLEMENTATION PLAN

4.       The MoU will include an outline of the reform and capacity building program proposed by the
State including the priorities, strategies, the goals and targets to be achieved and how the various reforms
are to be put into effect; these will be taken from the Implementation Plan included in the SSSP or will be
included in the MoU by reference to the SSSP (to avoid duplicative work). It is expected that the reforms
will include:

        Improving environmental, legal, coordination, institutional, organizational, management and
        consultation effectiveness ;
        HR acquisition and development (training); the SSSP should explain where the additional staff
        required will come from, the cost and administrative implications and the timetable. The impact


                                                  118
        that staff constraints will have on statistical development should be carefully considered and spelt
        out;
        Improving physical facilities;
        Improving ICT;
        Improving statistical infrastructure;
        Improving the adequacy of financial resources;
        Strengthening methodology and statistical operations and procedures to support accuracy, relia-
        bility, usefulness/serviceability and relevance of data, and dissemination and access to the data by
        users.

          The strategies may be broad-based, applying to the SSS as a whole or unique to particular State-
level agenciedorganizations and their technical areas such as economic and financial statistics, social sta-
tistics, agriculture statistics, health statistics, labour statistics, environment statistics and other fields of
statistics.

6.       The MoU will include a time frame for the reforms and will also identify which statistical
agencies or organizations are responsible for implementing the various elements of the reforms and which
will be the ultimate recipients of support from MOSPI.

                                         RESOURCE     REQUIREMENTS

7.      The MoU will include an outline of the financing plan; this will be based on the Budget and
Financing Plan included in the SSSP or will be included in the MoU by reference to the SSSP (to avoid
duplicative work). It will set out what is to be financed by the State and what support is to be provided by
MOSPI. The responsibilities of the States and MOSPI in this regard are specified in the LOP as follows:
"(a) The StateKJTs would need to provide.. , ..the necessary land and/or buildings, manpower and also
meet all associated recurring expenditure.. . ...,and (b) .. . MOSPI on its part, to provide the necessary
technical and financial assistance to meet the non-recurring expenditures.. ......" Although the details will
remain to be agreed with each participating State, it is expected that budget support will be provided on
an annual basis while the State participates in the program, subject to satisfactory progress being
achieved. Other support and its timing may be identified and agreed and included in the MoU. The
ultimate State-level recipients of the support from MOSPI will be designated based on the
Implementation Plan and the Budget and Financing Plan.

                                         INDICATORS OF PROGRESS

8. The MoU will include specific targets, milestones and progress indicators to be used to monitor
progress. The MoU will also set out the frequency with which indicators are to be compiled and the
frequency (twice a year) and               means of reporting,       These will be based on the
indicators/frequency/reporting included in the SSSP or will be included in the MoU by reference to the
SSSP (to avoid duplicative work). During the preparation of the SSSPs States will be supported and
encouraged to develop a fairly short list of indicators that can be readily compiled, and which can be
generated as implementation takes place. Existing reporting mechanisms will be used as far as possible.
The MoU will specify for each indicator the means of verification as well as any other information or
metadata needed to assess its reliability and integrity.




                                                   119
                         DISBURSEMENT FUNDS
                                   OF     AND OTHER ASSISTANCE

9.       Budget transfers to the States will be made in agreed disbursements in line with the achieving of
agreed benchmarks as per indicators, and evidence of progress in implementing the reform process,
typically on an annual basis linked to the budget timetable. Technical support will be provided as agreed
and specified in the MoU.

                                          EXITMECHANISMS

10.     States' participation in the program will be marked formally by the signing of LOPS and MoUs.
While the LOP has no specific termination date it is expected that it will be valid for no more than 12
months in most cases, dependent on satisfactory progress. The MoU will be valid for five years. In both
cases, however, it is expected that there will be a clause allowing for either the State Government or
MOSPI to terminate the agreement in specified circumstances.

11.       If States are unwilling or unable to achieve the benchmarks or implement the reform, then this
will lead to first a review of the agreement and subsequently, if an amended agreement cannot be reached,
its termination.




                                                120
      XIII: CONSULTATIVE AND PARTICIPATORY APPROACH DEVELOPMENT
  ANNEX                                           FOR        OF THE
                           GOVERNMENT   PROGRAM

                                               OVERVIEW

1. States were involved in the preparation of the program through following main mechanisms:
   0 The Tier I compilation of the 35 State reports (Study Reports) on the capacities and needs of the

      State statistical systems and their review and approval and the Synthesis Report which in part
      summarizes the key features of the 35 Study Reports (see Annex VI for more details on the
      Synthesis Report);
   0 The COCSSO meetings of 2007 and 2008;

   0 National Workshops held in Delhi on December 10, 2007 to discuss the program, and in Delhi on

      7 April 2008 to discuss the way forward for the program and the draft of the Letter of
      Participation;
   0 Bilateral discussions between individual States, MOSPI staff and the World Bank preparation

      missions;
      SSSP Sensitization Workshop on January 15, 2009 in Delhi;
   0 Signing of LOPS.



2. As a result of these processes, all States became aware of the program. Twenty two States have
expressed their preparedness to participate in the Program through their signing of the Letter of
Participation and a number of other States have already made direct indications of their readiness to
participate.
                          PARTICIPATION IN THE TIER STUDY REPORTS
                                                       1

3. The preparation of the 35 Study Reports involved substantial interaction between MOSPI, the
national consultants and the States. This included the completion of a structured questionnaire by the
DESs and line departments, direct discussions with DESs (including staff at the district and lower levels),
line departments and senior State officials, consultation about the drafts of the reports, and then their
dissemination to the States (see the Introduction to each of the Study Reports). The States also had the
opportunity to discuss the development and contents of the Synthesis Report at the two National
Workshops referred to in para 1 above.

                                                cocsso
4. Since the Tier I activities commenced two meetings of COCSSO have been held, in April 2007 and
February 2008, as indicated in Annex IV.In both cases ISSP has been on the agenda and there has been
substantive discussion. The role of the DESs in the statistical development process under the Program
was emphasized at both meetings. A recommendation of the 15`hmeeting was to organize "Conferences
of the Ministers-in-Charge" of Statistics about once every 3 years, with a view to according greater
importance to official statistics in the public administration of the State/UT. In addition, the Standing
Committee of COCSSO meets at least twice a year to follow up, as a permanent agenda item, the
implementation of the ISSP. 16thCOCSSO meeting agreed on preparation of a model draft notification
for declaring State DESs as a Nodal Agency.




                                                 121
                                         WORKSHOP
                             ISSP NATIONAL      DECEMBER
                                                       2007

5 . A National Workshop to discuss ISSP was convened by MOSPI in Delhi on December 10, 2007. A
total of 21 States and Union Territories participated, including Directors of DES and other staff. In the
case of a few States the meeting was also attended by the Planning Secretary. The Workshop included
presentations on the Program as a whole, a review of progress with the compilation of the Synthesis
Report on the statistical situation in the States and presentations by States. Five States (Andhra Pradesh,
Maharashtra, Orissa, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand) made presentations, setting out their current work
programs, the constraints they face and what they are expecting from the Program.

6. In summary the main conclusions of the meeting were:
   0   States are well aware of ISSP and are waiting for implementation to begin.
   0   A substantial number of States have already identified constraints that need to be overcome and
       are in the process of developing implementation plans.
   0   States are aware of the need to develop State-specific strategic plans and in several cases some
       preliminary work has already been done.
   0   Manpower is both the most important resource available to State statistical systems, but also
       represents the most severe constraint.
   0   Urgent action is needed to strengthen skills and competencies through training and to help
       statistical staff switch more easily between tasks.

                                          WORKSHOP APRIL
                              ISSP NATIONAL             2008

7. A second National Workshop to discuss ISSP was convened by MOSPI in Delhi on April 7, 2008. A
total of 22 States and Union Territories participated, including Directors of DES and other staff and
representatives from central ministries. The Workshop included a discussion of the ideas for the National
Strategic Statistical Plan, the State Strategic Statistical Plans and the way forward, requirements for the
administration and management of the ISSP at both MOSPI and State levels, the draft Synthesis Report
and the draft Letter of Participation. Several States made presentations on their State situations.

8. The main conclusions of the Workshop were that the States:
      supported the direction of the NSSP
      agreed with the proposed approach to the ISSP including the SSSPs
   0  expressed some concern about the administration and management requirements for the Program
      suggested some modifications to the draft Letter of Participation.

                                       DISCUSSIONS
                                BILATERAL        WITH STATES
Overview

9. Since August 2007, bilateral discussions have been held with seven States, namely: Andhra Pradesh,
Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. These discussions have
involved MOSPI senior management, consultants and members of WE3 preparation missions and have
interacted with the Director and senior staff of the DES as well as State Planning Secretaries in a number
of cases. The discussions have involved gaining an understanding of the State Governments' attitude
towards participation in the program, understanding States' priorities and identifying which States are
expected to participate in the first phase (the five States listed above are among the 22 States that have
already signed LOPS).

10. In these discussions, special attention was given to the States where the World Bank has on-going
development policy operations or where such operations are planned in the coming years. All seven States

                                                 122
contacted so far are from Category I (Statistically more advanced States). This approach allows for (i)
having strong champions of the process involved at the beginning of the program and (ii) a demonstration
effect in that results are expected to be generated more quickly. It is envisaged, however, that further
discussions will be held with some States in Category 11, in particular Bihar and Orissa.

Outcomes of the discussions

1 1. The operation of the statistical system and the level of statistical capacity vary even within the group
of statistically more advanced States, reflecting the level of economic and social development, the
capacity of the State administration, including the actual status of DES, recent institutional changes and
the interest and involvement of the State Government. At the same time, it is clear that in all States there
are systemic and on-going issues that require attention.

12. First of all, the State authorities in all seven States expressed a clear understanding of the role of the
statistical system as the information backbone of a developing economy and demonstrated their
willingness to promote the production and dissemination of reliable, relevant and timely statistical data at
all. The issues faced by the State statistical systems and brought up by the States during the meetings have
much in common, reflecting the conclusions reached in Tier I and consistent with the design of the loan.

13. Key issues raised in the discussions included
      Improving data quality, especially timeliness;
      Promoting greater standardization of indicators
      The need for more effective coordination of statistical activities within States and between States
      and the center
 0    The importance of addressing manpower constraints and the need for training and upgrading of
      qualifications of staff
      Upgrading infrastructure, especially making more effective use of information technology
      Improving the dissemination of official statistics and promoting greater interaction between
      statistical producers and users.
      All the States contacted participated in the ISSP National Workshop held on April 7, 2008 and are
      part of the first phase of States that have signed Letters of Participation.
      SSSP Sensitization Workshop January 2009

14. SSSP Guidelines Sensitization Workshop was held in Delhi as scheduled on 14th January, 2009 with
active participation of several of the StatesKJTs which have signed the Letter of Participation (LOP) in
the ISSP. Salient Features of the discussions:

       The task to take up and complete the critical task of formulation of SSSP by the StatesKJTs,
       utilizing some financial assistance provided to the Government of India by the World Bank
       through the Trust Fund for Statistical Capacity Building (TFSCB).
       The SSSP must be comprehensive, in the sense of taking adequate and complete care of the State
       /UT?S current and expected future requirements of the statistical system at least for the next, say,
       10-15 years. While the National Strategic Statistical Plan (NSSP), which is already in the public
       domain and also shared with the StatesKJTs, can be a useful baseline/background document for the
       purpose, the SSSPs can well go beyond the scope of the vision and strategic frameworks proposed
       in the NSSP, in line with the StateKJT?s own vision.
       The SSSPs have to have the endorsements/ supports at the highest levels possible in the StateKJT.
       Besides the comprehensive situational analysis Reports (March 2007) entitled ?Study Report on
       Identifying Specific Requirements for strengthening of State Statistical Bureaus? which were


                                                  123
       prepared by the MOS&PI, Government of India under Tier-I of the ISSP, with the active
       involvement and participation of the StatesLJTs, those of them participating in the project may
       also like to utilize, as optimally as possible, for the purpose the Synthesis Report (April 2008)
       based thereon as also the StateLJT-specific Summary Reports and the detailed SSSP Guidelines
       (December 30,2008)which have been formulated by the Government of India.
       It is of paramount importance to ensure that one is realistic in setting his ambitions in terms of
       their goal-setting and expectations from the project. The SSSPs should be so designed and so
       implemented as to be focused primarily on the accomplishment of the envisaged outputs and
       outcomes from the project.
       All required decisions on various aspects of the task of the SSSP preparation are based on an
       extensive, conscious and systematic process of stake-holders' consultations.
       Wherever it is the case that manpower availability related issues are a major factoddeterminant,
       the concerned StatesKJTs would have to come out upfront and spell-out/articulate clearly the
       specific strategiedbroad strategic options which they intend to draw upon for dealing appropriately
       and effectively with that issue, in consonance with the relevant provisions of the LOP.
       The designated Nodal Agency for the project must be adequately supported/facilitated and
       empowered to deliver on their mandated functions effectively and efficiently.
       The SSSPs need to be very detailed and extensively operational oriented and operational level
       documents and, therefore, would have to be designed and developed in such a manner as to make
       it easy and quick to migrate from the level of the SSSP to the next level required viz. that of, MoU,
       which each participating StateNT would eventually have to enter into with the Government of
       India (GOI) on an individual viz. case specific basis.
       Some indicative suggestiondguidelines were discussed for consideration by the StatesLJTs
       participating in the ISSP, in regard to identification and short-listing of consultants, if any, which
       they may wish to engage for accomplishing the task of preparation of SSSPs, as required.

State high-level Steering Committees

15. One of the pre requisites for the participation of StatesLJTs in the ISSP given under the LOP is to
establish a high-level Steering Committee for the project under the Chairpersonship of the Chief
Secretary, having a representative of MOSPI, Government of India as one of the members therein.
Twenty two States have signed Letter of Participation with the commitment to establish the steering
committees in the respective States. Six States namely- Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka,
Kerala, Orissa and Tamil Nadu have constituted the steering committees for the implementation of ISSP.




                                                 124
                XIV: GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY
            ANNEX            AND                PLAN ( G M P )
                                           ACTION

                                                   OVERVIEW

1.       In line with policy all new World Bank lending operations in India since the beginning of
FY2007 require a Governance and Accountability Action Plan (GAAP) to address both core governance
and anti-corruption concerns as well as loan specific risks. These measures build on and complement the
Government's own efforts. In general, the India Statistical Strengthening Program is itself an initiative to
improve the accountability and transparency of Government, especially at the State level. The
compilation and public dissemination of good quality and objective statistics is an important mechanism
for providing information about the results of Government policies and programs. Nevertheless it is also
important that the program as a whole complies with requirements to account for the resources used, to
ensure transparency in its operations and to be responsive to concerns from stakeholders.

                                          GOVERNANCE
                                                   STRUCTURE

2.       At the national level, MOSPI has established an ISSP high-level Steering Committee to review
and monitor the implementation of the ISSP on a regular basis. The Committee includes representation
from MOSPI senior management, the Planning Commission and the Department of Economic Affairs; the
Committee can co-opt other experts as members as necessary. In addition, the National Statistical
Commission, as the apex body of the whole national statistical system, will have an important oversight
role to play in the light of its responsibilities for evolving (i) national policies and priorities relating to the
statistical system, (ii) national strategies for collection, tabulation and dissemination of core statistics, (iii)
national strategies for human resource development on official statistics, and (iv) measures for effective
coordination with State Governments, and other responsibilities.

3.       At the State level, as required under the Letter of Participation, there will be a high-level State
Steering Committee for the ISSP in each participating State; it will be under the Chairmanship of the
Chief Secretary with a representative from MOSPI; this Committee is to be empowered to issue necessary
directions to all participating departments/agencies of the State concerned with statistical matters. It is
expected that in addition to this policy level Committee States will establish, if not already in existence, a
State Statistics Council or similar which would be the forum in which the widest consultation on ISSP
(and other statistical matters) would take place among all stakeholders at the State level (producers, users
both Government and outside Government, academics and others). Some States may have a State
Authority which decides on and validates all statistical activities; it may be a Council of Ministers, Chief
Secretary or Minister in Charge of Statistics or other authority. If such a State authority operates for
statistical matters its relationship with the Steering Committee on the ISSP and the Statistics Council on
ISSP matters is expected to be determined by the State Government.

             DISCLOSURE TRANSPARENCY OF PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
                      AND

4.,     While a substantial amount of information on the Program is expected to be available under
India's Right to Information Law, each participating State will be encouraged and supported to be more
proactive in providing information not only about statistical products and services, but also about the
implementation of the Program itself. Each participating State will be encouraged to establish or develop
a web-site where regular information about the Program will be made available (see paragraph 122 in the
main text). The web-site is expected to include:
       Details of contracts and requests for bids to supply goods and services
       Information about outputs and outcomes achieved, both in terms of the specific indicators being
       used to monitor progress as well as the actual outputs provided and related metadata
       Details of future plans, including annual work plans and targets

                                                     125
         Minutes and reports of meetings
         Progress on the ISSP
         Other reports on the State statistical system

                                       PROMOTING ACCOUNTABILITY

5.        Accountability mechanisms built into the design of the Program include:
     0   Regular consultation between data providers and users
     0   Mechanisms to obtain feedback on the level of user satisfaction with statistical services and
         products
         The preparation, submission and publication of an annual report on the activities of the State
         statistical system
         Establishment of a mechanism, for example through the web-site for complaints to be made and
         followed up.




                                                    126
                             XV: IMF PUBLIC
                         ANNEX                     NOTICE
                                          INFORMATION

I N F Executive Board Concltrdes 2 0 0 9 Article I V Consrr Itation with
India
Public Infsi-matian Natrea (PIIN) No. lO!lS
 e b i u a i y 4, 2D10
 public InJorniation ~ 0 t i - s (PINS) Form part of the IMPSefforts to promote
 transctarencv of She IMF's views and analysis of economic develowrtents and
 the cansent of the! country (or MU      es) cancE?rned, PINS are issued after Ex
 dissussions of Article N consultations with member muntries, af its surveillance of
 ~ e v ~ l o ~ ~ ethe regional levei, af past-program monitoring, and of ex post
                at n t s
 assessments of member cpuntries with longer-term program engagements. P l N s are aha
 issued after Executive m a r d discussions of aeneral mliw matters, unless otherwise
 decided by the Executive Board 1 n a particular case.
 On January 25, 2010, the Executive Board of t he Intematiiolnal Monetary Fund [EMF)
 concluded t h e Article N cansukation with India.&
 Backgruuncl
                     s
 India's economy I one of the first tn the world to m o v e r after the global crisis. Pmmpt
fiscal and monetary easing, combined with the fiscal stimulus already in the pipeline and
the return o f nsk appetite in financial markets, have brought growth close to pre-crisis
 levells. Leading indicators suggest the output gap will continue to close, Capital inflows are
 back o n the rise, and financial markets have regained most of the lost ground.
Growth is prqected to rise from 6% percent in 2009JlQ(Apnl-March) to 8 percent the
following year. Agriculture is likely t o contract by about 1 percent in 2~109/10 to the
                                                                                    due
droerg ht, but nonagricultural GDP growth is expected to gathw momentum. Pnvate
consumption would benefit from better employment prospects and less uncertainty, and
investment would be boosted by robust corporate pmfits, rising business confidence, and
favorable financing conditions. w i t h India's long-term prospects remaining strong and
pnvate sector balance sheets sound, we expect growth to tre back at potential i n 201Q/ll
even if advanced economies grow below trend.
Near-term risks are broadly balanced. On the upside, an acceleration o f reforms and
caprtal infliows coukl spur investment. On the downside, the main risks are eievated
inflation and financing constraints arising from-among other things-the fiscal deficit,
which could put breaks o n the recovery. Taif risks include asset price hubbies and a sudden
stap m capital inflaws caused by turnail tn glaba! financial markets,
India's medium-term growth prospects remain bright. India was: not at the center of the
global C ~ S I Sand growth is well balanced and niainly relrant on domestic dnvers. Risks to
                                                             n
th!s favorable outlook stern primarily from difficulties r implementing productivity-
enhancing reforms and continued supply bottlenecks,
Executive Board Assessnrent
Executive Directors congratulated the authorities on their strang record of sound
macroeconomic policies and decisive actions feading t o India's early and vigorous recovery
fi-om the global crisis. Directors noted t h a t India's rapid recovery has brought fiscal and
monetary palicy trade-offs t o a head earlier than in other countries. Longer-term priorities
are financial sector reforms to facilitate infrastructure investment, and fiscal consolidation.
Drrectars were reassured by the authorities' vigilant monitoring and action plans t o address
the challenges ahead.
Direetof-s commended the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for starting the first phase of exit
from monetaw accommodation and generally cvnsidered that conditions are flpe for a
pmgrr;ssive normalization of the monetary stance. n7ey nated that this will require fine
judgments by the KBI, and favored a gradual approach t;o ensure the recovery reaches its
full potential. Given long transmission Bags and the low policy rates, most Directors advised
a timely start of the withdrawal of monetary stimulus, which would help anchor inflation
expeetations and soften the impact on long-term interest rates. More extended guidance




                                              127
from the RBI on future inflation may also help in this regard.
Directors recognized the challenges the authorities face in managing capital inflows, and
welcomed their intention to continue to employ a range of measures. Most Directors
considered that nupee appreciation would help contain inflation and manage capital inflows,
although a few Directors argued for caution in this area. Sterilized intervention could help
reduce excessive exchange rate volatitity, provided it does not generate further inflows.
Directors also supported the RBI's approach t o use prudential measures in case asset
bubbles were to develop. Given the need to develop India's financial markets, several
Directors advised a tightening of capital controls only as a last resort.
Directors noted t h a t Indials financial system has weathered the global crisis well. They
supported the initiatives to further strengthen the capita! of public banks and financial
regulation, and the higher provisioning requirements recently introduced. While
appreciating India's self-assessment of the financial sector, they noted that the assessment
of financial stability could be further strengthened via multifactor stress tests and an
independent evaluation of compliance with international standards. Directors also
encouraged the authorities to improve mechanisms for dealing with distressed assets and
the insolvency framework.
Directors concurred that infrastructBre investment is a priority and encouraged the
authorities to maintain the momentum of refoms t o ensure that the financial system will
provide adequate funding. They stressed the importance of developing a vibrant mrporate
bond market and reforms that would foster greater participation by pension funds and the
insurance sector in funding infrastructure. Several Directors a i m considered that further
opening the local debt market to foreign investors could help in enhancing liquid@. A few
other Directors advised a more cautious approach in view of the volatility and
vulnerabilities associated with capital flows. Diredors considered that public institutions
have an important role t o play in establishing the overall framework for infrastructure
financing and in filling market gaps, while carefully managing risks to the public sector.
Directors welcomed the authorities# announcement to lower the deficit starting from the
next budget. With the recovery becoming entrenched and given India's high d&t, they
encouraged the authorities to lay out a concrete strategy F r reducing debt through durable
                                                              o
reforms, which would boost credibility and foster growth. Most Directors considered that
anchoring India's medium-term fiscal framework with a debt target would be helpful.
Directors looked forward to the introduction of the Goods and Sewices Tax and the new
Direct Tax Code. They encouraged the authorities to phase out regressive subsidies and
introduce market-based pricing for petroleum products. Over time, the subsidies on
products consumed predominantly by the poor should be replaced with targeted support.
Directors welcomed the government's focus on raising the quality of public spending and
service delivery, and the a nnouncernents regarding privatization.




                                             128
                         India: Selected Ecmomic Irrdicratoes, 200S]06-2010/11




                                            3.5          9.7       9.0       G.7      G.7      0.0

                                            3.2         31.5       8.5       P-7
                                                                             L. 1      ..*      ...

                                            4.4           5.4      4.7       a 3       .
                                                                                      31       G,4


                                            4.1           6.7      7.7       0.8       .
                                                                                      81       5.5

                                            4.4          6.7       6.2        .
                                                                             91      11.:      8,8


Sa\ing ard iriv&mer+t (perm: of
GDP)
         Ctosssaving 3                     31.3         25.8      57.6      37.4     $7.5     38.2

    *    GIWS intestme&        3           35.5         26.9      59.1     4 2 .O    59.4     40.4
Fiscal posibm (pearart of GDP) 31

    *    Central government        defd    -4.6         -4,4      -3.3      -8.0     -/.b     -b.L

    e    Geneial govetnrnent & f i t       -7.2         -6.5      4.7      -11.0    -11.2     -9.4

         Genera! gervernmmt debt 4/        84.0         EO .fi    78.3     782       81.7    81.2

Honev a d credit 171ry permit
change, end-perioc] 5/
         BCDad m n c y                     21.2         r1.5      20.9     18.8      18.7

   *                         &
         Credn tc commercial 5
                             r             jL.2         6b.b      LV.9     1/.U      11.1

Financal ndicators {percent end-
pelwdl 5;
   *     31 day kcmuty bill yiclld          5.1
         IO-year government bond            /.b
         yield

   *     S h k maket (v/u percent          73.7         15.9      19.7    -37.9      86.2
         change, end-p;nod)
E x k m a l b a d e 6J
         Merchandw ecpatts (US$           105.2      128.9       166.2     5.
                                                                          15:       145.8    178,O
         LzlIliurQ)

         y / f pa-cznt c k n c e           23.4         2.6       28.9      5.4     -16.7    22,1




                                                  I29
            etzhandise imparts {US$         157.1    190.7        257.8       294.6       259.0      310.8
          billions)
     +    y/y percent change                 32.1       14
                                                       2.          35.2        14.3        -12.1      20.0

     +    Net ail impmts (US$billions)       32.3       ..
                                                       363         54.8        62.7         51.6      59.2

hhRCX? Qf      pa)Wt7ent (US$billions)

     e    Cur-rent account biance            -.
                                              99       -9.6       -17.0       -29.8        -24.0     -29.5
(In percent of GDP)                          -1.2      -1.0        -1.5         -1.6        -1.9      -2.1

     +    Foreign direct investment,           .
                                              30          7.7      15.4        17.5         15.8      17.4
          net
     +                  r
          b r t f o i b ~ m r ~ w n t net
                                      ,      12.5         7.1      29.6       -14,O         25.8      19.8
          (equity and de&]

     +    Overall balance                    15.1      36.6        92.2       -20.1         33.2      27.2

Externat indicators

     +    Gross ieserves (in billions of    151.6    299.2        309.7       252.0       300.7      327.9
          U.S. dollars, end-period)
(In months o impotas) 7/
           f                                  7.7         7.7      10.7          9,7         9.8       9.6

     +    External debt (petcent of          17.5      18.8        19.2         1.
                                                                                 95          9:
                                                                                            1.        1.
                                                                                                       98
          GDP, end-pmnsod)
Of w h d x short-teim debt 8/                  .
                                              33          3.8        .
                                                                    72           7.5          .
                                                                                             74        81
                                                                                                        .

     +    Raho of gross t-iwerves to           .
                                              56          5-7       3.7          2.9         3.2       2.9
          short-term debt (end-penod)
          8f
     rn   Gi DSS rmecves to broad            24.8      26.1        31.5        26.8           ...       I..



          money (percent; end-penod)
     rn   Debt s e ~ y ~ c e 9/
                         rabo                10.1         4.9       5.3          5.4         5.5       6.1

     +    Real efFectrve exchange fate
(yly pwcent changf, perid average            4.5       -2.2         8.2         -7. 1          ..        ...
F annuaf data)
 w

     e    Excharrge rate (rupeelUS$.,       44.6      43.5         40.1        50.7         46.4         ...
          md-period) 5/
Memo! andurn item [in percent of
GDP)
Subady related bond issuance 10/              05
                                               .          1.0       0.6          1.8          .
                                                                                             03        0.4



Sources: Data prvlvided by the Indian authontim; E I C Data Company Ltd; &loombag LP.; W l         wd
Oevd~~mmt       Indimtors; and IMF staff estimates and piojections.
   Data are for. Apnl-March fiscal years.
2` DiReis from offioal data, calculated with gross investment and a r r e n t account, Glass investment
i d u d e s ermm and omissions.
'! Otrestrnent proceeds heated as below-the-line financing. Subsidy related bwld issuance included rn btaf
expendtture and in the batan-.
4' Indudes combined domestic fiabifittes of the center and the states, tncfusive of MS5 bonds, and
sowreign external debt at year-md exchange iates.
   For 2009/10, of November 2009.
                  a5
   an balance of payments basis.
7i Imports of goods and swims projected over the foliowing twelve months.




                                                    130
 '' Short-tarn debt on residuai rnaturrty basis, rndudtng estimated sftot%-termNRI deposits on residual
 maturity basis.
 '!En percent of cumnt a m u n t receipts excluding gtantr;.
 I o I Issued by the wnh-al government to FCI, the stateowned oii r   ~      n            ~
                                                                                    ~ mmpanies,~and d     ~      s   ~   ~
 fm%limer companies as compensation for losen, incurred fiarn the provisian of subsidies.

A Under Attick   I of the EMF8 Articdes od Agreement, the IMF k i d s bilateral dPscusstons with members,
                 d
                 '
usually every year-, A staff team visits the aruntry, cone& economic and financial i n f o i m k n , and
dacuses with officials the countty's economic developments a d policies. On return to headquatteis, the
staff piapat-es a report, which forms the b i t for dimusston by the Executive Board. A t the codusion of
khe discussion, the Managing Director,as Chait-manof the Board, summnzm the vim%of E x h v e
Dit-rctors, and this summaty is transmitted to the ccunby's authorities. An explanahon of any qualiifiets
used in surnrnings up can be found here: h ~ : / / w w w , i m f . w n / e x ~ n ~ / ~ r nhbn. ~ a l ~ ~ ~ ~ .
                                                                                                     ~ a




                                                  131
                  XVI: WORLD BANK
              ANNEX              PORTFOLIO AND PROGRAM INDICATORS


                Selected Indicators of Bank Portfolio Performance and Management

                                     As of End February 2010



 Indicator                                                2007       2008       2009      2010
 Portfolio Assessment
 Number of Projects Under Implementation       'a              67          59        61        67
 Average Implementation Period(years) / b                     3.6         3.7       3.8       3.5
 Percent of Problem Projects by Number                       10.4        22.0       5.0      13.0
 Percent of Problem Projects by Amount                       14.7        21.8       4.0      15.0
 Percent of Projects at risk by Number 'a,'d                 11.9        23.7       5.0      15.0
 Percent of Projects at Risk by Amount 'a"d                  17.9        23.2      14.0      18.0
 Disbursement Ratio(%) as of February 20 10         le       21.7        18.3      24.3      17.4
 Portfolio Management
 CPPR during the year(yes/no)
 Supervision Resources(tota1 US$)
 Average Supervision(US$/project)

 Memorandum Item                                                 Since FY80        Last Five FYs
 Projects Evaluated by OED by Number                                    32 1                     30
 Projects Evaluated by OED by Amt(US$ millions)                     42,198.8               5,521.4
 % of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Number                              25.9                  13.3
 % of OED Projects Rated U or HU by Amt.                               23.9                   11.7

/a As shown in the Annual and Monthly Reports on the Portfolio Performance
/b Average age of projects in the Bank's Country portfolio
/c Percent of projects rated U or HU on development objectives(D0) and/or implementation
progress(IP)
/d As defined under the Portfolio Improvement Program
/e Ratio of disbursements during the year to the undisbursed balance of the Bank's portfolio at the be-
ginning of the year, Investment projects only
* All indicators are for projects active in the Portfolio, with the exception of Disbursement Ratio, which
includes all active projects as well as projects which exited during the fiscal year.




                                                    132
                                             VII: INDIA AT A GLANCE
                                         ANNEX

                                                                         Lower-
                                                            Sad?        rnidde-
                                                              Asia      inoocllc

                                                  1.1400     1.543        3.702
                                                    1040        gee       2.a-8

                                                                                                                 T
                                                  1,1867     1 .Ea2       7,682


                                                     14           1.5       9.2
                                                     18          22         16



                                                      2Q          30         41
                                                      84          85         a
                                                      52          54         46
                                                      44          41         28
                                                      e9          87         88
                                                      sa          63         83
                                                     113         108        108
                                                     115         ltt         r
                                                                            12
                                                     111         104        10B


                                                    4958      2007        2W8          Edoratks'
                                                   416 3    1.176 9     1.15a.2
                                                    226        387         397
                                                    112        212         227                               Trade
                                                    21 0       352         343
                                                    228        381         37 e
                                            29
                                           -.       -1 0         -1 5      -2 %
                                            1.o      12           06        06
                                           21.0     23 7         17 4      19 9
                                           28.8     205          13 0       90
                                                                           175
                                                                           58.5

                                                    2007     2008       2008-12

                                                     91           8i        7<3
                                                     76           47        53
                                                     75          12 B       56


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                           wee      mn       2w7
(7%   af GOF)                                                                          s
                                                                                       2
Agncumm                                    305      260       f% 1         17 5        2p
lndusby                                    262      281       2Q5          28.8        IS
      ManWnng                              162      155       18 3         15.8        in
Servrcer                                   434      479       524          537         0
                                                                                   I   U
                                                                                       U    T   T   :   :   ::       :   ::   I
HeusehW final carsumpbon expendltve        658      867       547
General gov"tnd conrumprnn expendtlure     120      123       10 1
Impark o-
        f      and SUVKICS                  75      125       24 7

                                         isasas   199a-w     2w7

                                            34       27           48
                                            U1       76           81
                                            $6       72           82
                                            70       89          10.9
                                            56       BO           60
                                            49       45           54       20 2
                                            84      128          f5 u      10.7
                                           138      161           54       17.9




                                                           133
                                                                                                                                                           India


                                                                                                                                                                 I
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                             1988       1998           2007     2008        Inflation (%)




                                                                                                                                                                 I
Domestic prices
                                                                                            10
(% change)                                                                                       T

                                                                                            8
Consumer prices                               11.2       13.1           6.2       8.0
                                                                                            0
Implicit GDP deflator                          8.2        8.0           4.9       6.2
                                                                                            4
Government finance                                                                          2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                                                                          ' I
                                                                                        I                                                                        I
                                                                                        I o '
Current revenue                               19.0       17.1          21.9      20.9
                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                        03        04        05         OB            07
Current budget balance                        -2.8       -5.2          -3.2      -7.6
Overall surpiusldeficit                          ..      -8.7          -6.2      -9.8
                                                                                                                 GOP deflator       - - CPI
                                                                                                                                     0                      OB




                                                                                                                                                                 I
TRADE
                                             1988       1998           2007     2008        Export and Import levels (US$ mlll.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         14,257    33,219      159,007     190,000       350,000 T
  Tea                                          435     1,038        1,703                   300,000
  Iron                                         825       893        9,005                   250.000
  Manufactures                              10,110    25,792      101,099     108,281       200.000
Total imports (ciQ                          23,618    47,544      257,789     296,614       150,000
  Food                                       1,304     2,524        4,575                   100,000
  Fuel and energy                            3,009     6,399       79,641                    50,000




                                                                                                                                                                 I
  Capital goods                              4,603    10,064       58,393      71,237             0

Export price index (2000=100j                                           152      161                    02      03     04         05        OB        07

Import price index (2000=100)                                           162      182                         .Expons             .Imports
                                                                                                                                                            OB
Terms of trade (2000=100)                                                93       89

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                             1988       1998           2007     2008
                                                                                            Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services               18,210     47,484     256,240     276,408
Imports of goods and services               26,842     58,565     310,301     345,993
Resource balance                            -8,632    -1 1,081    -54,061     -69,585
Net income                                  -2,519    -3,544       -4,917      -4,511
Net current transfers                        2,652    10,280       41,944      44,279
Current account balance                     -8,499     4,345       -17,273    -30,049
Financing items (net)                        7,495      8,174     109,437       9,969
Changes in net reserves                      1,004     -3,829     -92,164      20,080
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       4,802    32,490      309,287     276,300
Conversion rate (DDEC, locaVUS$)              14.5      42.1         40.1        45.9

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                             1988       1998           2007     2008        Composltlon of 2008 debt (US$ mlll.)
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        60,477    97,637      220,956     221,633
  IBRD                                       5,590     7,990        7,187       8,012                                   A: 8.012
  IDA                                       12,019    18,562       26,238      25,917
Total debt service                           5,945    12,084       40,718      32,480
  IBRD                                         777     1,378          743         842
  IDA                                          179       423          937       1,081
Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                              700       490
  Official creditors                         2,645       980        1,817       1,652
  Private creditors                          5,741     3,175       25,931     -22,969
  Foreign direct investment (net inflows)       91     2,635
  Porlfolio equity (net inflows)                 0      -601
                                                                                                         113,247
World Bank program
 Commitments
 Disbursements
                                            2,645
                                            2,472
                                                        1,543
                                                        1,401
                                                                    2,154
                                                                    1,966
                                                                                5,663
                                                                                1,965
                                                                                             A - ISRD                                            -
                                                                                                                                            E Bilateral
                                                                                             B - IDA         D - Other multilateral         F - Private
 Principal repayments                         383       1,130       1,106       1,429            -
                                                                                             C IMF                                          G - Short-term
 Net flows                                  2,088         271         859         536
 Interest payments                            572         671         574         495
 Net transfers                              1,516        -400         286          42




                                                                 134
                                           XVIII: KEYSOCIAL
                                       ANNEX              INDICATORS
                                                                     Latest s i n g l e y e a r              S a m e r e g l o n l i n c o m e group
                                                                                                                                               Lower-
                                                                                                                      South                   mlddle-
                                                                   198046        1990-96      200147                     ASll                 Income
 POPULATION
 Total population. mid-year (millions)                               765.1          932.2     1,123.3                 1,520.4              3,437.1
   Growth rate (% annual average forpeliod)                            2.1            1.9         1.4                     1.6                  1.1
 Urban population (% of population)                                   24.3           26.6        29.3                    29.2                 41.7
 Total fertility rata (births per woman)                               4.4            3.4         2.6                     2.8                  2.3

 POVERTY'
 (% of population)
 National haadcount index                                                            36.0         27.6
   Urban headcount index                                                             32.4         26.7
   Rural headcount index                                                             37.3         28.3

 INCOME
 GNi per capita (US$)                                                  300            380         950                     880                 1,887
 Consumer price Index (2000=100)                                        28             70         138                     140                   144
 Food price index (2000=100)

INCOMElCONSUMPTiON DiSTRiBUTiON
Share of income or consumption
Gini inde?                                                                               ..       34.9
  Lowest quintiie (YO income or consumption)
                     of                                                                  ..        9.3
  Highest quintiie (% of income or consumption)                                          ..       27.3

SOCIAL INDiCATORS

Public expendltun'
  Health (% of GDP)                                                                      ..        4.9                     0.9                  2.0
  Education (% of GNI)                                                                   ..       21.8                     2.7                  4.7
  Social security and welfare (% of GDP)                                                 ..        2.6

Net primary sohool enrollment r8b
(% of age group)
   Total                                                                                           89                      85                    90
     Male                                                                                          90                      86                    91
     Famala                                                                                        87                      83                    90

Acce8s to an Improved water source
(% of population)
  Total                                                                                77          89                      81                    88
    Urban                                                                              92          96                      94                    98
    Rural                                                                              71          86                      84                    83

Immunization rate
(% of children ages 72-23 months)
  Measles                                                                1             72          59                      65                    77
  DPT                                                                   18             71          55                      64                    75
Chiid malnutrition (% under 5 years)                                                               44                      41                    25

Life expectancy at birth
(years)
  Total                                                                 57             61          64                      64                    69
    Male                                                                57             61          63                      63                    67
    Female                                                              57             62          66                      66                    71

Morhilty
   Infant (per 1.000 live births)                                      97              74          57                      62                    41
   Under 5 (per 1.000 live births)'                                   137             102          74                      83                    54
   Adult (15-59)
      Mala (per 1.000 population)                                     261            236          260                     251                  202
      Female (per 1,000 population)                                   279            24 1         168                     173                  128
   Maternal (per 100,000 live births)'                                                            301                     500                  300
Births attended by skilled health staff (%)                                            34          47                      41                   69

CAS Annex 86. This table was produced from the CMU LDB system unless stated otherwise.                                                     11/12/08
Note: 0 or 0.0 means zaro or lass than half the unit shown. Net enrollment rate: break in series between 1997 and 1998 due to
change from ISCED76 to ISCED97. Immunization: refen to children ages 12-23 months who received vaccinations before one
year of age or at any time before the s u ~ e y .
1: Source: Poverty Estimates for 2004-05. New Dalhi,Goi, Press Information Bureau. March 2007
2: At 93-94 Real Price: Source: Calculated from Unit levai data: NSS 61st Round (2004-05), Schedule 1




                                                                135
                           XIX: MACROECONOMIC
                       ANNEX              INDICATORS AND OUTLOOK

                               ~~




                                                                            Acme1                   E stmate              Prq ected
                            Indicator                        2005          2006 1007        3008     1009      2310     2011 2012       2313
hatiooal accounts (85      9'0 of GDY)
Grosr domotn: piaduct'                                        100.0        100.0    100.0 100.0       100.0    100.0 100.0 100.0         100.0
  Apriculturc                                                  IS s         1S1      1SO     172       170      1 5 s 1 5 1 144           13%
  hdustiy                                                      28.2         19.0     29.1    28.4      25.3     28.3 28.8 29.0           29.4
  Senlces                                                      53.0         52.9     52.9    54.4      54.9     55.8 56.1 56.6           56.5
Total Consirniption                                            68.4         67.1     66.5    69.8      69.6     70.6     69.4   68.1      65.3
Gross domestic fixed invertinuit                               30.4         51.4     33.0    33.0      32.6     33.9     34.5   35.3      37.3
 Go>ci iuiiciit iiivcrtiiiuit                                        7.3     8.0      8.1     8.6       8.2      8.6      8.9    9.0       91
 Piivate in>-ettiiieiit                                        23.1         :3.4     24.9    24.1      24.5     25.3     25.6   26.3      38.2

Exports (GNFs)b                                               19.2          21.3    10.6     23.5      19.8     19.3     18.6   18.1      19.3
Iniports (GNFS)                                               21.9          24.4    24.7     29.0      24.3     25.C     23.7   22.6      23.5
Givsr douicstlc. savings                                      31.6          J3.9     33.5    30.2      30.4     29.1     30.6   31.9      31.1
&or% nationai savings'                                        33.8          3.5.4    36.5    33.4      33.9     32.7     33.4   34.3      36.4
Mcmorandzirn )tenis
GIOSSdoinestlc prxluct                                       537.2         939.2 1232.8 1214.2 1296.1 1511.2 1837.9 2104.1              1403.4
(US%billion at ciment prices)
GNI ycr capita (US$. Atlas uictliud)                         810.0         8?0.0 990.0 1080.0 1170.0 1240.C 1420.0 1670.0               1920.0
R ~ A
    aunlLrai
           ylubiiil    c5 (sb. bdiClIi4Cd rILlll
                                               03 p11~c5;l
 Gr-s doiiiestic prochicr at niwket prices                       9.3         9.4      9.6     5.1       6.8      8.5      9.0    8.5       8.5
 cirojs Doniestic it icon^                                       9.6         9.5      9.6     5.2       7,7      8.1      9.0    5.4       8.9
Real annual per capita grui~th later (Ob. caldated from 00 prtccs)
 Cirois clomeitic proctuct at nniket pnces                     7.8           7.5,     8d      s.7       5.3      7.L      75     7.0       7.cl
 Total cmwniptim                                               73            53       72      99        5s       3'       20     1s       -1%
 Piirate consuuiption                                          74            S.9      7.0     8.9       5.3      3.7      1.5    0.8      -4.5
Balance of P a p e o t r (Z'SS billions)
 Exports IGNFST                                               162.8 202.7 256.2 376.4                 141.8  291.1 341.7 399.7 463.5
     Merchandise FOB                                          lo? 1 128.9 166.2 175.2                 161.8  191.8 223.0 158.5     295.1
 I l l l p T 5 (GxFs)b                                        191 I 2tS.O 310.3 346.0                 319.1  377.5 135.2 -198.1 565.1
     Merchandise FOB                                          157 1 190.7 257.8 294.6                 170.1  323.4 374.2 429.5 490.7
 Resoiuce balance                                            -28 73 -32.31 -54.06 -69.59             -77.11 -86.34 -93.51 -98.38 -101.94
 Net currenr transfers                                         24 7   50.1   41.9 44.3                 S1.1 63.3 64.6 68.4          71.5
 Cwrtnt accotuit belaice                                      -10 1   -9.8 -17.3 -30.0                -30.9 -35.9 4 2 . 1 -45.4    48.1
 Net privnre fwerpn cfiieet rnvtCtiiietit                        30          7.7     15.4    17.5      260      2X I:    27.0   26.0      37.12
 Long-tern kmi5 (net)                                            42         17.9    24.7     10.8       5.3      3.2     20,s   30.4      31.2
  Official                                                       14          1.4     1.8      2.7       4.Y      S.S      1.S     1.6      1.1
  i
  P wate                                                         2s         1s.4    12.9      s.l       0.4     -0.1     19.5   2S.S      39.5
 Other capital (net mcl m s 6:~nmtisim)
                         a                                     17.9         10.9     69.3   -18.3      24.6     19.3     21.1    20.1     21.0
 Chmge 111 Kjtn:s d                                           -15 1        -56.6    -92.2    10.1     -25.0    -24.5    -26.8   -31.1    41.1
Memorandm items
Keso~uce   balance ('"0 of GLW)                                 -.7
                                                               - J          4.0      -4.1    -5.4      -4.5     -5.7     -5.1    -4.5     -4.2
Real aiuiirai poudi la-as ( 1 2 0 0 picas)
 Meiclindtse expits (FOB)                                     35.1          :3.3     8.2     12.6      -1.2     15.3     14.8   14.8      12 7
 hlerchatldise niq~orts  (CIF)                                32.2          19.9    10.5      6.4      12.5     1S.S     14.1   13.2      143




                                                             136
?
                                                 India - Key Economic Indicators
                                                           (Continued)

                                                                              Actual                       Estmate                          Projected
                               Inkator                     ' 2005       '   2006     2007     '   2008     ' 2009      '   2010       '   2011     2012       '   2013
                                                          v
Public firunce (as % of GDP at markel prices)'
 Current revenues                                                19.7         20 0     21.1         19.9       185           19.1           19.1     19.4           20.1
    Cumnt txpendrturts                                           24.2         235      23.5         213        163           74.7            3
                                                                                                                                            23       22.5           21.8
    Cumtat account s q h s (+) or d&t    (-)                     11.6         -3.5     -2.4         -7.4       -7.8          -5.6           4.2       -3.1          -1.7
    Capital e x p m h e                                           2.2          1.9      2.7          ld         1.7           2.9            3.2       3.5           3.8
    Forngn flnatBang                                              1.1          02       0.2          0.2        03            02             03       0.4            03

Monetary indicators
    M 2 GDP                                                      73.6         11.4     81.2         85 8       87.9          89.3           90.1     90.9           90.9
    Groxih of bf2 (%I                                            21.2         21.5     21.2         19.0       133           19.1           16.6     15.0           12.8
    Pnvate sector a t & %growth 2                                97.1         S6.6     86.2         54.7       44.9           64
                                                                                                                             6.             613      68.1           68.4
    total creblt growth $b)

Price indices( YROO 5100)
 Mefchandtse export pnce mdcx                                   175.7        161 6    187.9        199.4       lSS.4        116.6          178.9     180.6         183.0
 Merchandtsc unpott pnce m d a                                  131.7        133.4    163.2        1764        1603         143.8          145.7     1473          148.1
 Mwchanlse terms oftrade mdex                                   133 3        121 2    115.1        113 0       117.6        122 9          122.8     122 2         123.6
 Real exchange a t e (uSSlCUy                                   1024          98.5     MS
                                                                                      1 .           94 4        91.3              -              -        -              -
    Real mterest rates
    Consumerpnce mdex (%change)                                   42           6.4      62           9.1        113           8.0            6.0       5 .O          40
                                                                                                                                                                      .
    GDP deflator (%o change)                                      6.7          56       5.3          1.2         3.6          s.0            6.0       5 .O          4.0



'a. GDP at factor C05t
b "GNTS" denotes "goods andnonfactor sewices
c Includes net unreqtittd *sfm     excfudmg ofEcia! capnal grants.
6 Includes use cfMFresourcea.
e Consohdated central govrmment
f " L N " denotes "local c m c y wnts '' . maease in USMCU denotes appreciation
                                         h




                                                                 137
