*                ~~~~~C~ A2$3r- e#&)/'
Do_met of
Tle World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Rept No. P-6339-GUI
REPORT AND RECOXMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOIPMET ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 16.3 MIlION (US$23 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GUIM
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR OPERATION
AUGUST 31, 1994
This docment has a restricted d_stbution and may be used by recpen only in dte perfouce of
their official daties Its conents may not otherwise be disclosed whout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQU1VALTS
Current Una    =   Guiman Franc (GF)
US$1   =   GF953
GFI   =    USS0.001
GF100Q    =   US$1.05
MEASURFS
Im    =    1.09 yd
le    =        10.76 sq A
lkm2 = 0.38 sq mi
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BCRG              anue Centrale de Ia R6publique de Guinde
BIAG            Banque lntewnationale pour I'Afrique en Guin6e
BIAO            Banque nternationale pour I'Afrique de l'Oest
BICIGUI         Banque Internationale pour le Commerc et lindustrie en Guinde
BID            Banque Isamiqe de D6ve1oppenent
BIG             Banque slamque de Guin6e
BNP             Bque Nadonale de Paris
BPMG            Banque Populaire MarocoGuineenne
CAS             County Assistance Stategy
CCIAG           Chambre de Ccmmerce, Industie et Agriculture
CECC            Caisses dpgne et de Cr6dit de Conakry
CFI             Caise F:naaiso de DMveloppement
CiD'             Canadian Intational Deveopmeat Agency
CICM            Centre International de Cr6dit Muniel
CNSS            Caisse Nationale de S6curit6 Sociale
DEG             Deutsche Entwkic gs Geseshaflt
DMC             Division Mornaie et Cr6dt
DMMI            Dar Al-Maal Al-slhmic
DNT             Direction Nationale du Tr6sor
BEC             Europea Economic Communit
IB              European lnvestent Bank
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
ICB            bIernational Competitive Bidding
]DA             Intern&0onal Devebpment Associaon
IFC             Intrnainal Fimance Corpontion
MARA            Mestre de l'Agriculre et des Ressources Animales
MUTRAGUI    Mutuelle d'Assurance des Travalileurs de Guinme
NGO             Non-Government Organizations
OPIP            Office de Promotion des Investssements Privds
PAGEN           Proame d'Aide A ta Gestion Economique
PFA             Pr6servatrice Foncibre d'Assurance
P1P             Policy Framework Paper
PIP             Public Invesanent Progam
PPF             Project Preparaion Facility
PSPP            Prvate Sector Promotion Program
SAL             Stucal Adjusunn Lon
SPOM            Soci*e Fnancire d'Oztre-Mer
SGBG            Societ6 Genetab de Banque en Guine
SIFDA           Socie lternationale pour le Fioancement et le Devebppement en Afiique
SOGAM           Soci5te GuE e d'Assurances Mutelies
SONAG           Socwi6t Nouvelle d'Assurances de Gum6e
SONAM           SociME Natinale des Asurances Mutuells du Sng
UIBG            Union Inernatonale- de Banque en Guin6e
UGAR            Union Guinenne des Assuances et REassurances
UNDP            United Naios Devdopment Progpam
USAID           United States Agency for Intrnon  Development
FISCAL YEAR
Januay 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
Qs&  FmdI Sector O-we
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FINANCLAL SECTOR OPERATION
Table of Conkents
.                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~page
Credit and Project Summay ............................    ....... iii
PART L    BACKGRO 'ND ....................1:........  I
PART U. OVERAULL ECONOMC SITUATION AND PROSPECTS..   2
A. Current conomic Perfonnance .2
B. Fiscal Policies.                                             4
C. MonetaryPolicies ...............................  4
D. Econoii Prospects. S
E. Red Sector - Current Siuation and Prospects.6
PART m.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR:
CURRENT SrrUATION AND MAJOR ISSUES..                            7
A. GCenrd Structue of the Finanial Sector.                      7
B. Finanial nstitutions.                                        7
C. The Environent .13
PART IV. THE FINNCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM ..17
A. Reforming the Enroment .......            ..........  18
B. Refoming the Strture of the Financial Sector .22
C. Instuional Restuctuing and Buflding .................. 25
D. Techal Assistance ..........   26
PART V.   THE OPERATION ...............................27
A. Amount and Thming ....................,                  . 27
B. Mangemet, Monitoring and Reporing .                         27
Letter of Sector Developmnt Poicy and Policy Matrix     27
Disbursement of the Second Tranche .27
Implemeting Istituions.. .                              28
Coionwith the IMF and JFC.28
Coordination with Other Donors .29
PART VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........................   29
Benefits .29
Projec susaia....y  30
Risks .30
Tab  of Contents (contd.)
This dociet has a rsricte diributin and may be ud by recian only in me Pe e_ a i1o
ica duts Is ontes nmyrt ehawis bedilosed ift World Bank ahoriz do



pag
PART VI. PROCUREMENT, DISURSEMENT AD
ADMNS        TION  ...............- 30
Procuement  . .30
Disbuseme  .         ...                                  30
Accouns and Audits                                     . 31
PART VIL BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA  .                                  31
PART X    RECOMMENDATION ...........................,.. 33
ANNEMPS:
ANNEX I Statistical Annex
Table 1:  Commercial Banks: Growth m Domestic Currency Deposits and
Loans
Table 2:  Key Macroeconomic Indicators
Table 3:  Extenal Financing Requiemeb, 1993-97
Table 4:   Financial Insdions: Assets
Table 5:  Commercial Ban: Distrbton of Ownership
Table 6:  Commercial Banks: Summary Balance Sheet
Table 7:  Commerci  Banks: Distrion of Cradt by Economic Sector
Table 8:  Commercial Banks: Distribuion of Public and Private Sector
Deposits
Table 9:  Insurane Companies: Distibution of Ownership
Table 10: Cr6dit Rual: Selected Data
Am         Supplemenal Note on Technical Assisance Componen
Anex m   Letter of Sector De-Jlopment Policy
Amex IV   Polcy Matrix
Annex V    Bank Group Operatons in Guie
Anne VI  Timetable of Key Progm Processing Events
Map        IBRD 25798



nab ro"scwOma
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FINANCIAL SECTOR OPERATION
CREDrr AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Rorrower             Republic of Guinea
Mnistry of Emae (MOF), Minsty Of Justice (MO), central
Bank of Republc of Guiea (BCRG), Financial Insttutions
Por  Categorr:       Poverty-Focwed Opetion: eliminat distordons in savions
and credt that discriminate against the poor
Credit Amount:       SDR 16.3 million (US$23 million equivalen)
Tms:                 Standard IDA tms, with 40-year maturity
In    :rn
IDA                US$23.00 million
CIDA               U,S$ 0.60 milLon
CFD                US$ 0.46 millon
USAID              US$ 1.60 million
Not yet deernined   US$ 0.38 million
TOTAL              US$26.04 mUllion
Rate of Retu         Not applicable
map                  IBRD No. 25798



thb eRudl Saor Ope*wio                                                    iv
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FINANCIAL SECTOR OPERATION
CRED1T AND PROJECT SUMMARY (contd.)
Neojee Ducripiom   T'he proposed credit will support a multi-fceted finacl secto
operation to be underkn in the context of the country's medium-
term economic program. ITe operation's objectives will be to:
(a) stengthe the monetay regulatory, superory and judicial
environment; (b) develop a bridge between the infonnal and
formal sectors to increase the reach of he financial sector; and
(c) build upon the human resource base and mprove institutional
capacity. On the policy front, the Government will contnbute to
the development of indirect instruments of monetary sanagement
such as open mark  operations, diseage from the s.pital and
management of financial institutions, adopt regulation for all
categories of financial institutions, reinforce supervision
mechanins, and take measures to improve the judicial system in
its enforcement of financial contracts and the recovery of bW
debt. To build a bridge betwee the formal nd informl
sectors, the system of mutualistic savings and loan institutions will
be extended in rural areas, and a new system will be introduced in
Conakry. Isidtout  buildng will focus on: (i) improving the
capacity of the Central Bank to conduct monetary policy and
supervise and retuctur financial institutions; (ii) building the
capaci within the Ministry of Finance to monitor and analyze
financial sector developments; (iii) strngtning the Ministy of
Justice and the court system; and (iv) training commercial bank
and insrance company staff, as well as members of the legal
profession.
PItject 1_:         The program will lead to a competitive, solvent and self-
sustainable financial sector, composed of healthy institutions,
catering to the needs of savers, investors and borrowers in the
formal and informal sectors, which will support economic growth
and social progress. An efficient financial sector will contribute to
an effective monetMy and credit policy and to the stability of dte
Guiean economy. In particular, the movement toward market-
determined interest rates will contbue to domestic resource
mobilization and spur economic activity. The financial sector
reform program wil also facilitate the development of the private
sector and the privatization of public enterprises. Through the
mral finae schemes, the program wil reach owners of small
businesses, particularly women, and contribute to poverty
alleviation. The progam emphasizes governmne, institution
bilding and human resource developmen. Lasty, the program
supports the rehabilitation of the judicial system, paularly with



Guinea RbmwmcI Sector Openadcs                                              v
respect to the enforceme  of financial contas and will
contribte to increasing confidence in the busines   envonent.
Projed Ris:         Deteroration of the    c        stuaion and public financ
may have a negative impact on filancial Insttutions. To preveot
this fom hapening, the credit is contingent upon thde mntenane
of a stable anc    mc famewrk. Contuing dialogue
between Guina authorities, the Bank and the IMF, in the contet
of an active Fund program, will minimize the rik of
deterioratnof the mauroeconomic siuation. Further riks are
related to the capacity of Govemment to implement such a lrge
progm. To minimize this risk, the adjustment credit has been
supplemented by a tedhical assistance component, designed and
targeted to maxmize the ransfer of technology and skldls, and
facilitate the imple ion of the policy measures.
Eatited IDA         The total Credit (US$23 million equivalent) would consist of an
D     _1 Ments:   adjusUent credit of US$18.0 million equivalent and a techmical
assistce componen of US$5 million equivalent which includes
refinaning of the Projet Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$1.5
million equivalent. The adjustment credit will be disbursed in two
trches. A first tranche of US$9.0 million will be made availble
upon effectiveness. The second tranche of US$9.0 million will be
made avalable upon sasfacory progress in impleming the
maoeconomic and financial sector programs. The technical
assistance component will be disbursed over a 24-month period,
and will follow standard Intenonal Development Associaion
(IDA) procedures.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOAMATION OF THE URSIDENT
TO TH EXIUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSID CREDf1
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUIMEA
FOR A FINANCIAL SECTOR OPERATION
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and r eon  on a
proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Credit to the Republic of Guinea for SDR 16.3
miion, the equivalent of US$23 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40
years. The proposed credt is a quick disbursing operation with a technical assistance
component, to support the Governm's financial sector reform program as descibed in
a Letter of Financial Sector Development Policy submitted by the Govemsent to IDA on
June 6. 1994.
PART I. BACKGROUND
2.    In 1985, after more than 25 years of cental economic planning, a new
Govemment decided to reintroduce a market economy m Guinea. The country thus
embarked on a series of economic and financial reforms supported by IDA, the INIF and
bilateral donors. The main objective was to radically resrue the Guinem economy,
reduce the role of the State in productive activities and develop the private sector as the
engine of growth.
3.    As part of the first phase of financial reforms, six statewned bunks were
Liquidated and the country was left with one privately-owned commcial bank. The only
iurance company, a Govermen-owned institution, was also liquidated. A more
umodernu Central Bank (Banque Centrale de la R6publique de Guinee, BCRG) was
established. To att   new commercial banks and insurance companes to Guinea,
generomus inctive packages were offered which resulted in the establshment of severa
new insuions in Guinea. These reforms gave the bankig sector a new impetus which
translated into phenomenl growth of deposits and loans in the early years. Credit to the
private sector, almost non-exstent at the begining of 1986, represented almost half of
domestic credit by1988 and over 90% at the end of 19' Tbl  of Annex I provides
informion on the growth in domestic currecy deposits and loans of commercial banks.
4.    However, the euphoria of the early post-reform years quicldy subsided and many
busines ventures tuned sour, negatively affectig commerci  banks. Furtemore, some
of the fundameal problems that plagued the financial sector had not been adequaely
addressed. For insance, bankng regulation did not include directives for loan
classification and provisioning; the judiciary apparatus did not provide adequate support to
financial institutions in the enforcement of contracts and recovery of bad loans because of
shorigs in legal texts, weak enforcement of legal rulings and a cuture which gave
Little weight to writen contracts. As a result, financial institutions found themselves once
agai in a difficult environment. Some banks had to limit the scope of their opefations in
the face of nonpefoming portfolios wlch had not been adequately provioned. Until



GidiaU FM. &awor  C       'Jarw                                           2
recely, bans also had difficulty finding an oudet for their excess funds, which were left
in non-interest earning deposits at the Ceniral Bank, and  u curtailed depsit
moiization. Most banik ino  originated ftom fcreign exchange opetions rather than
frm more taditional loan and deposit activites. Insurance compaies also experienced
difficuties, several having used up most of their capital in the early years of operation.
Two rur finance projects bave been successfil n mobilizing resources and extending
small credits (the recovery rate excieeds 98%), but they depend beavily on donor subsidies
to cover their opertig costs. There is a small morney market and no bond market. On
the other hand, there is a very active inforaal financial market in the cities, as well as in
rural aras. The lack of penetraion of the formal financial sector is reflected in a low
ratio of M2 to Gtoss Domestic Product (GM?) of 7%, less than half the average ratio for
Sub4ahar Africa, and a high currency/M2 ratio, which at 47% is among the highest in
Afra.
5     For the adjustment of the Guinean economy to be successful, it is necessa  to
create a business environment which will encourage investment and growth. To achieve
this, the econmy mum be supported by a healthy financial sector that effectively
mobizes domestic resourcs and enables entrepreneurs to obtain funds at the lowest cost
commenurate with risk. Increasing the level of buess mitennediated by the formal
sector would permit institons to reach a more optimal size and thus help reduce the
average cost of providing financial services. The objectives of the reorm supported by
te proposed Fincia Sector Adjustment Credit are articulated around three main axes:
(a) strenghn    the environment within which financial insutions operate;
(b) developing a bndge between the informal and formal sectors to increase the reach of
the financial sector; and (c) building upon the human resource base an strengthening
institutioa capacity.
PART HI. OVERALL ECONOMIC SRIUATION AND PROSPECTS
A. Cumet FEnomic Perfonace
6. Guinea is one of the poorest and least urbanized countres in Africa. Its per
capita GDP is approximatly US$511 (1993). About 75% of its 6 million population live
in ural areas, while 90% of the remaining 1.5 million persons live in the captal city of
Conakry. In 1993, the mining sector accounted for 20% of real GDP, 85% of export
eaings and 39% of Government domestic revenue. Agriculture and other primay
sector activities have traditionally provided the bulk (about two-thirds) of employment and
account for about 25% of real GDP. Trading activities, incluing the infrmnal sector,
contute to an estimated 26% of total GDP.  he ma  i    sector is small,
accountg for less than five percent of real GDP.
7.    In less than a decade after the dure of the old regime, the Government has
achieved delrating inflation and positive economic growth. Table 2 of Annex I
provides key m    mic data. Inflation dropped to an estmated 7.1% in 1993 from
highs of 37% and 28% in 1987 and 1989, respectively. GDP growth rates averaged
4.0% a year during the 1987-93 period, concenated in small-holder farming and small-
scae enterprses, while the response from the modem sector was modest. Gross domestic
inetent averaged 16.4% of GDP bdewe  1988 and 1993. The economic prgm has



Gahm Fi!awc Seder Operao                                                    3
also involved a an3jor change in the policies towards public sector e prises. As a
rest, the number of public enterprises were reduced frm 200 to 110 from 1985 to
1988. The program still has to deal with some of the larger entetprises.
8.    The agricultural sector, including agro-industries. has grown in recent yean and
higher nural incomes have, in turn, boosted overall commercial activity, particularly in the
tuade sector. National account estimates show that value added in the agicultural sector
grew by about 3% per annun in 1989.91 and more than 4% in 1992. While agricturai
sector performace in Gumea has surpassed that of neighboring counties, it remains
below the cuntry's potential Past investment in agrictuWre (fmanced almost exclusively
by the international donor community), whle considerable, concentrated both on the
improvement of the Ministry's capacity to provide services, and the creaion of public
enterises engaged in production and marketing. Moreover, while there have been
imprvement in ptices and export incentives, they have been insufficient to elicit the
appor    response. To achieve higher GDP gtowth based on expansion and
diversification of exports in agriculture, Guinea will need to make strategic chmges in
agricultural policy. Further improvements in the pricig,  gatory and instittional
framework are needed to develop food crops; achieve food security (the production of rice
and vegetable oils); stimulate the expansion of traditional expoit crops (coffee, cotton and
horticultural products); and foster diversification into other export crops. Achieving these
objectives will necessitate measures to: (a) clarify the responsibility of cen   institutions;
(b) reduce the involvement of the public sector in the production and marketig of
gricultural output; (c) strengthen incentives for local food production (by eliminatig
import duty exemptions and r ining the tariff rate on rice imports); (d) implement
the land temnre code of 1992 (which provides for pnvate land ownebip); and
(e) improve economic infrstrucxtre.
9.    Besides agricultural resources, Guinea is endowed with sizable mineral deposits
(bauxite, gold, diamond, iron-ore and other minerals) dth make it one of Africa's
resource-rich countries. In particuar, Guinea has bauxite reserves of about 20 billion
tons, or approximately one-third of the world's proven reserves and an esfimated long-
term gold exaction potential of between 10 to 15 tons per year. It also has considerable
diamond deposits which presendy support an anal production of about 200,000 carats
(inclung artisa   mining). Finally, Guinea has miner resources which have not been
exploited yet, partly due to economic factors (hiadequaes of uporting  fastructure,
weak ncentive StrC  and insufficient private ivetmet), technical shoromings
(insuicient geological reseach) and environenl problems. To achieve higher GDP
growth, Guinea will have to overcome these problems and diversify minin production
and exports.
10.   Guinea has made substantia progress in   _       policy. Since 1985, it
has undetken a broad range of financial and strucral reforms, aimed at eviizing the
economY and reducing domestic and external i anc, based on market-oriened
policies. These reforms have included the inmtroduction of a liberad and flexible exchange
system, the lifting of price controls, the divestiture of a large number of public
ntrprises, e curilment of public sector and civil service employment, the lifting of
interest rate controls and the introduction of indit monetary policy instrents, the
reiinforcemen of Governmen expenditure controls and the st engt     of economic
moniting and management capacity.



D. Fisnal Poies
11.   Before 1988, Guin  had no formal budget; the Government spent the bauxite
Ming revenues as the funds came in. In 1989, the Governmen issued its first modern
budget. It established: (a) centralized control over debt contracting; (b) new procedures
for commhimnt of expenditures, -including the creation of a specialied unit to screen the
quality of expenditures; (c) ceilings on the wage bill and size of the civil service; and
(d) a sytem of monthly budget execution overviews and spendng plans, with ceilings on
acal tpending enforced by the Treasury and Central Bank. Since April 1993, a public
finance monitoring committee (Comit6 de Suivi des Finances Publiques) has met weeky
to monitor the Governmen's fiscal perfomance.
12.   Govemment has made significant prct,;ess in controlling its budget. Tough
budget measr  and a reduction of inflation helped improve the prmary budget deicit
(excluding mining revenues) from 5.3% of GDP in 1991 to an estimated 3.5% In 1992
and an estimatd 2.8 % in 1993. This result was achieved with severe budget cuts and ta
meeas.
13.   Governmen revenue collection improved significantly during the first nine montbs
of 1993. In contast to earlier experiences, improvement in program monitoring alloved
ealy detection of diverging reveme trends and the timely adoption of corrective actions
by offt  cuts in Govanment expenditure. This enabled Govanment to contain the
oveal fiscal imbalances, while also strengthening Govemmernt expenditure control.
Duing the last three yeaus, total expeiture has been reduced as a raio to GDP by
ablost sx percentge poins, reflecing cuts in both cur  and capia outlays.
14.   Government is not a net user of resources from the financial sector and it has
lmited recourse to commercial bank fina g to a strict minimum; the public investment
pogram is financed entirly with budgetary and concessional foreign funds. Durig the
19889  Peiod, Governmnt accmulated substantal arrears on its foreign debt
(US$313.6 million at the end of 1991) which were subseqenly clered through Pwais
Club arrangements in November/December 1992.
C. M ary Poicies
1S.   Monetar vargets are set in collaboration with the IMP. Central Bank credit to
Govenmet is capped at 20% of the previous year's Govemen revenues. Money
supply (currency and sight deposits) increased at an annual average rate of 20.8% beween
1988 and 1992. Quasi-noney, comprising term deposits and foreign currency deposits,
incresed at an annual average rate of only 7.7% during the same period. Foreign
arrcy r _ep    ed the fastest growing component, averaging 12.4% amnaly.
16.   INerest rates are crrently positive in real terns and the steamlning of
administratvely set rates1 in June 1993 has been a major improvement in the conduct of
monetay and credit policies. With falling inflation, real interest rates have been high.
Until Jume 1993, niAeeen rates of intest bad been administraely set by the Cetal Bak (fbuee
maulmn   rates and five minimu deposit ras).



Qiava AW       &aw Opupa                                                   5
VWe T     y Bis auction maket, stard in Decemner 1993, wlI allow IAnrt rates ti
better reflect market force. Most rat, with the eception of th minimum savings rte
will be  d to the auction rate. Iterest ra  o   e auCtion maket have bon flling
from one aucton to another. Ti will, In time, brting nomina   ate more In line with the
Iation  e.
17.   Forei8n excdge oraomw can best be described as a 'managed float'.
Demands for forei  excange by t  private sctor are  bmed to the Cetral Bank an
tne basis of import dcluion frm. These demands and the offers for sale of foreign
excbange by the private sector are reviewed by BCRG each Friday at the auction. The
main purpose of te meeting at th   ction betwee  commrcial ban  and BCRG officialX
is to assess the validit of the demands for forign exchage. AU valid demands are
sasfied (i.e. demand to fiac imports        d by requir  documentation,
iwluding certficatio of value of the imported goods). The exche rate is
admnistravly set by the BCRG in view of the net demand for foreig excage, the
level of foreign assets held by the Cental Bankc, the rate on the paralll maurkt and the
afe agreed upon between the Government and the DI.
D.  conomic Prospoec
18.   Implementation of the Govement's macrconomic stabilization and adjustment
prom   ted in red economic growth averging 4.0% per amrn for the period
1987-93, as noted in pan. 7. The prospet for achieving subsnlly bigher GDP
gth are consained by the country's dependency on the mining sector, ptcularly
bauxite and alumina. The volit of foreig exchange ammngs, which b unavoidably
inked to a nearly sW e-     economy, has rendered the conrs strucu  adjustme
process more difficult ad has bee largely esponsable for an uneven fiscal performae.
Guinea's long-term developnt s y  will need to stress the diversfction of its
export base away firom mining and concentrate on the asricultural sector as the focal point
of future GDP growth In the medterm, however, Guinea will contu  to depend on
the min   sector as a scurce of reveue. New invesmns in mining, particlarly in
gold and diamonds, will compnsate for the low prices of bauxdte and alumina.
19.  ITe Gu ilean Adinistrati  has con_ti    to underscore the importance of
remaining fuly on course with ma  omic  ngent refdorms, s ing the
priples of stiza, liberaliien and privatization, of the economy. This will
imply, inter ,             in the rguatory fmework - partiuarly affectig the
financial sector, minig and agriculture - to elicit the necessary private sector response.
The Government tends, at the same time, to give priority to ivsmet in
infrastute, poverty reduction and human resources, and the environment in order to
enosure the sutinability of economic growth. Based on tis strategy, the Government
expects to gradualy improve real GDP gowth in the next thre years: from 4.5% in 1993
to 4.8% by 1997. Thi is8 expected to resut from incrased grvwth both in the minig
sector (from its curret level of 2% to 4% in 1996) and in non-mining acdvity (from 4%
in 1993 to 5% in 1996). lnflation is expected to be contaned at about 4% per annu.
lhe Goverment has conlded an agrement wih the IMP and an ESAP is being put Into
place.



GWa       ca Sor Operato                                                   6
20.   The ant account deficit of the balce-of-paymts, before official trfs, is
anticipated to decline from an estimated 10.9% of GDP in 1994 to about 8.1% in 1997.
This is the result of two factrs: the projected low prices of ming exports, in pariular,
bauite and alumina; and the high level of imports of iftrmediate nd capital goods that
are needed to sustain GDP growth. Beginning in 1997, the impact of weak bauxite and
alumin prices will be offset in part by now mining venues (particularly in gold and
diamonds) and the expansion in agricutural exports resulting from implenation of
macroeconomic and sectoral policies and strategies.
21.   Extrl resource requiems are likely to remain high for the period ending in
1997, reprenting 11% of GDP in 1994 and 8% in 1997. [gIf  a of Anex I provids
the exal fiancin requiements for 1994-97. In 1994, a current account deficit
(excuding public transfers) of about US$374 million is expected. Official transfers are
exected to be of the order of US$131 million. Part of the fhicing requirements are
anticipated to be met by private commercial sources. Te remining financing
requremen  are excted to be covered by project-related financing (US$143 million),
exceptional fiancing (US$43 million) and debt relief. With the IMF-fiac  ESAF in
place} Guinea wil benefit from substatl debt relie under Enhanced Toronto te. A
Paris Club meeting is expected to be held in late Sqeptber 1994. Guinea is also seeling
IDA financing under the IDA-only Debt Reduction Facility for a debt-buy-back operation
wbich witl enable it to purchase eligible commercal debt in the seconday market. This
operation is now under preparation. Table 2 of Annex I presents bac of-payments
projecions for the 1994-2000 period.
E. Real Sector - Crrnt Storn and Prospects
22.   Preliminry meures, taken by Govemmen to improve the enviromnent, have
encouraged the developmet of the private sector and provided suppor for the
privatiztion of public enterprises. An inial supply response by the real sector is already
apprent. New registrations of companies have inreased approximately 14% (416 new
enterises, January-October 1993, compared to 365 regtered during the previous year).
The largest increse occurred in commerce and services, rqprsnting 50% of new
eness registered, while m           represented 38%. The remaining 12% were
in the fishing sector. More than 80% of these investment projects were made by
Gulneans with the support of a foreign technical or financial partner.
23.   Furemore, a recent study identified 55 potetial investment projects in need of
financing, toang US$30 million (34 prvposed new enterprises, 11 projects to exand
and modernize existig enerprises and 10 projects to renovae and modernize privatized
businesses). The same study concluded td  strengthening of the financial sector wiUl
bring about an increase in produve investmet of about US$3 - 3.5 milliom per year
over a five-year period in small- and medisized businesses, beyond the genral
increase in economic activity geneated by improvWed financial i edian. In addition
to new annual investment, it is expected, as the economy impr , that demand for
finacing to expand and modern ze operations wil also incrase.
24.   Government has made progress in reducing the role of the State in the economy,
stregthenig the pubhc finances and incre_sng the demand for domestic and foreign
resores. Of a total of 200 public enterpis  operating in the commercial, industri and
service sectors, 90 have been privatized or liquidated (pata. 7). After a temporry



Gidne Anw  Setr Oprada                                                      7
slowdown of the privatiaton effort, the Government has undtaken to reform enterpis
of strategic importance. As part of this effort, it has privatized petrolum ditibution,
has sucessfully transferred the responsibility for the management of Gine's uba
watr supply system to private hands, and is compleing similar private na _gement
arragements for producing and distributing electricity, teleommunications and postal
services. In November 1993, the Govemn signed a contac allowing for tota prvae
owneship of a gold mine parially ficed by Interntional Finance Coration (IC
and is negotiatig fill pivate ownershp with two other mining companies. An additional
43 public enterprises with commercial functions are being examied for possible
privatization. All of these privatizations will require financing frm a renewed fiancial
sector.
PART mII. TE FNANCIAL SECTOR:
CURRENT SITUATION AND MAJOR ISS)ES
A. Genea Setucur of the Fin i Sector
25.   The financial sector of Guia comrises: (a) the Banque Centrale de la
Rpiblique de Guin6e (BCRG); (b) six commercial bans: Banque In   le  pour l
Commerce et l'Industrie en Guin6e (BICIGUI), Banque Internationale pour l'Afe  en
Gut& (BIAG), Socidt6 G6nrale de Banqu en Guin6e (SGBG), Banque Islamique de
Guin6e (BIG), Banque Populaire Maroco- enne (BPMG) and Union In onale de
Baque en Guin6e (UIG); (c) four insurnce companies: Soci6t6 Guin_= d'Assun
Mtelles (SOGAM), Soci&t Nouvelle d'Assurances de Guin6e (SONAG), l'Union
Guin6enne des Assurc  et R6assurances (UGAR) and Mutuelle d'Assurance des
Travailleurs de Guin6e (MUTRAGUI); (d) two rural credit projects: Cr6dit Rural and
Cr6dit Mutuel; (e) a social security institution, Caisse Nationale de SEcurM Sociale
(CNSS); (f) several fiuds and credit lnes set up by dono agencies; and (g) an inrmal
sector. There are no fiancial markets, although the recent issues of Treasury Bills mak
the beginning of a money market.
26. The commercial banks dominate the formal financial sector, accounting for over
90% of total finaial sector assets. The modem insuran  industry which began
operatig in 1988 accunts for four percent of total financial istitutiIons' assets, while
rural savings instiuions account for only one percent. On the other hand, the inforal
market is esmated (on the basis of activity in the gold, diamond and informal trade
sectors) to be larger than the formal financial sector and appears to operate effiienty.
Table 4 of Annex I lists the financial institutions. This section analyzes the finncial
instituidons and the monetary, regulatory and judiciary evionme  in which they
oprate. Paut IV discusses the reform program aimed at resolving the problems ientfied
in this section.
B. Finmcia Ixslttons
27.   Comnmrl baks. As noted in para. 25, six bans curreny operate in Guiea.
Mme two largest banks, BICIGUI and SGBG, account for more than 60% of the matket
(measured either in terms of assets, deposits or loans outstai . Most of the banks
limit their activities to Conakry. BICIGUI is the only bank with a branch network (throe



G~w Raal&tr Opiaku                                                         8
points of sale in Conakry and eight braches outie the capital). BPMG, which iMn
to Aimcton as a mutual bank, plans to open two branches in Conakry and two in nta
areas.
28.   Ow *p. Three bans (BICIGUI SGBG and UIBG) are linked to lage
French commercial bak. BIG is an Islamic bank with a large partidipation of Sadi
inerests and BPMG is contoled by a group of Morccan saving bank. The
Goverme  participates in the capital of three of the banks (BICIGUI, BIAG and
BPMG). The other three banks, SGBG, UIBG and BIG are filly privately owned.
Finally, the donr ommuity,  cluding IFC and CFD, holds shares in the BICIGUI.
Table 5 of Annex I provides a distribution of shareholder equity of the com rcial banks.
Several BCRG and Govment officials also hold man_ament positions in comercil
banks which places them in a possible conflict of interest siuaton.
29.   Activtes. Commercil banks are rdatively small and rly on foreig exchange
taactions and investments in foreign currenc assets to generate income. Forei
currency denomined asset represent about half of the total asses of commer,ia bak.
The table on the followmg page and Table  in Annex I provide nformatin on the
acdvities of commercl banks.
30.   In their more traditonal banking actvies, baks focus on short-term credit whih
represents close to 90% of total creit outing. Longerterm loans are extended on
the basis of the availability of donors' lines of credit or refinancig from BCRG. Most
bank credit is oriented toward m.port/export/trade, agribusiness, textiles and consrction.
Tbese categories accou  for about 80% of total bank lending with trade finncing
representing close to 50% of the total. Table 7 of Annex I provides the disbution of
credit by economic sector. Credit is mainly exended to the private sector, although it is
concentrated on a Ihmited number of bonowers. In most banks four clients or less
acount for one-thid of credis outstndi. Tlis high conenaon reflects the
narowns of the market for forma banking services and raises the risiness of the
prtfolio of these  situtons. Less than one percent of the loan portfolio is outsading
to the public sector. On the other hand, 22% of bank deposits originate from the public
sector. Table8 of Annex I provides the disrbution of public and private sector
deposits.
31.    IquWdty. Most bans have been in a very liquid posiion becase of a sccity
of lending opportuities that translate into viable loan demands. The ratio of deposits to
loans, a proxy for liqidit, was greater thn 100% for five out of six commercial banks
and averaged 144% for the total banking sector. Because of a lack of appropriate markets
and istruments, banks were unable to obtain an adequate return on tbeir excess liquidity.
Until recetly, surplus fmda Led idle, often deposited in zero inerest accounts at the
BCRG. As a result, deposit mobilization has stagnated.
32.   Qualiy of prifolfo. Commercial bans suffer from a high level of non-
perfring loans. On average, 33% of the portfolio of commercial banks has been non-
performing. Many credits were extended during the 1986-88 period without adequate
analysis in the wave of euphria that followed the change in regime. They were ofenm
based on unduly optimstic projections of grwth and devdopment. Many credits were
granted to European bs often adventurews, and at tmes under presse from



Qkdne FRUN&"a SeoMr OPCIe,Wuo                                                  9
CooerWa8: Sdeetd Asse ad Liabilit
(as of Sember 30. 1992)
(CMW bilio)
CICIGU    SOG6   UBG    MG          AG    RPMG   AN Daub
L1W                      29.9    23.2   10.3   1L7       16.0      3.1     96.2
GNP               22.8    19.2    9.0   14.0    13.9        3.1     62.0
Fonelsgn uy               7.1     4.0    13      1.7      2.1       -       162
11 b 5l423                 30.0   15.7   11X       18.0      Ss      143.9
-   01W           4S.6    22.2   12.8   1(56      13.0     S5.      109.7
Forecuracy               16.9     7.8    2.9    1.3       5.0       3      34.2
(h"D                     209      129    L52      76     113      1S7       147
o    arm: DCRG
forein authorities. Credit analysis was complicated by the absence of financi and other
inormation on most borrowers and the lack of apropriate accountig and historical
records. Moreover, bank were not equipped to conduct such analysis. Bank did not
moni      ns and there was little atempt at recovery. Becuse of a lack of intaer
contols, the degradation of the loan portfolio was not caught at an early emugh stage,
nor wae remedial acos taken.
33.   Problems have boen compunded by the deficiencies of the judicial ystem
(discuse in pam. 65-70). While the main responsibility for the poor perfomance of
their portfolio rests with the bank which eeded the loans in the first place wthout
proper analysis and control, the deficiencies of the judicial apparatus have faciitaed, and
up to a point, have been an incentive for delinquency on the part of bomroers.
34.   Profitabity. Banks opae with high interest margi, a result of the abse   of
remueradon on demand deposits, which constite the bulk of the  resources, and the
high interest cost applied to short-term loas. However, several ban  also suffer from
high operang costs. As a result, profitabit  has been low or non-existent. Until their
rcent rsucuing, two bans, BIG and BIAG, regitered losses before provisioning.
BPMG i in a break-even siation. However, BPMG is in its early years of operations
and under the  r   t     , its low return is not umnual or noteworthy. Only BICIGUI
and UIBG exhibit a positive real rate of return on equity.
35.   Commeral baksb provide employment to over 600 persons, of which 47 are
eatries. Untl recently, banks were iadequately staffed to successfully montor and
recover loans. Staff was also poorly trained to perform financial risk analysis, and credit



Guinea Fhnw*d Sccor Opwatdn                                                10
decisions were based on the perceptions of bank manage_mn or the reputation of the
borrower. Computer   is at an early stage. Internal auditing and control
mechanisms are rudimentary.
36.   In the last two years, senior management has been caged in all banks and some
corrective measures have been taken. The credit granting process has been strengted
in many institutions; monitoring systems have been put in place; and several bans have
recently esabished reowvery units. Since Septmber 1993, commercial ban  have also
made provisions against their non-perfonning loans and two bans are being resuured
and recapitized.
37.   In sumary, the banking ser of Guinea is firage. While bank margins are
relatively high, the sector suffers from generally high opert  costs in relation to the
volume of busines, a large non-perfrming portfolio and the lack of profitable lending
and investment opportunities. Until recent restrucming (parn. 108), two banh were
tecnically insolvent and a tr faced serious difficulties. The performance of the other
banks remamns lackusr. Banks are involved in traditional banlkng activities only in a
limited fashion and derive their mcome from foreign exchange transactions and imvestment
m foreign currency assets. Bankng activities are severely constrained by the small size of
the formal market. The size of modern financial markets is limited by the low libeacy
rate (44% for males and 19% for females) and by the low level of economic activity that
can generate a demand for modern financial services. In this context, financial sector
development and deepening would seem to require the introduction of non-traditional
financial services which are not yet being offered by the modern banking sector.
38.    he hsrance sector. The four companies that offer insrance products in
Guinea have been in operion for less than three years. L'Union Guin6enne des
Assuances et Rarsuans (UGAR) statted operations in January 1989 and inherited the
business of a public sector insurance company, SNAR. it is still majority owned by
Government, but has a large participation of French UAP in its capital. UAP is also
responsible for the manaeme  of the company. The Soci*t6 Nouvelle d'Asrances de
Guin6e (SONAG), a private company, with a majority ownership by the French
Pr6servatrice Fonciere d'Assurance (PFA) stated operatng in July 19892. The Socift6
Guinenne d'Assurances Muteles (SOGAM), a private company with a large
participation of Socift Nationale des  ances Mutuelles du S6n6gaI (SONAM) began
operations in January 1991. Finally, the Mutuelle d'A 'umns des Travailleurs de
Guin6e (MUTRAGUI) began operating in Spring 1992. Government is absent from the
ownershi of the last tree companies. Tabl 9 of Anmex I provides a distnbution of
ownership of the insurance companies. UGAR is by far the largest companW accounting
for 85% of the market, measued either in terms of total assets or premm  issued.
39.   The industy employs 140 people and offers a diversified range of products
including automobile, transport, theft, fire and life inurance. The table on the following
page provides selected data on the three largest insurance companies. Automobile
insurance is the predominant source of business.
2  PFA is aury egodaia the sale of is interests to uinean investos as part of an oveall
stutkig of SONAG.



GQin  F   twW   aor Operaton                                                 11
a CiPnIMIN: Siedd DaBa
(Fisl Yea 1991)
SONAG   SOGAM    Al Companie
Tota Assets                        8,891       1,379     205           10,725
(GNF millkm)
Number of Etployees                 108          22       1O             140
Pmm  s                             7,370       1,111      S7            6,538
(CNM milkm)
Source Uvaudked flal stemen of hrace companies.
40.   The insurace industry has been facing problems. An erodg capital base and a
spectrum of financial and operational problems have weakened its financial position. All
of the isurAnce companies registered operating losses in 1991, although negative
profitability is not an unusual occurence m the first years of operation of a insurance-
company. They all suffered from high operaing costs. For instance, one company had a
ratio of operatig expenses to premiums greater than 100%. Initial start-up cost related
to legal, pricing and underwrin, plus daily opet  expenses may be significant.
Other large expenses may also occur during a period of rapid new business growth, with
first year commissions and reinsurae costs resulting in significant one ime chages.
However, the industry suffers from more fuxnmental problems. Most of the losses were
attrbutable to the automobile insurance branch, plagued by controlled premiums and large
awards. lsurance companies' profitability was also handicapped by the lack of financial
I,struments to invest reserves and provisions. Most instrm s were in the form of low
yielding term deposits in commercial banks, although the introduction of the Tasury
Bils market will provide an outlet for their excess liquidity and an opporty to imvest
in higher yielding instruments.
41.   Sodal secuity Instution. The Caisse Nationale 4 Scrit6 Sociale (CNSS) was
established in 1955 as the Caisse de Compensations Familiales with the current name
adopted in February 1960. CNSS offers: (a) family benefits (primarily matemity leave);
(b) occupational accident and sickness benefits; (c) bealth benefits (after the eighth day of
sickness); and (d) death, disability and retirement benefits. Employees coanrbute 3.2%
and employers contribute 16-20% of base salary, up to a maximum cap of GNF 300,000.
42.   CNSS is a poorly managed, technically bankrupt instition. It has high operating
costs; it does not have a proper accounting system; internal control procedures to ensure
the integrity of the institutionts mssets are inadeqe; there is a sole signatory authority in
all financial transactions; claims are processed manually and benefits are paid on a cash
basis from arent revenue. Moreover, no financial provisions are made for future or
pending claims nor is thee a longterm investment strategy to provide adequate income to
complement premhums received.



Gduva Financial SeCIor Operadon                                            12
43.   Rura savings and loan Istions. To foster monetization of rural areas and
develop rural credit, two projects were launched in 1988. Each of the existing structures
has a different philosopy and caters to a different clientele. The Rural Credit Prtvject led
by the CFD and co-financed by FED focuses mainly on a Grameen-type system. Tk?e
Mutual Credit Bank (Caisses de Credit Mutuel) led and financed by the Centre
International du Cr6dit Mutuel (CICM), linked to the Crdit Mutuel de France,
concentrates on resource mobilization. Credit Rural is more of a development institution
dealing with lower income customers. C6dit Mutuel's customers are generally civil
servants and the more elite merchants in rural areas. Both project have a large
proportion of women among their clientele. These projects respond to the needs of rural
commnities by mobilizing savings and extending credit on financial conditions
commensurate with their customers' needs. To overcome the low literacy rate, they
incorporate an important training component. Both projects benefit from extensive
technical assistance. They depend on subsidies to cover operatig expenses and fiud their
investment program. It is still uncertain whether further growth will permit them to
achieve self-sustainability. A U.S. fimded project, PRIDE, operates on the same
principles but is more limited in scope.
44.   The >bit Rural project began opertn in 1989, under the tuteae of Xt
Ministry of Agricultue and Animal Resources (MARA), as a pilot operation in two rural
prectres, Koundara and Telimele. At the end of December 1993, there were 19 local
units ("caisses") and 18 offices ("bureaur. d6centralisds") throughout the county. Credit
is provided to over 13,000 local farmers, fishermen, crafsme and tradesmen under two
programs, Cr6dit Solidaire and Credit Agricole. Under its statutes, Cr6dit Rural cannot
lend to civil servants. Table 10 of Annex I presents the allocation of credit in the four
regions. Total credit outstanding amounted to GNF 812 million at the end of June 1992.
Credits are to a large extent, financed by external lines of credits as total deposits
mobilized by local caisses, amounted to GNF 255 millon. Under CrEdit Solidaire,
credits are extended to groups of five clients which share responsibility for timeljr debt
service. Loam are extended for a maximum term of one year, bear a 36% annual rate of
inerest, and are for a maximum amount of GNF 120,000 in the first year of existence of
the group, GNF 150,000 for the second year and GNF 200,000 for the third year.
Financial penalties are imposed for undmely payment of principal and interest due.
Delinquent groups are barred from further extension of credit. So far, delinquency has
been kept at the low level of less than two percent, by the Grameen-type aroach of
sbared rensibily and by the involvement of village elders ("sages"). A solidarity fund
has been established receiving one percent of the loan proceeds to protect the borrowers
against default caused by sickness or death.
45.   Education is an important aspect of the intervention of CrEdit Rural, given the
illteracy of a large proportion of its clientele. Formal grating of credit is preceded by
the attendance at three mandatory training sessions and successful comletion of an exam.
Training of clients involves learing how to sign one's name, u ta     the conditions
attached to the loan and the various docments distributed.
46.   Cdt Mutuet, unlike CrEdit Rumal, focusses on savings mobilization through
demand, savings and tenn deposits and has experienced success in the somewhat wealthier
and more urban areas. Cr6dit Mutuel operates with 30 local "caisses" in the regions of
Labe, Kindia and Gueckedou. Its head office is located in LabE.



gulia   nnd,caor Opeadon                                                    13
47.   CrMdit Mutuel has no standard finacial product and no targeted clientele. It lends
to ay borrowers, irrespective of the nature of their activities, as long as they meet
eligibility criteria. However, the eligibility criteria are such that 98% of the clientele are
civil servants or merchants who reside in uban or semi-urban centers (those with the
highest savings rate) and whose activities are seldom related to agriculture.
48.   Credit is limited to 50% of the resources collected through deposit mobilization.
A 16% rate of interest is paid on sight deposits and 20-21% on term deposits. Loans
canry a 30% annual rate of interest. At the end of October 1992, deposits totalled about
GNF 1,175 million and loans outstandimg GNF 724 mifllion.
49.   Donor funds and  1n  of credit. CFD, EEC, USAID and UNDP have special
funds or lines of credit to deal with the perceived lack of financing for small- and
medmsized firms and for micro-enterprises. Some of these facilities are very small,
with a total envelope of US$50,000 or US$100,000. Others amount to a few million US
dollars. Some offer very limted financig (GNF 25,000). Others can offer loans up to
half a million Guiean francs. Some financing is offered at market rates; others on soft
terms. Several programs are intended as a bridge between the formal and informal
sectors. There is little coordination between these facilities and their impact is limited.
50. The infonral market. The infonnal financial market involves transactions in
forein curency (CPA francs, French francs  d US dollars) and in Guinean francs.
Two distinct, yet somewhat linked, segme   of the informal sector co-exist: the "large
informal sector' populated with large importers, gold and diamond traders; and the "small
informal sector" where mico-credit mecanisms prevail. The large players feed the
informal foreign exchmge market, but also strut   the small informal credit sector.
Their commercial and production activities stradde the formal and informal markets.
51. The informal market is successful because it provides faster and more readily
available (without red tape) financial services for foreign exchange operations, money
tasfers and short-term domestic finacing and makes up, through social/moral collateral
mechanisms, for the lack of equity and collater from the borrower. On the oter hand,
informal financial markets do not provide medium- to long-term credit nor modem
financial instumen  tailored to the needs of their customers.
C. Th       oen
52.   The monetary, fiscal, regulatory and judicial environment within which financia
institutions operate has a strong influence on the performance of these institutions. The
Cental Bank and the Ministry of Finance play an important role in settng this
environme nt and will be considered first in this section.
53.   The Central Bank (BCRG). The Cental Bank operates with a staff of 376
within seven dnvsions. Three expaaes provide technical assistance under IMF, UNDP
and USAID financmg. They have played an important role in strengthening the Central
Agri           only accouns fbr 10 perce of total ousnd  cedit; housing fina, rpesent more
than 40 percent of the ouann credit whe comme  compses 28 perent



Qab  Rmacl: &w  Operaton                                                   14
Dank. A systematic approach has been developed to strengthen its huana resource base
by: (a) sendiDg senior managers abroad for training; (b) providing on-thejob trainig by
expatiates; (c) lamching a determined effort to attact qualified Guineans workiing abroad
back to Guinea to work at the Central Bank; and (d) developing its own trning capacity
(a training center is curenly under constucdon and is expected to be operational by
December 1994).
54.   The Cental Bank, however, contiues to suffer from itena weaknesses. Until
recently, intemal mangement organs had not all been put into place. For instance, this
was the case of the Board of Directors which should have been establHshed according to
the stas of the Central Bank to approve the budget of the Bank, devise monetary and
interest rate policy, authorize the opening and closing of commercial bank brnches,
approve intal regulations of the Central Bank and determine the terms of credit
extended to Goverent. A   n           unit to monitor macro and financial variables
and devise and implemgen monetay policy is lackig. An efficient archive and
doumentation system is also lacking. Computeization remains spotty. Inconsistencies
exist in the stascs produced by difrent divisions. Delineation of tasks has not been
established beween the seven divisions nor is there an u sng of the links that
mut be manined between them.  rthermore, lack of a managedal work plan and high
turnover of staff create weaknesses in the human resource structure. A functional analysis
is required to determie whether the curre  organmzation of BCRG is adequate and what
ntrrelaionships need to be established between the various divisions. Training of staff
cnnumies to be needed in many areas (e.g. monetay ranagement, supervsion, compuer
operatons and legal services). Furtemre, the Cental Bank had been frustrated in its
eorts to implement its monetary and interest rate policy, manage its itemational
portfolio and supervise the operations of its branches by the lack of a viable
elecommunications system. However, recently, service provided by SOTELGUI has
improved, enatiling BCRG to conduct its daily operations with minimal interruptions.
S.   Mm Mnity of Finnc. According to its mandate, the Ministry of Finane
shoud  participate in discusions of monetary policy and the regulation and supervision of
finc  insitutions. This is the responsibility of the "Division Monnaie et Cr6dit
(DMC) of the "Direction Nationale du Trdsor (DNT)". While the Ministry of Finance
has received a great deal of tecical assistance in the past, this area has not been the
subject of much attention. As a result, DMC does not possess the internal capacity to
effectvely fulfill its role.
56.   The DMC presendy is undetd. Many positons within the division remain
vacant. Moreover, poor physical and logistical worldng conditions of this division
(inclng insasubrity of the building, lack of office supplies, telephon, etc.)
y reduce the division's capability to finction properly. Nor are these
conditionS conducive to any form of transfer of skills or capacity building.
57.   Monetary aspets. Until mid-1993, changes in the money supply were efected
through Cenal Bank refinancing of eligible commercial bank credis and conversion of
eernal credits ito domestic crrency. Recently, there has been a move towards the
adaption of indirct iume  of money management with the establishment of a



Galne F&kMnda &cfor opErUi                                                  1
Treasury Billsmarket. Treuy Bills we  initiay offeed on a TP basis 4. An
auction market was introduced in December 1993. Isues have been subscnrbed by
insional investrs, including conmmrl bas, inrance compaies and the CNSS at
rates flucuatg between 18-19 1/2%. Reserve requirement were also reintroduced in
June 1993 at nine percent of total deposits. The ratio was subsequently reduced to seven
percent in September 1993. While these ane steps in the right dirction, further meaues
are needed to develop iduirect iment of monetay control (paras. 74-75).
58.   The check payment system in Guea works efficienly. Instuctions for
trasring fims between BCRG adn its agencies in the iior are forwarded by telex
and executed at BCRG in Conay. Loca commercal bank meet daily at the Cena
Bank to clear checks written against thidr accounts, a process which fimcdons smoothly.
As there are no commercial banks in the inuerior (except BICIGUI) and the use of checks
is lmhid, the clearing process is not very cumbem     for the banks. Checs drawn on
intebnational anks may take between two to ftee days to clear. The dme lag depends
on the relationship BCRG has with the crespondent bank.
59.   Fsal aspects. A new tax code was promulgated in February 1991 and is
gradual y beig implemented. The taxaton system includes direct andnd   taxes. The
income tax is, in principle, a global tax imposed on a taxpayer's income fiom all sources.
However, non-refndabit and finality of severa withholding taxes result in a schedular
tax system, one that taxes each kind of incm  separately rather than the individuals who
receive it. The financial income tax is a relic of an older, schedular tax system and now
applies as a witholding tax in some cases and as a final, schedular tax in others. The
withholding tax rate is a universal 20% of dividend and interest mccme paid. Financial
sevices are taxed through a turnover tax at 12% of the tax-inclusive amount of bank
nerest and commissions debited to the client. Insurance premia are taxed at 10%.
60.   All banks and iuance companies have or have had tax exemptions and other
favorable provisions in their Conventions d'Etablssemem. Banks and insurance
companies and their staff benefit from a gamut of exmptions from taxes and import
duties. Some benefit from a feeze of tation ("stabilisation fiscale") at the very
rudimenry stage at which it was when the conventions were signed. Fu rdmo, the
conventions allow some insions to esaeW regulation from the Central Bank. This is
the case of BICIGUI, whose shareholders have a put option on their shaes should
penalies be imposed on the bank for not repecting exisdng regulations.
61.   The existig tax system has a negative effect on finaial insttions and markes
in the following ways: (a) taxation delays the growth and development of the formal
finnca sector; (b) it provides arbtrag opporities that distort savings and fincial
choices; (c) the transactions tax has casang effects that impede financia i don;
and (d) tax exeions and other provisions of the Conventions dEtablissement impede
bank competition.
'  TAP basi: A predetrmind amoun of Treasury DIBs is offed at a preset rate of interest
An aucdon maret: A prtmd amount of Traury BDis is offered and die rate of interest is
demined rough te biddng process.



Guwamu Rbwda sucm Oparafkm                                                 16
62.   Reguatn nd supervison of fiacild m" ouns. Regulaton and
svision of financial insdtutions is uneven. Off-site supervision needs to be
stIregthened. Procedures for on-site supervision are imdequate. Inspecton reports need
to be sysmaticaly communiated to and discussed with bank management. Follow-up
procedure on inspctions need to be strengthened. Off-site supervision lacks the
necessary means and is hampered by the low quality of information reeived. While
severlW directives, which define the modality of transmission of information by
commeca bank to the BCRG have been issued, the absence of a uniform accounting
plan severdy compromses the usefilness of these forms, as the numbers provided under
a same heading by banb are defined differently.
63. In the insurance field, current regulation is considered inadequate by both
Government and industry officials. For automobile insrance, there is no schedule for the
setlement of claims, which often resuts in very large awards. Futhmwre, insace
tes are regulated by Government. Without the ability to pass on the custs of settlements
or limit the awards, the industry wil continue to suffer losses. Capita requiements for
insurance companies are low and there are no enforceable laws that require financially
weak comanies to suspend operations or obtain additional capital. There is no formal
arbitaon procedure, which is a customary format for insurers, reinsuers and the insured
to resolve disputes. Mutual companies in Guinea operate within a regulatory vacuum, as
lvas are primarily directed at limited liability companies. There is no unified accounting
plan for insurance companies. Investment and technical provision rules are inadequate.
64.   Insurane companies are supevised by the Insurance Section within the Cental
Bak  BCRG staff responsible for supervising the insuramc industry have not received
the level of training  ired to meet the imme"ote challenges facing the inrance
idustry in Guinea. There is no reglation and supervision of ural savings and credit
insitution. The activities and financial condition of CNSS, which falls under the
purview of the Miistry of Adminiative Refom, are not monitored by any outside
.aority.
65.   Ihe judal .ssm. The judicial sm does not provide adequate support to
the financial and economic commnity. The deficiencies of the judicial appas were
studied in the context of the Bank Private Sector Promotion Program (PSPP) project (Cr.
2148-GUI, PCR dated March 31, 1994). Serious problems exist with regard to legal texs
(or the lack of such texts), the current judiciary process and the training of the legal
profession.
66.   Judges nd lawyers conine to have difficulty accessing a compendm  of existng
legal texts. Some texts are outdated; for instance, the bankrupty legislation dates back to
1867. Until the PSPP operation, existg land legislation imposed serious limitations on
property rghts. There is still no procedure for the registration of mortgages and many
other types of guarantees. The land registry is insufficiently developed. This constues
a serious hindrance to bank lending, as land is the main coLateral security on the basis of
which financial insitutions extend medium- to long-term credit.
67.   Although there have bee recent improvement (paras. 87-90), the court system
stll does not provide adequte support to lenders in their actions agai delinquent
borrowers, even in cases of obvious fraud. Major problems relate to the difficulty in



Gediwa Fbomwnd Scsor OperatIc.                                            17
obtnig judgeme  in accordance with due process and getting the tmecution of court
decisio. Accelerated debt recovery procedue are generaly unavailale f-r mos types
and szes of loan. Procedure applicable to most oans are lengthy and cmbeome.
Guarantees, when they do exist, are generly ineffective. Foreign creditors experience
difulty collecting debt through the court system because they face prohibitively
burdenome reipements. Under article 74 of tie 'Code de proc6dure civie et
casmurciale". a "cauion adjudicatum solvi" is required from foreign entides who se
Guineans in Guinea. This requires that a bond be paid to the court (30% of the amount
clamed) as a guane that the foreig plaintiffs will not flee Guinea's jursdicton. Thi
caution" may be m idic   becase, by definition, most foreigners proscti  (unlike
those dnding) lawsuits in Guinea acimowledge the jursdiction of Guines courts ad
do not itend to flee. Such a bond serves only to discourage lawsuits initiated by
fordeigs in Guinea and reinforces foreigers' perception of the discrimination within the
lel system.
68.   Many Magistrates who preside in he courts have received limited training and
have mhinal experience in judging commrial disputes. More importany, out of the
aroximAtely 200 judges presty sittg in office in Guinea, only about 30 have been
Uaied as professonal magistrates. Some lawyes delay the execution of judgmet by
fing unwa ted appes. The rules of judicial conduct are not systatically enoced.
Coruton is still prevalent. Adequate resources are not available to effectively monitor
the professional behavior of members of the judiciary and prsecute violations of jdicial
etics.
69.   Low salaries, lack of financial ientives, lack of adequate office space and
logistical support cotntbu  heavily to the inefficiency of the judicial system
Courthouses severely lak basic office eqipam   and supplies. Courts need computr,
desks, chain, tpewrie  and most of the basic office upplies. The Office of the Clerk
of Court, which oversees the "Centre de FohmaltEs des Entrse" has some computer
equimnt. Others have little or no equipment at all.
70.   Whie deficiencies in the judici system are not the direct cause of the problems
faced by fa     institutions, they contribute to pepeuaite non-compliance with
coractual agreemen by lowering the cost of deliuWey. They are also a deter  to
commcial bans to actively pursue denquent borrowers. They urter conbute to a
lak of confidence in the Guinean bakg sector by foreg and domestic investors. The
judicial system also has a sero impact on the operation of insurance conipaes in the
country. L- ge awards negatively impact on the profitability of this sector and raise the
cost of insurance operations.
PART IV. TBE FNANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
71.   To deal with the problems discussed in Part m and ensure the success of this new
ronmd of reforms, the Govemment's program ceners on the environment and insttution-
buding. The program focuses on dtree major sets of issues. The first deals with the
moneay, regulatory, supervisory and judiciary environment. The second peinm  to the
organizational structre of the financi system, the duality between the formal and
hnmal sectors and the lack of linges betwe  the two. Finally, the thd set of issues



GtL*= R wiald Sswr Opera*ion 
deals with problems faced by specific institutions, their financial position and irnal
orgizational weakesses. These three sets of issues are stngly interrelated. Past
experbince in Africa has demonstrat that all of the elem   must be addressed
simultaneously for financIl sector reform to be successful. The implementation of a
number of measures (including reinroducton of rere requements, liberalization of
the interest rate structue, the issuing of Treasury Bills, new pnudetial banking direcdves,
j"udicil reforms and restructuring of BIG and BIAG) during the prepaion of the
operadon clearly indicates the strong commitment of the Govement to the reform
program.
A. Reforuing the Environment
72.   To avoid repetition of the problems that beleaguered the barking system in the
late 1980s, the global environment must be improved. Specifically, strengthening the
environme nt involves: (a) developing indirect istuments of monetary and credit control;
(b) issuing: (i) a new Central Bank Act and a new Banking Law with accompanying
regulation; (ii) a new insurance law; and (iii) specific regulation pertning to mutual
savings and credit insitutions; (c) reinforcing the capacity of the Central Bank to conduct
monetary policy and regulate and supervise financial institutions (commercial bank,
insurce companies, savings and loan cooperatives); (d) studying ways to remove
disincetives to finanial intermediation introduced by the taxation system; and
(e) reforming the judiciary system through, inaia: (i) inoducing accelerated debt
recovery po sedur; (ii) establishing a modern land regisay and improving procedures to
file uar    ; (liii) upgrading the traning of judges and lawyers; and (iv) educatng the
general populton to respect contuats. Overall, a stable macroeconomic framnework mnst
be maintained. Public finances must be balnced to allow Government to meet its
obligtions. While there has been some slippage, Guinea is following the guidelines of an
IP progrm. The implementation of the measures presnted in tis section will beft
from the techmical support of several donors (the French, USAIID and CU)A) as discussed
in pars. 120.
73.   Monetary poicy. Govermment will coninue to move towards the developmen of
ind   methods of monetary control and market-detrmined interest rates. Ba  will be
encouraged to partcipate in the money market.
74.   BCRG is considing moving towards the introduction of open market operations.
To develop such capacity, BCRG will constitute a portfolio of Treasury BIls. I will be
prpared to add to this portfolo by purhaing securidties on the money maket whenever
it wihs to increase te money supply and lower interest rates and sell from is portfolio
when it wishes to pump liquidity out of the econom and raise interest rates.
75. - With the development of indirect instumen of monetary control, rfln Bcng will
lose its impormce. Commercial bans will have recourse to the Central Bank only as a
lenr Of lst resort tD cover some temporary shortfall in liquidity. With the development
of an auction market for Treuy Bils, Guinea is moving towards market detenation
of interest rates. However, the speed of such movement will depend on the progress
made in developing a true money market.



Gsbz Rwmciai Sctr Operton                                                  19
76.   Regao   of comn rd  banb and creditnew Ban
Law bas been approved and 1rotnmlgated.    tig prude  regulations have been
amnded to increase the minim capital fom its curet level of GNF 500 million to
GNF 2 billion and rvise the solvency and liquidity ratios. Moreover, a directive wil be
isued on loan classification and provisioning policy.
77.   All financial intitutons should be sub.ect to reguaion,       , 
Conveons d 'Etablssement, and appropriate measures should be taken by the Cental
Bank to enforce a rigorous compliance with the regulatios by all fiancial instituions
operatg in Guinea. A condion for second tranche release Is die submission of evide
to IDA ta the Central Bank has carred out a through control to ensre dtht al
inadal nsituaons comply with all pruden    regulations.
78.   Regulaton of isuawe compaes and CNSS. New isurance legislaton will
be prepared and promulgated with accompanying prudential regulations. The issues to be
addressed include: (a) extension of regulations to mtual insunce companes;
(b) technical reserves, investmens and admissible assets; (c) a schedule of claims
settlement ("bar6misation'); (d) arbitration procedures for the setement of claims;
(e) libealzing of automobile insurance premiums; () regulation of insuance
intmediaries and agents; and (D) new prudential reion for socia security
insiutios. Adoption of a regulaoryframework, safactory to IDA, to govern the
aetvits of insurance compaes and the establishmet ofprudtal reguion for  MS
Is a conditon for second tranche release.
79.   Relon of rural saviW  and ether mutusc InsItutloas. These
inuions should not escape regulation and supervision. However, care must be taken to
preserve their mutualisc grass roots character and not stfle their development. Many
rules that apply to commerci banks cannot apply to local units of Cr6dlt Rural ad
CrEi Mutuel (e.g: mimm  capital, liquidity and solvency ratios). However, the
system as a whole must mainta  solvency rules and needs access to Cenral Bank
refnancing on an emergency basis and in the normal course of business. (Such access
should only be given once the system has reached selfsustainability.) It also needs to
bave access to the money market. To meet the regulatory and operating needs of Crdi
Rurd and CrEdit Mutuel, a cealized unit in each group should play the role of central
banker to the local units (or to intrediary regional units). The central unit, an
emanation of the local uits, will submit consolidated finania staements on behalf of
the group and will be supervised by BCRG. In turn, these units will regulate and
supervise the local caisses. It would have to submit to pneal rqements for the
system as a whole. The new Bankinig Law will include special clauses for te
ns and specific relations will be issued. Adoptiu of a satsfactory regulory
franework to govern the actvites of mnuualstic   uions as a condition for second
t he release.
80.   Reguaon of fiacal markets. To provide a framework for the future
development of capit markets, reguaions will be inroduced for the iung and tradig
of securities and for securiti dealers. Adoption of a satfactory reg ory framrewo to
govern the acdvies offinania ma*s and securities' deales is a conditon for second
trnde reease.



Gubu FhnaNd &acor     .                                                   20
81.   SupervIson of conmal bauks and aedt                    Progrs has been
achieved in the supevision of banking esablin thanks to technica assite
proved by USAID. Further strthenig   f supervision will involve: (a) the
deveopmen of a uniom accounZt plan; (b) the prepation of a witten stmnt on
the divison of responsibilities between the Banking and nsection secos witn BCRG;
(c) the tainig   of staff in methods of bank suvision; (d) the developmet of an ealy
warning system; (e) the development of procedurs for the discussion of and follow-up on
inspecti reports; and (f) the preparaton of a procedures manual. Adopon of
ifa    proceduws and meae  so *nrease the Central Rnkas dfidency  its
suslron of cmmedal banks and Cr   eitab         s la condIdonfor second
trnche release.
82.   Squesi  of sua    compani. The section in hag o supervisig
insur    compames at BCRG will be strengthened by hirig an adviser to perform on-
the-job taing by conducting off- and oste supervsion of insurance companies with
existg staff. A uniform acunting plan for insurance companies will be devloped.
Whfle the Ministry of Adminis ve Reform will retain its uea     over CNSS, the
prudenta supervision of this institution should be entusted to a qualified agency,
pr tably he BCRG. Adopion of sasactory procedures and mees to Increase tde
Central ank's efficency in its suervision of iurance conanies is a conditonfor
second trandle rdease.
83.   Supervisio of mutuastic savings and m loan_dtufo. A unit needs to be
establshed withi the Cetal Bank to supevi Crddit Rural, Crit Mutuel and othr
nutualistic savins and loan institions. This unit shold remain lean and benefit from
tecical assistance. lhe creaon of a speca unit within e Ceral Bank to supevise
a iies of sangs and loan Iustion Is a conda for second rache relese.
84.            h the Central Bank capabIlI_es. Actons have or wil be ten on
Wvera fts: (a) a new Central Bank Act has been approved and pronulgated; (b) a
Board of Diectors has been appointed with powers and responsibiliies given to it by the
Centra Bank Legslion; (c) a fcional analysis will be conducted to detemne if the
current internal stuctue of the Central Bank is adequate to allow it to deficiy peform
its functions; the analysis houd also detemine the ihnks that should be establied
bdween the vanous divisions; (d) the functional analysis will pemi the elaboraion and
implementation of a co     n  progm; (e) the archive and    o    n  services
ill be   nd; (f) a new maeconomic unit will be estblished to monitor macro
and fnanci variables and implement monetary and interest rte policy; (g) training of
BCRG officers in macro-alysis, superision of fcial institutions, desig am
implementtion of monetay and nbterest rate policy, ad inevendtion in the money
markt will be given; (h) a back-up telon   system will offer geater
flexbt; and (i) a Legal Department with wel defined functions and rwonsilites Will
be established.
85.          bh1_ the Money and Credit Diviso of the Ministry of Ilnae. The
Division requi  a  btantia defort of cacity buidig to enable it to opere
efficiently. Adequate staffing wih ubsequet long- and short-tm traiing, as well a
serious effort in the provision of logistical support, includig office space are necessy.
Traiig will be given in macronomic analysis, baking techiques, autig



GQia Rbwa1* Stay 0Pecrn                                                    21
projects appraisal, financial analysis and mngeme,  supervision of fincial instutions
and formuon of monetay policy.
86.   TazaIn poli. Taxation refom is beyond the scope of this prqect. Howev,
a review of the taxation system will be carried out, in consuaon with the IMP, to
propose measu  to remove distortions in fiacial choices caused by the existing system.
In particular, the revew will consider meares designed to: (a) eliminate the finality in
witholing and make every tax withheld a refundable tax credit; (b) allow transactions
taxes paid on fiancial services to be credited against other production and transactions
taxes; (c) allow deduction of losses from one source of income from income from anoher
source; and (d) eliminate rem     tax exemptions of financW institutions to create a
level playing field in financial markes.
87.   JudIcial reforms. Preliminary steps have been tken to strengthen the judiciary
system. Two seminars were held in Conakry during 1992: (a) a round-table on the
judiciary environment of banking acties in January 1992; and (b) a round-table on the
role and place of justice in the development of Guinea in October 1992. The two round-
tables raied the level of awareness within the Goverment and the general public of the
potential contribution of the judiciary system to the development of the country and the
performance of the financial sector.
88.   Parts I, I and m of the Code of Economic Activities deal  with corporate and
bankruptcy laws have been completed. A compendium of legal texts was completed under
the second "Programme d'Aide a la Gestion Economique- (PAGEN) project (Cr. 1963-
GUI). A comprehensive database of laws was established as well, and is now fully
operational. However, lawyers and judges have limited access to these compilations,
since lack of finances prevents their publication or distrbution by the Ministry of Justke.
The Land Temre Code was enacted recenly, but the accompanyig decrees have not yet
bee enacted.
89.   Reorganization of the Office of the Clerk of the Court at the Cowut of Appeals in
Conakry has also begun. A disciplinary commission to review the professional condct of
members of the judiciary has been established within the Conseil Sup6rieur de la
Magtrare. The Supreme Court has begu to review judgements rendered by lower-
level junsdictions. The reglatng effect of Supreme Court reviews should begin to be
felt amongst lower-level jurisdictions, who will exercise more care in rendering thei
decisions. Upgrading trainig for judges and lawyers is underway. USAID has been
providing finamcial assisance to train a small number of judges abroad. In addition, a
judicial training center has been renovated, with French assistance, which will also be
used to educate maiates. This Center will provide contning legal education for all
members of the judiciary icluing lawyers in private practice.
90.   Some positive results from these efforts are already being felt by commcial
bans. Igl decisions are beig taken with greater objecuvity and fairness.
Pu     e, eecution of the decisions has improved. But this is only a begining.
Further senhen  will require dealig with legal codification, the delivery and
imple ton of court decisions, the contined training for judges and lawyers and a
program of dise        of the lws aimed at econmic operators and cial
institutions' officers.



Qdnea F5wiat Secor Opeatn                                                  22
91. With respect to legal codification, the following actions are needed: (a) completion
of Paut IV of the Code of Economic Activities; (b) inoduction of accelated loan
recovery procedures, (a condionfor second tranche release); (c) amendmen  to the
Civil Code for the temporary freezing of asset (saiie consevatoire) and quick execution
of judgements (ex6cution provisoire) to  sure that colateral and other assets are not
dissipated before a find judgemnt is rendered, (a conditon for second twache redease);
(d) estabHment of a modem land registry; (e) development of procedures for rgitern
collateral; and (t) elimination of the "caution adjudicaum solvi" provided under artie 74
of the *Code de PrcMr CGie et Commeackie".
92.   To improve the fimctioning of the judicial system, the following measures will be
taken to ensure speedy delivery, transparency and enorcement of court decisions:
(a) publication of a schedule of regar court fees (a conditonfor second tranche
release); (b) publication of court decisions to provide a record of decisions to ensure that
they are in accordance with existng laws (a contfon  r second tranche release);
(c) creation of a specialized hbrary; (d) reform of the bailiff and sheriff's deputies system;
and (e) strengthening of the Office of the Clerk of the Court at the Court of Appeals in
Conakry (including computerization).
93.   Trining of judges in financal mars, incudig financial conts, the
operadons of bans and insurme companies, and the role of collateral, needs to be
Improved. Measures will be taken to ensure that the code of judicial conduct is
effectively adhered to. Seminars on legal ethics will offier practical insight on how to
approach relevant ethical issues. To monitor and redress the behavior of lawyers who
willfllly obstruct or delay the judicial process, the "coneil de l'ordre' (bar associations
discipary committee) needs to be strengthened. Means will be provided to the
Inspcton Departent within the Ministy of Justice to improve the performance of its
supervision and monitoring functions. Within budgetary consaints, salaries of
magist     will be raised. These masures will also help to reduce corruption.
94.   The noncalance with which cotacts aTe treated in Guinea should be curbed over
time. This will be achieved through a progrm of issemination of laws to educae
en reneurs about the value of contracts. The pro    would inform entrepreneurs,
through the media, about the elements and the formation of contts (condton for
second tranche release). I might also be effective to "humize" financial insttutions
through a campaig  to impress upon debtors that these institutions are comprised of the
savings and capital of their fellow ciizens and to convey the sense that failing to pay
one's fianca obligations hurts in a direct way all Guineans.
B. ReformIng the Strctwe o the Flnancal Secor
95.   The above-mentioned reforms wil conribute to increase the business of formal
fmicial institutions. More fidamentl changes in the stucture of the financial sector
are also needed to develop the formal financi sector and diversify the services it offers
to borrowers and savers alike. The development of a money market (a Treay Bills
auction market to be followed by an interbank market) will provide ban  with an outlet
for their excess liquidity and an indication of a market interest rate. Furter measures
will be taken to channel some of the freign exchange acrently tasacted on the informal
market to the banking system. The development of mutual savigs and loan instutons,



C 'wr F-nwiat Swm Op,                                    Lon              23
building upon the existng Cr6dit Rural and Cr6dit Mutel will provide a vita link*
betwoen the formal and infomal sectors. A Study and Technical Assistance Fund wil
assist busesses in seu    financing for their projects.
96.   Developnt of a money market. Since June 1993, there have been regular
monthy isse of Govemment Treasury Bills. The launching of a Treasury Bills aucti
market took place in Decembe 1993 (para. 16). The isuing of Treasury Bigls iS seen as
a tool of monetary management rather than an intrment to meet Govement financing
requiremen. (Governmet borrowing will coniue to be limited by the oveal budgety
program.) Proedures have been put into place to ensure transparency and credibility -of
the system. The Central Bank wll submit a reserve bid and will constitute a portfolio of
Treury Bills. Bids from buinesses and individuals wWi be channelled through
commercial banks which will receive the status of primuary deaers in the money muaket.
The baniing law authorizes banks to buy and sell securities, but BCRG will need to issue
diectves specifying the role of primary (seurities) dealers, their responsibilities and the
pudental rules they must follow.
97.   With time, deepening of the monqy market will entail: (a) the developm  of a
active seonary market where financ  insdtutions, business  and idduals would buy
or sel seurities between regular auctions; and (b) the introduction of new instrme
suh as short-tm certificates issued by commercial bans.
98.   Development of fori  cuey t actie  wihn the fomal sector.
Measures have been taken to ease regulation of foreign exchange a saction to boost the
foreig currency busiess of the formal sector. An ordinance has been issued authorizmg
the establisment of private foreign exchange bureaus. So far, four such bueaus have
been opened. These bureaus, although under the formal r ation of the BCRG, have
relatively free reign to buy and sell foreign exchange. Further liberalization would brig
back a great deal of acdvity into the fonmal banking sector. This will be achieved by:
(a) aRlowing individuals and businesses to hold foreign denomiated deposs at
commercial bank; 0b) reducing the costs attuaed to foreign excbange trasactions; and
(c) developing an inter-bank foreign exchange market where rates on foreig curency wi
be determined by the interplay of demand and supply rather than administratively set by
he Cfmra Bank. In time, this actvty will generate more traditionad bankng busies.
99.   Stn       _  saving and loan _nstions. Savings and loan institutions
operatng on a mutualistic basis could provide a vital link between the formal and
inforal finamcial sectors and contribute to boost the activity of the formal banking sector.
Me low level nf M2/GDP noted in para 4 reflects more problems on the supply side
(despite the reltive large number of banks) than a low demand for financial services.
Commrcial bAnks are unable and unwilling to mobilize resres to meet the demand for
credit. They are hampeed by the lack of infrasuc    (roads, electricity,
communications systems), manpower and knowledge of the milieu, and thus have Little or
no penetrtion  nrural areas. Interaction with smaUer customers is limited by high costs
and high perceived risks. As a result of this unavalility of credit, indiviuals and
private entrrepurs have tumed to the informal sector where some faster, cheape and
more readily available financial services are found. They, however, canmot be fiuly
satsfied as financial semces offered by operators i the i;nmd sector are limited.



Gdn  FinW  &ctr OpeAt*.                                                    24
100.  The proposed linkage between the formal and iformal sectos woud contibute to
reducimg commercial banks' traction costs and perceived risks of dealing with small
depositors and borrowers, particularly women and smal entrepreneurs. It would provide
important support in the fight against poverty and boost the level of activity of
commercial banks. If the ratio of M2/GDP were 23 percen, the average for Sub-Sahara
Africa, instead of the curremnt 7 percent, and the currency/M2 ratio the average 30 percent
instead of the actual 47.7 percent, commercial bank assets could reach GNP 550 billion, a
100 percent increase from their current level. The net banking product would almost
quadruple, assumi  unchanged bank margins, and the ratio of operating expenses/net
baning product would fall to a respectable 50 percent from its current high level, maing
the banking system more efficient and viable in the long run.
101.  Systems of grss-root savings and credit coopatives, owned by their members,
wil be comprised of local units and a central unit. The locd wuit will have a lean
strucure, collect local savings and extend small loans to individuals withi a group of five
to ten people that are co-responsible for timely repayment. The local unit will be the base
of the system and be totaly immersed in the commuity with a sound knowledge of its
members. The cetral uit will play the role of coordinator and Central Bank to the
local units. It will receive deposits from and extend credit to local units; it will also
reglate the units and supervise their operations; it will provide technical support in areas
raning from credit analysis and loan monitoring to accounting and bookkeeping, to name
but a few. The cetal unit will, in tum, be affiliated with a commercial bank where it
would keep its liquidity and from which it wil obtain short- and possibly mem-term
nancing. By dealing with central units ratier than with a large number of small
borrowers and depositors, costs and risks to commerial banks will be lowered and an
mcrease in their activity wi1l folow.
102. A first step in developing networks of grass-root savings and loan institutions is to
stegthen Cr6dit Rural and CrEdit Mutuel. Both groups have plans to open new local
units. Such a system also needs to be developed in Conakry. However, the clientele in
Conakry presents different characteristics and risks from those in rural areas. To isolate
Crdit Mutuel and Cr6dit Ruial from the rsks of the developmen of urban savings and
loan cooperatives in Conakry, an independent project will be launched in that city. The
"Caisses d'Epargne et de CrEdit de Conalay (CECC) will be sponsored by an
interational operator. After severa years, it could be merged with Crdit Mutuel or
CrEdit Rural. CICM, the sponsor of Cr6dit Mutuel, IRAM, the sponsor of Cr6dit Rur
and Caisse Desjardims of Canada have expresed a wllngness to launch a pilot project in
Conary. The project will establish four local caisses. Govement has committed itself
to provide a US$2 million grant for the start-up costs in plant and equipment and
conltant services. The CECC will remain fuly privately-owned and privately-managed.
A daft strategic plan for the deweopment of rral and urban mutlstic iwtittons is a
condition for second tranche release.
103.  Deveopment ef  uanae Int         ediaries and agets. The market for insurance
products (in the formal and informal sectors) will be expanded by the establishment of
insurance intermediaries and agents to sell the various products on a commission basis.
104.  Support   _        . Part of the difficulties fkcad by finanial instiuons
originatsm i the private sector which is populated by poorly trained business people who



Guinea Fwcial &Sawr Operadon                                             25
lack rudimentary knowledge of accouning and planning. Costs of processing loans and
risks perceived by commercia bank and mutualistic institutions would be lower if small
and micro-borrowers presented better credit applications, developed a credible business
plan for their operation and dealt with their banker in an open and professional fashion
once the credit has been extended. This is the objective of the Study and Technical
Assistnce Fund currently being establh  by BCRG with PPF financing under this
proposed project and which will be managed by a small unit composed of representatives
from the BCRG, commercial banks and Office de Promotion des Investissements Priv6s
(OPiP).
C. nttional Res            and Building
105.  Commerdal banks. A weak human resource base is tie main nonfinancial
problem fainCg commercial ban. An extensive trainig progr  is needed to raise the
skill level of bank employees. Costs of this program should be shared between
Govemment and commercial bank. Trainmg of entrepreneurs, particularly in accountg
methods, is also needed.
106.  Interal strgthening is required in many commercia banks. In the last two
years, corrective measures have been taken: senior management has been changed; the
credit granting system has been improved and monitoring systems and recovery units
established. BCRG will ensure that intemal control is strengthened.
107.  Govemment will reduce its presence in the capital of commercial banks. It
currently participates in the capital of BIAG (51%), BICIGUI (51 %) and BPMG (30%).
For banks that need restrucring, Government disengaement will take place during the
recapitalization of the institution. For the others, consideration may be given for
Government to seU its shares at an appropriate time. Government and BCRG officials are
witdrawing from managerial positions in commercial banks. Goverment will devise
m-echaniss Sand establish a calendar acceptable to IDA for reducing its participation in
the capital of all financial institutions and will undertake the first measures before
dibursement of the second tranche.
108.  Two banks (BIG and BIAG) required special attention as they were technically
bankrupt. During project praration, negotations untaken with DM1 Trst, the major
sbareholder in BIG, led to a restucturing agreement. DM1 and the Government shared
the absorption of past losses (the Govermment substituted for private Guineans who did
not participate in the effort). The substitution of Government for private Guien should
not be miscoued as a Government bailout. Govemment participation is in the form of
a subordiated loan that will be repaid over a three-year period out of recoveries. In the
event of insufficient recoveries, part of the loan wfll be written off. (As 50% of
recoveries go to DM1, the majority shareholder and 50% to Government. There is thus
an incentive for the sbareholders to actively pursue delinquent borrowers.) Goverment
did not participate in the recapitalization of BIG, thus the bank will remain flly-privately
owned. Financial resuctuing of BIG was completed in October 1993. Senior
management has been changed. Internal procedures are being strengthened, operating
expenses reduced and recovery efforts increased.



Gtw Rnw dSor wOperto                                                       26
109.  Similar negotadons with Mridien, the reference partner in BIAG, were not
successful, despite a preliminary agreement signed with the President of the Group.
BIAG has been placed under inwim administion. The Governm   has abobed past
losses and reapitalized the bank to the minimu  requied through the extension of a
subordinted loan. In both cases, BIG and BIAG, Goverment outlays have been
included m the 1993 budget. Four offrs to purchase BIAG from prvate banks have been
presented to the Government.
110.  Insurance companis. BCRG wi}l ensure   t insurance companies meet
pudenal requements and diswss the injection of fimds with private partners where
needed. SONAG needs an injection of about GNF 1 billion of capital. It is currently
fully privately owned and Govement should not be involved in its recapitalization.
111.  The dialogue with CNSS and the Miisatry of Administaive Reform has been
very difficult. To put this institution, which collects a large amount of forced savings
(approximately 20% of total salaries), back on track would require new legislation,
suervision by an apropriate agency, development of an adequae acunting system, an
operational and financal audit (funds are paid into the social seacty system with no
aprent tracking of the disbursement of the money) and a review of its areas of
intervention to eliminate its monopoly in the health and pension sectors. As a first step
Governmuent will introduce adequate prudenal regulatiDons and supervision as noted in
pag. 78.
112.  Cr(it Rural and Crdit Mutuel have reacbed a size where they need to be
transformed from projects into full-fledged financi institutions with a central unit
offering central bank, supervision and administrative faciLities to the local caises (CrEdit
Rua has 19 local caisses and 18 offices throughout the country and CrEdit Mutuel has 30
local caisses, and both are preparing plans for further expansion as noted in para. 102).
D. Technical Assstance
113. To assist authorities in implementing the broad range of reforms aimed at
sbtrnthening the environment and insdtutionbulding, techical assistance is needed.
Guinea lacks the infrastue& (telecommuications, computers, libraries) and adequately
traid people (managers, judges, lawyers, accounta) to effectively carry out the
proposed financial sector program alone. The proposed technical assistance will be
primarily in the form of intm , timely interventions to maximize the transfer of
slls and technology. Exreptions are lega residet ewperts at BCRG and the Ministy of
Justice. When technical assiste tak  the form of finaning the purchase of eqipfme,
care will be taoen to develop mainten     skills and capabilities locally. When new
systems are put into place (e.g. maroeconomic cell within BCRG or open market
opeations), the consultants will ensure that local autrities and experts understand the
rationale for itroding these systems and are adequately trained. Tecical assistance is
needed to: (a) install a back-up telecommunication system; (b) computerize financial
insti ns; (c) develop legislation and reguion of financial institutions; (d) reiforce the
judir apparatus; (e) strengen the capacity of the BCRG to conduct monetary policy
and suPerse  financial institutions; and (f) train BCRO, Miistry of Finance, Ministy of
Justice and financid istions' officials. IDA will pvAde close to 200 person/months
(US$5 million) of prrly short-rm techJical assiste. Temns of referece for all
tecical assistance have been aeed upon during negotiations. Qualified local staff wil



be wrking with exat  experts. Amuex  presents, in detail, the technical assistance
cmponent of the Credit, includig manower/cost esmates and perfmance
PART V. T1E OPERATION
.A. Amount and Timing
114.  The operaon will support the Goverment's reform program in the financial
sectr, as outined above. It will provide a total credit of SDR 16.3 million (US$23
million equivalent) conistng of an adjustme  credit of SDR 12.8 million (US$18.0
million equiva) and a tchnical assistance compont of SDR 3.5 mllion (US$5.0
million equivalent). The adjustme  part of the Credit wil be disbursed in two tranches
over a 24-month period. Adjustment funds wil be disbursed aginst eligible import
invoices, following the Bank's usual guidelines with respect to pr nt and
doumentation, and provided that the reform program is on track and specffic
conditionalities for tranche release have been met. Funds to support technical assisunce
will be disbursed as the need arises and in accordance with IDA procedures. The
Borrower will be the Goverment of Guinea.
IL              MoUntorig and Repog
115.  Lt   f Sector DeVo         Pt ly and Plicy Matrix. The Govenment of
Guinea has submitted to IDA a Letter of Fmancal Sector Development Policy atache as
Annexm, and a comprehensive policy matrix further confirming its strong commiment
to the reform program. Condios for second tanche release are presented below and in
the Policy Matrix attached as AnnexI.
116.    1     _    of the Second Trache is dependet uponm the following measures
being tkn in a manner satisfactory to IDA:
1.    A satiactory              framework is maintined.
2.    A reuatory framework safactory to the Association, has bee enaced
to gover the actvities of insurance compaies, savigs and loan
institutions and financial market operaions (paras. 78-80).
3.    Prudential regaions and  propriate surveilance        reimc  lated
thereto have been enacted for the socia seurity company (ara. 78)
4.    The Cenr Bank has: (a) established procedum   satisactory to the
Associaon to carry out an effective and efficient supervision of all
financial instions under its jursdicn (paras. 81482); and
(b) established an appropriat mechanism to supervise the activities of
saving and loan institutions (pa. 83).



QCbt Fdglw  Saow (,M*$                                                   28
S.    Rules of procedres satisfactory to the Asociation have been established
to failitate loan recovery (pam. 91).
6. A media campaign to educate the public on the functioning of the judicidal
system and dissmia informadon peraning to the rules of proedur
refered to in the above condition (0S) has been carried out (par. 92).
7.    A schedule of fees to be levied by courts and tribunals for registration and
processing of judicial claims has been published (para. 92).
8.    A judicial gazette has been established to ensure a regular publication of
decisions of the couts and tribunals of Guinea (pari. 92).
9.    An action plan satisfactory to the Ascition has been adopted to epad
mutual credit and rural credit opeao  and to launch a savings bank
pilot shem  in Conakry (pars. 102).
10.   Approprie m     i       and a realistic calendar aceptable to the
Associtm have been adopted to reduce the Borrower's sare in the
capital stock of financial istituons, and the said reduction has been
undetaken in accordace with the calendar refed to above (para. 107).
117.  I    nt    uio S. The operation has been designed to clearly define
modntorable actons. Processming of the proposed credit will depend upon satsfactory
progrs in the implementtion of the reform progrm oulied in the lwter of Fiancial
Sector Devlopmt Policy and the Policy Matrx. The BCRG, Minisay of Finance and
Ministry of Justice will have rsponsbility for overseeing the Imple on of their
rspectve components of the fiancial sector operation, while BCRG wfll be solely
res    le for the   i       relating to the austment compone. A   steern
coie corid of                     from BCRG, the Ministry of Fhce and the
Ministry of Justice wil coordiate individual efforts and oversee the imple mnaIon Of
te ovrl program. In addition, sice many donors are involved in the funding and
deivwry of nvmy of the technic  assice components, an winfornna conultave
cmin tee' will be established to monior the progress of the overall progrm on a
regular basis and make necessry modifications to the technical assistance program  This
commitee will be comprised of numbers of the steering committee" and repReatives
fom each of the donors involved. Assurances were obtaned that the steering committee
wil be established and thereafter n  during the execution of the Progrm.
118.  Pollowing the dsbuement of the first trsnche of the proposed operation, the
Govermment will submit to IDA a report evaluaing progress made in the mplementatio
of the Program. T    report will serve as a basis for the release of the second tranche.
ITe Goverment will submit to IDA a final report on the proam's imp  on upon
ful     _     of the Credit.
119.  Cwt the IS   and IEFC. The finnci sector operation has been
devrdoped in close collaboraion withe IMP. In paicular, Bank and IMP staff bave
workd closely together on isses pertaiing to monetary and fiscal policy and bank
. The program for instonbuildn presed in this report, has been



adn Fuwcad Sector Operadon                                               29
devised with IMP agreement and is an essential complement to the IMP program
negotiated with Gunean authorities. Some measures implemented during the prepration
of the operation were preconditions for the IMF program. [PC has been actvely
consulted on maners relating to the restrucrg of BIG and BIAG.
120.  Cwoord Ion with Other Donors. The progrm has been developed in close
collaboration with the other donors including: CFD, the French Ministry of Cooperation,
USAID and CIDA, who have indicated their intention to paricite in supplementary
paralle fnancing of technical assistance for a totl amount of about US$3.0 million. In
particulr, USAID will provide support to the BCRG in stengthening bank and insurance
supervision, installig a back-up telec ications system, performing a system
analysis and computerization. Canadian CIDA will support the establishment of a
macroeconomic unit. The French will continue their support in the development of the
savis and loan institutions, the asssme  of traing needs ad t    ntation of
training programs. Amex 11 presents, in detail, the participation of donors in the
technical assisuce component.
PART VI. BENEFITS AND RIS
121.  Benefits. An efficient financial sector will contnbute to the implemention of an
effective moetary and credit policy and to the stability and growth of the Gunean
economy. In particular, the movement towards market determined rates in the contet of
a solvent and efficient financial sector will augment domestic resource mobilizadon and
contibute to the development of economic activity.
122. The financial sector reform program will facilitate the development of the private
sector and the privatization of public en rse. By developing institutions such as
CrEdit Rural ad CrEdit Mutuel, the program will provide greater access to finance for
women and owners of small businesses, and contribute to poverty alleviation. Since this
would help eliminate distortions in access to credit among the poor, this operation is
classified as a poverty-focused SECAL. All sectors of economic activity will beefit fiom
financial sector reform. It is expected that s  the Guinean financial sector will
bring about an increase in productive activity, as noted in para. 23.
123.  The reform program places great emphasis on govene and institution building.
Through this project IDA will support the rehabilitation of the judicial system, particularly
with respect to the enforcement of financial onacts. Technical assistance will focus on
nstitutional st theng at the BCRG, the Miistry of Finace and commercial banks.
124. The program also emphasizes on capacity buflding. It puts a high priority on
trang BCRG, Ministry of Finance and commercial bank staff. It also proviles for
tramiing of small entrnes  tough the Study and Technical Assistance Fund. It wil
contibute to the education of the general population, through Credit Mutuel, Cr6dit Rural
and Caisses d'Epargne et de Cr6dit de Conalry. Training will also be provided to judges
and practicing lawyers.
125.  Project      Iy. The project builds on extensive sector work and less
of past experience. It takes into accomt culunA and sociological reaties. The progrm



kduaw rawwfal Stewt Op*radio                                              30
bas beean desied and tus internalized by Governmet. Finaly, it is a ptogrm that
blends Bank policy with the knowledge nd exence from the field. It follows OD
8.30 while at the same time reiecting the cultral and sociological realities of the country
and the desires of the authorities.
126.  Rbs. Risk can be found in several areas. Deterioration of the macroeconomic
uation and public finnces may have a negative impact on financial instiutions. To
prvent this from happening, a large pat of the credit is contingent on the development
and maiunance of a stable mi framework. Coninuing dialogue between
Guinean authorities, the Bank and the IMP, in the context of an active Fund proram,
wfll minimize the risks of deterioration of the macroeconomic situation. Further risks are
reated to the capacity of Govermnent to implement this progrm. The techniCal
assistance component which focuses on skdlls transfers has been designed to deal with this
potendal problem.
PART VII. IPROCUREMEI, DISBURSEENT AND ADMINISTRATION
127.  P.  Credit proceeds will finance 100% of eligible imports by both
the private and public sectors. All public and private sector imports will qualify for
financing except for: (a) a negative list including miary and luxury counsuer goods
(a detiled list is provided in the Developmen Credit Aemet, Schedle 1) and
(b) imports of less than $5,000 per contract. All imports are subject to preshipme
inspection carried out by a Veialized ispection agency. Eligible imports will be subject
to smplified hIrnational Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures for amounts exceeding
US$2 million equivalent. For lesser amounts: (a) imports by private entities will follow
established noml conmercial practices, provided that, to the extent practicable,
qwtaions are obtained fom eligible suppliers from at least two differ  counties; and
(b) im   by the public sector will be in accordance with normal Govenment
proceres. These procedm    have been found satsbctory. The amount of financing
allocated for petroleum and foodst, is limbed to 50%. The Borrower will funish to
the Association, prior to the submission of the related withdrawal applications from the
Credit, such do     n and information as the Association may reasonably request to
support the withdrawal of funds from the Credit Accoumt in respect of such coracts,
incxludig, in the case of constrc awarded after simplified ICB, copies of contacts
together with the analysis of the respective bids and recomnendations for award and a
description of the advertizg and tendering procedure.
128.   DTh. Ne credit will be disbursed over a two-year period. The
adjustme  compone  will be disbmused in two tranches of US$9.0 million each. The
first tranche will become available upon credit effectiveness expect in the third quarter
of 1994 and the second tmanche upon flfillment of the specific conditions for second
tranche release. Dibursemen  will be made aga  receipts for imports not conan
in a neguive list. The BCRG wfll be responsible for the collection of documents and the
prepartion of withdrawal applications. Withdrawal applications shall, to the extent
Pmeavvmu, _ dbd_asenx ad managemnth for t  techi  asisae conam ae dicussed
in Annx L



asdnee I~bzAnciel Sdecto Opmuiim                                          31
practicable, be conolidated to apply for the bwhdrawal of aggegae amounts of not less
than US$1 million equivalent. Retoctve fiacing wil be allowed for expendie
Incurred after Jun 30, 1994 up to an aggregateaount of US$4,600,000. lte propo
Credit will be disbursed on the basi of flly domene w ihd   aPplicato  except
for expditures against contacts costing leas than US$500,000 equivalent which would
be made against statemen of expenditus. In this instance, documents ae to be retaind
by the Borrower for examination by Bank missions and audtors. Fully document
widrwal applications will include a purhase order or contract, an invoice, and
evidence of receipt of goods and paynt. The nature and origin of the goods as well as
the payment date wHi be indicated on the SOis. The Government will undeke to make
milable the eqivalent of US$2 million to finane the invesmet needs and the fis two
years costs of opemion of the Caisse d&Epargne et de Cr&dit de Conakry. The tehcal
assistance compent diss           will be made against bills for the purcbse of goods
and sevice under cors that have been preproved by IDA as disssed in AnnexI.
A mid-term review will be conducted by April 30, 1995 to assess the effecdveness of
technical assistance provided and implement changes if necessay.
129.  Accounts and Audits. The Cental Bank will be responsible for collectig the
supporting documentation (copies of the invoices and edce of sthim  and payment),
for prepwaing w ithwal applcations and will maintain records of all transactions under
the proposed Credit in accordance with sound accuing prnciples. An aui rtx,-,rt,
confring to internionally accepted standards and prepared by ind dt auditors
acceptable to IDA, will be submilted within six months after the end of each fiscal year of
the Goverment. The audit report will include a separate opinion on the disburseme
made unaer the SOE pedure.
PART VII. BANK GROUP OPIRATONS IN GUAINE
130.  The Bank Group has suported the Govrnme's   m onomic and key
dewvopm  objecdves ffrough structurl adjustm   operations and project lending. The
IMF, France, the Unied States, the European Union and Aftican Development Bank have
also provided assistance. Over the 1985-93 period, IDA lending amounted to SDR 639
million, for a total of 27 credits. The portfolio is dibued as follows: 25% for policy-
based adjustm  operations; 44% for conomic infructure, a large part of which was
for road infrastructe; 19% for agriculture; 8% for human resources; and 4% for
techical assisuce. Ten credis have been fuly disbed and are formally closed.
Seventeen operadons are under exeudon. IFC has supported mining, bankdng, and
reseach and development. Loan and equity         curemntly held by IPC tota
US$8 mion. Two projects, including one in torism and another in mag
ttalling US$5.9 million have been apved but no disbed. A statementof Bank
Group and IFC operns in Guinea is prented in Amex
131. Performance under structural adjustment bas been satisfactory, although the
implementation pace has varied. The Govenment has imple_mentd broad policy changes
involving monetary and exchange rate mangement, inrduced real positive interest rates,
established a uniform tariff of 10% for most goods, eliminat  import licensing
pcedues, and improved control over public fines. Key objectives of the
Govnme's structu  reform have been (a) ioving finanal teediai



Guinea FPanl &Stor OpeM                                                  32
(b) disengaging the stat" 'am commercial activities; (c) improving civil service
management; (d) giving greater atention to hmn resource needs; and (e) shifting public
expenditure toward economic ad socia improvement. Many of these objectives were
met; State bank were liquidated and replaced with new foreip-owned baks (pam. 3), a
large mmber of state enterprises were liquidated or privatized, and the reform of the civil
service was initiatedWih a reduction of 40% in the toal number of civil servants. In the
context of a restructued public investment program, greater priotity was given to
expenditure for social seices.
132.  Beginning in 1988, important efforts at instittionoa reform wer initiated with
support from IDA and the inrnal commnity. The capacity to produce economic
statistics and forecasting, to prepare and utilize the budget was reinforced at the Mnstiy
of Plan and Finance. Two freestanding technical assistance opatons  ppored the
Goverment in inroducing new procurement, abor, land and commei codes.
Enterprise resation was simplified. Moreover, a one-stop window was established for
expeditious approval of new investment; a lean private investene promotion bureau OPIP
became operational; the Chamber of Commerce was given greater autonoy under private
sector leadership; and mining and trading of diamonds were liberaized in April 1992.
Nevertheless, despite the adoption of a privatization law, Governent delayed actions to
privatize or restructure the larger, ineficient public entprse with the correspondig
negative impact on the public budget, and reduced effectiveness in infiastuce services.
Government has recently completed aragements to introhduce private management of
power distribudon, and intends to privatize the telecommuications sector and Air Guinea.
Two other transport enterpries, SOGUITRO and SOGETRAG shod be privatized or
liquidated. As an initial step, Goverment has begum restucturing SOGETRAG.
133.  A Country Assistance Sty    (CAS) was reviewed and approved by the Board
(as part of the Health and Nutrition Sector Project) on March 1, 1994. A Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) has been circated in the last few days. IDA's srategy will
continue to support the Governme's objectives, which seeks to intensify the change in
economic manageent initated in 1986 in support of sustinable development.
Macoeconomic managen  issues will remain in the forefront and will require coninued
focus on domestic resource mobilization and measures to improve tax collection. A
fundamental redefinition of the roles of the private and public sectors, strict adhere  to
tight fiscal discipline, and a substani reduction in regulatory and legal pinpedimet to
economic activity (partcularly in mining and agricuture) are crucial for private sector-led
growth. Specific ation is being given to improvements in the  amest of the
financial system, coninud rehabilitation of economic i   investment in the
delivery of social services, and improvemens in the coutry's capacity to manage the
natural resource base and the enviroment.
134. This Financial Sector Operation is one of three adjustment operations proposed in
the CAS. A third macroeconomic adjustment operation is planed for FY95, and an
agricultural sector adjustment operation is planned for PY96. Project lending is plamed
to coniue IDA's involvement in infrasuc    rehabilitation and expasion (roads,
power, ports), and poverty and human resources. Future lending will also target naural
resource management and the envirownm .



Cub= hiw4iad  &W Opffale                                                    33
135.  Apt from improving the ove!' ionty envomet ad CerBalank
fumtos, the finaal sector operaton Is conidered one of the key elements of the new
atne stategy in tem  of Its contribtion to finacal sector    _
impwrvements in financial ieediation and the overa legal envomt for nomal
busie_  transactions. Its support to pa  sector developme  by providing adeqe
credh istr      is of parmount importance. The proposed operat  folows on the
footsteps of the program  uche under the PAGEN (Cr. 1963-GUI) and the PSPP (Cr.
214&-GUI) to reform the ovel busines envionmet, includig  uegtheng the
judici apparatus. It takes stock of some of the important lessons from prevous
operations that: (a) the montary, leg, supervisory, and judia envioment ms he
right for financial sector rerm to succeed; (b) the trasfr of skis should be enhnced
by a consciet     selection of countpas who need to be trained to    a sysemaized
proam; and (c) the intervention of severa donors with divergent Ideas requires twel
coordinated effort.
PART IXL RECOMMNDATION
136. 1 am satidsfied that the proposed Credit woult comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Asociation and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the
proposed Credit.
Wasohiton, D.C.                                       Lewis T. Prsn
August 31, 1994                                              President
Attachent



ANNEX I
Gdaue Fl ida &avr pwda                                             35-
Tle 1: Cumuuda BM  Grwth In DemutIc Cwzuv  DepolI ad IAa
1966  1967  198  196   1990   11   19
GNF bllions     11.7   23.1  34.9  52.5   64.9  75.8  109.7
(% incre  i real        64.0  25.0  24.4    4.3  -3.0   483
L_ Z
GNF billions      8.8   23.4  38.2  51.0   56.4  71.5   82.0
% increse in real
terms)           132.0  36.9   7.5  -16.5   7.8   17.5
S&: BDRG



-i* i4   I  lf agt;1i I@1f|6 
Fl~~~~ 3532f   -              t   I  1   
III  |!ff  liii 0I  I   if   EEI |. -||     
sI :i   s  fffB   eegI%gE14f8    ffi
&1    1~I                           IIIl
&~~~~~~~' U0!i0E{1lliXX411102!



ANNEX I
Gb.a Elada &cm  o                                                                                    37
Tale 2:   ey            con ic ndicaton  (cont)
1992  1953       1594is    159      1596      199      159      199       200
BAANCE OF PAYMNS (U8 .M
E ew ofONP9                                   6m41        654.6      6103      715.0    793.8    878.l    9553    1121.9   11956
Crat                                         628         47.5       4a6       50.2      51.1     513       52.9     53.7     546
M4rbad(FOB)                                  613         607.1      561.7    664.8    742.7    826.2    902.4   106.2   1141.0
ofNFS                                         g8          87gm5      82.2    9064       9S9.1   1031.6   1107.0    197.0   1286
Minin C                                      49.4        Ms         45.8      50.7      50.6     53.0      534      559      573
PIP                                          19.3        20.1       20.5      22.8      25.3     27.7      31.4     33.0     34.7
DNW                                          6d9         673        72.2      773       S22      87.       93.0     989     105.2
MaebwAise(FOS)                               739.        730.0      687.7    755.7    100.8    863.5    929.1   10092    1089.4
Raw=bslan                                    .1933       421.9      .21$3    .191t    .1653    .153.3   -151.7    .75.1    .91.0
Na Facor PN   us                              145.4       1223       123.1    137.0    161.8    169.5    17119    203.0    208.4
o eflWhihestp*mu                              69.3        67.9       74.4      30.0      14.8     83.8      87.2     19.4     90.8
PrvatTratt                                    -63.5       *52.3      -35.0     36.3      36.8   .d6.6       44.1    .40.8    .423
Cur. A/C Bel beW Of TeOuT                    406         .396.6     473.9   4364.9   -364.0   -359.6    474.7   -31.9   .341.6
O"l Trafm                                    135.6       117.9       131.2    167.2    161.8    1743       180.5    1803     190.6
Cuw A/C B  AfterOcAl Tramfs                 .27.0       .274       .242.7   .197.7   -202.2   -1S53    .194.2   .1316    -151.0
POijeclu .stm.,l.                             116         13.8       23.9      22.2      25.5     26.7     27.2      29.9     32.9
Coped Movamntsof&LTLows(not)                  144.0       1733        39.1    123.9    137.2    175.       1943    154.2    162.2
:otfmchOfbial                                  60.6       100.6       10.      101.5     28.s    155.7    181.0    127.1    126.2
:OfwbichPivae                                  83.4       72.7        28.6      22.4      14       19.8     133      27.1      36.0
OdwompWawtclu&gamumaudom _am)                  2a0         782        493       38.5     41.8      22.0     11.0      11.0    1ll0
bfinmuetswves                                  -3.3      .493         103       6.9      .2.4    .36.7      38.2    -56.       55.1
GroatRmeracuuamuis ofimpala                     2.5         3.1        33        3.4      3.4       3.5      3.6      3.8       3.7
ExLv  a%ofoDP                               23.00%      20.65%     17.89%   19.09%    19.46%   19.75%    19.69%   21.196  20.68%
lWwu=%Qf DP                                  29.%        27.6%      24.2%    24.2%    23.5%    23.2%    22.8%    22.6%    22.3%
R3.meBala=a%ofQDP                            .6.5%       -7.0%      .6.3%     -5.1%    .4.1%      .3.5%    43.1%    .1.4%    -1.6%
(MP (Mill 8 at -  antapnuPc                2974.17     3170.31    3410.46  3745.03  407867  4446.05  48SO8   529528  5-7S.41
RL LAXUAL GROWMH RATES
m.rbandEoa                                 .17.70%      -2.30%      -7.0%    1840%    11.70%   1120%    9.20%   1S.40%    6.80%
Primy                                       5.0         5.00%      5.00%    5.00%     5.00%    5.00%    5.00%    5.00%    5.10%
MYMbig                                      2.%         5.00%      5.50%    6.00%    7.A0%    7.00%    7.00%    7.00%    7.00%
maebaai6mpaa                                 0.70%      -1.30%     .5.80%    9.90%    6.00%    7.80%    7.60%    8.60%    7.90%
MC  tNDICES (169-l10)
Eat Plice Wu                                  94.6        82.6       80.7      84.4      863      8S.6       91      91.4     92s
npawtpdtc.td                                 106.4       106.4      108.6    109.0    110.7    112.9    114.7    116.7    118.7
TaM  ofTmd. Itni                              83.9        77.6       75.8      77.7      79.2       SO     S0.6      79.7     79.6
Rl Ed  bup Raft                               63.7        68.0       _                            --                          -
comumerWPicindx                              166.5       1783       186.4    193.8    201.6    209.6        21S    226.S    235.8
Real blateei Ras                              .          .           _
GOP deflater (gowda mm)                      133%         81%        5.0%      5.0%     4.0%      4.0%     4.0%      4.0%     4.0%



ANNEX I
Qbaaw F&Mvd SeW Op-                                                                              38
Table 2: Key    M             d  Indtors (coat)
- -u92- -' fi-- '-t                  9            - -  - -999- - - ----
DIR VDIDICATORS
ToW Dii Oab4idng 7DQ)                     2403.0     27840       23.1    w4.    300S.S   31343    3290.0   3471.0   3S98.1
142.5      205.1        149      10.L5    123       ISS.?      I81      2.1      126.2
TOW  D*IS*.                                150.7      2426         Ma       143.0    134.2       24      124.3    1766       115.6
DEBT      DEIIT SERVir  IEICA, 9RS
TDOOs                                   421.81%    44487%      48.56%   416J8%   38331%   3607%   33.23%   31Wit%   308.0
TDOO,P                                   97.03%      91.37%      KOM    793%    7.58%    72.3    69J4%    67O %    6334
Taw=                                      24.42%     22.79%      342%    20.51%    1734%    14,06%    13.4%    114%    133%
cimamiDO                                 78.75%      7402%       6.81%    63.41%    531%    S481%    481%M  561%    5431%
NED DAmouEPMz WDNCATORS
lDUDIDADSnD=                               33%        6466%       4.81%     7.34%     8.49%    1.06%    12.74%    11.25     11.11%
Pat C      , qD                           30.%       1636%       21.76%    25.81%    29.69%    29.69%    299%    2949%    29.9
=U  IADSX8                                   8%       0.34%       0.91%     077%      0.70%     0.63%    o.5%      0.49%    0.4Q%
MDht MAftft &m                            21.4       2445%       2437      AM        V.47%  -.8         2L3       2680%    25.17%
UID!AGfa                                   ..         ..          ..        ..        ..       ..        .          .       .
=30 a-                                       -. -. -. -. -.                          ..                   .       .



ANNEX I
Gk*w a Ibcaler OpemraiL                                                                39
Table 3: Exenal Fbinnig R1 993-1997
(illions US dollars)
.       1994    1995    1996   1997
Est.             Projeclions          A'evap  Total
Fimnaci  requImnts                           44&7   6066   490.5   466   461.3  504.8 2,019.0
Cuent accom ddikit, exc dig public transfers  396.6   373.9   364.9   364.0   359.6  365.6  1.462.4
PublUc debt amoTuztion   102.4   ISIA   89.8    77.6    64.g   95.9 . 383.7
IMF repayments    3.2      5.7     8.3     8.3   10.8    8.3   33.1
Intenatonal reserves    46.1    -3.7    27.5    10.7   26.0   15.1   60.5
Cbanges in amyes    -79.3    79.3    -       -       -      19.8   79.3
Errs and omisions   -20.3      -       -       -       -       0.0    0.0
Esting Commitmn                   448.7   356.1   271.3   183I     112.9  231L0   9239
Grants                     117.9   114.9    79.0    46.4    18.7   64.8   259.0
Frftct   101.1    968      7.4     44      187    W(8   235.
PrO51     1L2     11.6     ao       0.0    0.0     29    11.6
Odw(Fottod t      5.6     65      5.6      0O.    0.O    5.0   1I1
Loa Officiacredits                203.0   138.8   109.2    61.5    27.7   $4.3  337.2
fr*st   150.5   129.3   1092    61.5    27.7   81.9   327.7
.rot       525      9.5      0.0     0.0     0            9.5
IMF dbrsemn                       -       -        -       -       -      0.0     0.0
Cap,l mining compnies               62.7    11.9     7.7    .66      3.6    4.2    16.6
Dect investment                 15.8    23.9    222    25.5   24.7   24.1    96.3
Other pite capital               10.0    16.7    14.7    15.0   16.2   15.7   62.6
Monetizadon of gold              57.9    49.9    38.5    41.8   22.0   38.1   152.2
PuisClub rechedulng                58.9     -        -       -       _      0.0    0.0
Otherdebtresbedulings               -       -        -       -              0.0    0.0
Deferrdpamet                    -77.5     -        -       -       -      0.0    0.0
Dluburuuneuts Expete d New Commitments        0.0    51.5   199.2   277.0  348.5  219.1  876.2
Grants                       0.0    16.2    88.2   115.4   155.6   93.9  37SA
hVet       0.0    16.2    53.9    923   132.       7.7   29.9
P?ugrau     0.0     0.0    34.3    17.5    17.5    173    69.3
OaIIFood a        0.0     0.0     0.0      5.6    5.6     28    11.2
Loans                       0.0    23.0    82.1   143.0   192.9  110.8  443.0
t ao a0.0    140    48.1   1140   167.9    7.0   340
paogz       0.0     9.0    3.       27.0    25.0    23.8    95.0
IMW  disbursements                0.0    12.3    28.9    16.6    0.0   14.5    57.8
Totl Idtd Fnncing                            448.7   40.6   470S   460.6  461    45QO  1,800.1
Reiu  F n           gap                        0.0      199.0    20.0   0.0    0      58   219.0
Soue: Daa provided by th Oulnean auories; Off stimes and projecdons
(1) bclud   transactions With the fomer Soviet Union



ANNEX I
CGuinea Finnca Seco Operado                                                 40
Table 4:  Einaal I    oitutions: Assets
(as of September 30, 1992)
Fina l Insttudin                                          Date of Incepton     Assets
(GNF
billions)
Commercid  Banks:                                                                 225.8
Banque Intetnationale pour le Commerce et   BICIGUT       January 1986             90.6
l'Industrie en Guin6e
Soci6t G&6rale de Banque en Guin4e           SGBG         December 1985            51.8
Union Internatonale de Banque en Guin6e      UIBG         January 1988             22.0
Banque Inrnatonalepour lAfrique en           BIAG         AugSus 1985              31.1
Guin6e
Bnpue Islamique de Guin6e                     BIG         January 1983             19.4
Banque Populaire Maroco- uinme               BPMG         April 1991               10.9
Other Institutins:                                                                 21.1
l'Union Guin6enne des Assurances et          UGAR         January 1989              8.9
Reassurances
Soci6 Nouveite d'Assurmncs de Guin6e        SONAG         July 1989                 1.4
Socit Guin6enne d'Assuances Mutuelles       SOGAM         January 1991              0.2
Mutuelle d'Assurance des Travailleurs de  MUTRAGlI    April 1992                    *
Guin6e
CrEdit Rural                                              1988                      1.6
CrEdit Mutuel                                             1988                      1.0
Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale         CNSS         1955                    **8.0
TOTAL                                                                            246.9
Sotne: Unad Ste _ of fnancia insdUS
* Not available
Esdmtn



ANNEX I
Gbw= ETada Seaor Opaauon                                                    41
Table 5: Cmmerdal Banks: Distrbution of Owneuhip
IICIGUI          Capital                       USD 11.1 million
Goverment                         50.5%
BNP                                12.6%
IPC                                 9.0%
CFD                                9.0%
DEG                                9.0%
BIB                                4.5%
SFOM                               5.4%
SGBG           Capital                         PP 20 million
Private Guineans                   48%
Societ6 G6n6rale                   34%
Cr6dit Suisse                       6%
GI6rale de Banque                   5%
Bayerishe Vaeinsbank                5%
Banca Nationale del Lavoro          2%
UIBG           Capital                         GNF 2 billion
Private Guineans                   49%
Crdit Lyomnais                      51%
RAG            Capital                       GNF 500 million
Government                         100%
BIG           Capital                         GNF 2 billion
DMI Trust                          100%
BPMG            Capital                        GNF 2 billion
Govermment                         30%
Guinean Interests                  30%
Bnque Centrale Popuaire            35%
du Maroc
CrEdit Immobilier du Maroc          5%
S     CaMUCW  Bows anum repom



ANNEX I
Guine F7ndana Ser Qpeml-                                                      42
Table 6: Con al Banks: ScUuy  lafle Sheet (Unaude
(as of Setmber 30, 1992)
(ONF miHions)
GMF         For. CUm.              Total
Cash Reserves                        4,447             1,417             S,86S
Deposit at BCRG                    12,876                               12,876
Ass  in *me  bak                         -            55,720            55,720
Las:
Public Sector                        594                 1               595
Finacial nsu ons                    1,162                -              1,162
Privat Sector                      61,194           14,384             75,578
Non-perfoming Loans                32,084            1,921             34,005
(Less prvisions for
bad debt)                       (11,190)                -           (11,190)
Pixed Assets                         4,441            7,532             11,973
Other Assets                        13,306            25,839            39,145
TOrAL                              118,914           106,814           225,728
BCRG refinancing                    11,431            2,798             14,229
Deposils:
Public Sector                      26,742            4,373             31,115
Financal stitunions                 1,033            3,848              4,881
PFivate Sector                     81,852           26,138            107,990
Other Liablides                      9,837            27,988            37,825
Net Worth                           10,042            19,646            29,688
TOTAL                              140,937           84,791            22S,728
Sowe: Unadbi financl awau of commaI bnb.



ANNEX I
Gubwa Fouria Secor OprlIn                                              43
Table 7: Co Udal Bans: D *st _tlo o Credit by Economic Sector
(as of September 30, 1992)
(prcentage)
BICIGUI    SGBG       IllBG     BAG       BIG    BPMG  AlB Banks
Trade                37.9      63.5      34.8      47.2    63.2      72.0       48.3
Housing &            -14.9      8.6      30.9      23.8    27.9      10.1       17.3
Public Works
Agribusiness &       20.4       13.4      17.0      8.4      2.4      1.7       14.5
Textile
Otiher                16.2       3.0      10.7       .4       -       2.9        8.1
Natural               4.0       3.0        .6        1.9     .5       1.3        2.7
Resources
Taportation            1.5       1.9        -       6.5      1.0       .7        2.3
Mining                  -         .8        -       5.8       -         -        1.2
othier                5.1       5.8       6.0       6.0      5.0     11.3        5.6
TOTAL                100.0    100.0      100.0    100.0   100.0    100.0       100.0
Sowrc: BRG. Directin do Credit, Semvie des Risqmes at R_



r%I1Sg   g gi
I              f  
1 SRt t 1 g; % a 
tI   iZ"     
iR , R >WeYt~~~IZ
50e~~~~~
I ' fimS ..    I
IIfSMl  S 



ANNEX I
Guinea Rnmclad Sector Operat*os                                          45
Tab 9: -sua_ ce Companes: Disribdon of Owuerdip-
UGAR           Capita                       GNF 2 billion
Goverment                       60%
UAP                             40%
SOGAM           Capita                      GNF 100million
Private Guinea                  55%
SONAM                           45%
SONAG           Capital                     GNF 300 million
Private Guineans                49%
PFA                             51%
Sam'c: Unaudited fimncial smemem of insuanc comnpmnies



ANNEX I
Qdaa FUwudd Swer p                                                     46
Tabe 10: Crit Rwra Sected Dat
(as of June 30. 1992)
(GNF D3ilons)
Guue.       Moy...        n ate       Gobuie       All
Maaitlm      Guies        Guie.   FPoeuk          Reon
Cv&* Solida
- Number of Clients     2,992        2,767      2922         710        9,391
- Amou  Outranta         143          171         200          75         589
Cr6dit AUIde .
- Number of Client       754         1,006        1,823        160       3,743
- AmOunt                 36           61          116          9          222
- Number of Clients     2,105        2,238       2,679        1,120      8,142
- Amount <>l_            93           76           51          35         255
w=     ROWd



ANNEX U
Gdivtw Fluewiad SCor OpEJUadofl                                             47
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FINANCIAL SECTOR OPERATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONENT
1.    The Government financa sector program foce on stregthening the
enviornent (montay, regulatory and judicial) and on insitution building (Central Bank,
Ministry of Finac, Ministry of Justice, commercial bank, insurance compaies and
mutual savins and loan iDstitutions). Guinea ha neither the ifrastuc
(ommicatons, computers, libraries) nor the human resourc  (managers, lawyers,
judgs acountants) to fully implement these refonns. The objetive of tecnical
assistance is to: (a) build the required infrstructure; (b) develop local human resources;
and (c) assist Guinean in prepn  and cari  out legad and regatory reforms and
designing development plans for instional building. Great care will be taken to ensure
the transfer of technology and sdklls to the Gulneams and their ownehip of the program.
2.    Technical assistance will target: (a) the Central Bank; (b) the Ministry of Fmnnce;
(c) the Ministry of jusdce; and (d) fina   nitns. Severa bilateral donors will
aompny the Bank and she the cost of the technical assistanc progm. Te total
cost of tecmical assistance is estimaed at US$8.0 million, with  IDA assuming US$5.0
mlion (            scbedule, mainpowerlcost estmates and performance maume
a  atahed.
Technical 
3.    Central bank (BCRG). The Centa  Bank is responsible for: (a) fomuatng
and implementing monety policy; (b) regulating and speviing bans and insurance
companies; (c) managin the foreign exchange resrves of the country ad conducting
foreign echan  operations; and (d) acting as a banker and financial advisor to the
Govenmment. It thus plays a major role in determining the enviomnt within which
financial itutions opde. BCRG has been the recipient of much technical assisuce.
In afton, BCROG kadership has exerted its own efforts to improve the operations of the
Bank and stegthe its human resources base by: (i) sending senior managers abroad for
trainig and providing onthe-job traning by eqatiates in a number of areas; (ii)
laching a determined effort to bring qualified Guis back to Guinea to work at the
Centrl Bank; and (dii) bldig its own traiing center. Many weaknesses rema,
however, which will be addressed by the technical assistance. The areas targeted are:
(a)      C    _ _   A first step will be a functional analysis to assess the
needs of BCRG, to be followed by the installation of a computer sym.
Special attention will be given to the  stanabiliy of the system by
proviing training of-staff to: (i) operate the hardware; (ii) develop and
operate software; and (iff) maintin the equipment and softwae programs.
Funding will be provided to: ff) conduct the functional aalysis;
(ii) purchase hardwre ad softwae; (iii) install the stem; and (iv) trai



ANNEX U
Gd     . FoW  SWer Opeoraaon                                               48
staf. Putting the system into place will take about two years at an
estimated cost of US$1,120,000 (USAID: VS$SO,000,
IDA: US$620,000).
(b)    Telcnm     latlous Network. To improve BCRG's ability to conduct
business with its branches, domestic and international financial
institutions a back-up teleommunication system will be installed.
Technical assistance will fiud the satellite, the lines and the experts to
trai the operators (US$4,000O covered by USA D and Govenment).
(c)    Devdopment of Fnandal Markets and Open Maret Operations.
BCRG staff requres assistance in the development of the money market
and open market operations. Technical assisace will fund training and
development of instuments and procedus  through short-term
interenions of experts. Some equipmt will also be needed. The
program could take two years at a cost of US$200,000J:fi d by 1DA,
which indudes US$50,000finaced unwcr the PPF.
(d)    Co_mmeial Bank Acomnting Pla. A commercal bank accounting
specialist will be hired to assist officials, thgh repeated punctual
interventians, to develop a uniform commercial banking accountg plan
and train BCRG and commcial bank staff in the use of this plan. The
program will take two years at a cost of US$200,000fWed by IZA.
(e)   bnurance AAccount  PIlan. An iurance accounting specialist will be
fimded to assist officials, through short-term interventions, to develop a
uiform insurance accountig plan and train staff m the use of this plan.
Work will take 18 months to complete (US$150,00Jfunded by ID, whih
hcldies US$50,000financed wider the PPF).
(f)   luumne  Legislation. New isurane legislation is needed with
n prudenial regulation dealig with techical reserves,
invements and admissible assets. An insurance specialist will be funded
to introduce reviions to insurance legislation and regulation. The process
will take one year at a cost of US$60,000fimded by MDA.
(g)    LAl ExP tie. A judicial expert will be funded to: (a) assist local staff
in the drafting of legal texts; (b) assist in the organizaion of a legal
department within the BCRG; and (c) train the legal staff in this
department. A Guinean c    part will be assigned to work closely with
the legal expert; to ensure that transfer of skill will be achieved, IDA
funding for the legal expert has been limited to a fixed period of 18
months (US$680,000 fnded by IDA, which ncdes US$280,000 fesded
wider she PPF).
(h)    Lgo   of Savngs and Loan Isitudio. Technical assistance will
fund an expert to assist, through short-tm iereions, in the
preparon of legisation. The process will take one year (US$100,000
weredby CFD).



ANNEX U
Gdm Twca Setor Oeain49
(i)    Bankig Supervilou. Important progress in on and off-site supeavision
of commercial baks has been realized thanks to a resident expert fnded
by USAID. The eWert will continue working with the BCRG Bank
Supision Unit to reiforce bking upevision. Stn         of
supevision will involve: (i) the peparation of a written staement on the
division of responsibilities between Banking and the Inpection sections;
4ii) the traing of the staff in methods of bank supervision; OHii) the
development of an early waming system; (iv) the development of
procedres for the discssion of and follow-up on insction reports; and
(v) the preparton of a procedures manual (USAID already nvolve wuill
conwe to fzd the resid  expert: US$150,000. An adAdtional
US$100,000 isjlnacd by IDA wnder the PPF).
(j)    Supervision of I   a_    Companes. Staff in chge of supervising
innce companies lack experience. An inrance specialist will be
hired to perform off- and on-site supervmsion with existing staff and assist
in the r   on  of the division in chge of iosrance survision.
Technical assistance will fund a resident expert for a period of twelve
months (US$100(,  cowered by USD).
(k)   R      nof  nndal Markets and Stockbrokers. Technical
assistance will fund an expert to assist in the preparation of regulation and
supervision mechansms of financial markets. The project will consist of
short-term iterventions of an expert over a three-month period at a cost
of US$70,000fiaded by IDA.
(t)      S     reof the BUG. Two experts will be provided: (a) an
expert to conduct a study to determine the feasibility of convertng BIAG
from a coammrcil bank to an investent bank; and (b) an interim
adi ar  to manage the bank conservatvely for a maxium  period of
9 months (US$0,000 has been fued  der the PPF).
(m)   Srategc Pla for the Developmt of Mutul Savig ad Loan
I_u_IIoa. Expes  will be provided to assist officials, through sbort-
term interventions, in developing a viable financial and operadonal plan
for these institutions (US160,000fanded by CFD).
(n)   Study and Tecmdicalt Ane   Fund. Promotion of private sector
investmt has been a priority of Government during the past few years.
The Fund will provide assistance to small borrowers in the prepaion of
ther credit applicatn, negotiations with the lending istiution and the
follow-Wp of the loan after it is granted. Technica assistance will fund
short-term punctual interventions by eers to: (i) elaborate an
operational plan for the Fund; (ii) write a procedures manual; (iii) make
financial projections; (iv) establish and lamch the Fund; and (v) train stiff
(US$140,000 has been finded wdr the PP9).
(0)   Mc   Unit. A unit is neded to monitor finanial and
economic varables, derive money growth and interest rate objectives and
implement these objectives. Technical assistance wfll fumd: (i) short-term



ANNEX U
GdF flnwtdal Seaor Operat                                                  50
Interventions of an expert to set up the unit and perform on-the-job
traing; (ii) necessay equipment; and (hi) broader courses and seminars.
This project will take about one year to complete. (US$600,000 covered
by CIDA).
(p)   Trabing Cutter. A new training center has been completed at the BCRG
which will be used to train staff frm public and private enteaprises in
finanil and baking analysis, economics, etc... Technical assistance wil
finnce: (a) equime  and supplies; (b) itructonal maerial; and
(c) train adminisave staff. (US$24,000piunded by IRA, which Indada
US$IOO, 00fimded under the PPF).
(qc)              onCt  and Archives. Technical assistance will provide
funds for: (i) an expert to develop procedures and train staff in methods of
archiving and documentation; and (ii) the purchase of photocopying
machines and possibly steel shelves. It is a six month job. (US$O00,0;
The funing agency has not been deteimined).
4.    Mistry of Fhance. The Ministy of Finance needs to build its internal capcity
to understand and participate in the discussion on monetary policy and supervision of
financial istutions. Technical assistance, within the scope of the financial sector
operation will focus on the "Division Monnaic et Cr6dit" of the "Direction Nationale du
TrEsor'. Trining will be provided in macroeconomic, financial and banking analysis and
project appraisal. Efforts will be coordinated with training provided for BCRG staff. In
addition, cOmPUter equipment (hardware and software) will be provided to establish a data
link with the BCRG. Other equpment includes office equipment such as photocopiers
and frniture. (US$500,000funded by IDA including US$00.,000 funded under e PPF).
S.    Minstry of Justice. The Minisatry of Justice has not recved much technical
assistance in the past and has not bad the opportunity to build on its human resorce base.
Prehmiary efforts have resulted in marked progress on several fronts: two roundtables
were organized in 1992 on the importance of the judicial evionment in the functioning
of the finacial system; updadng and drafting of a number of legal texts is underway; a
comprebensive data base of laws is now fully operational (although not yet accessible); a
training effort is being launched with the assistance of USAIID (38 judges have been
traind); ad finally, the establishment of a monitoring committee (Comit6 de Suivi) are a
clear indication of the Ministry's commitment to the reform program. Strengthening of
the judicial system is an importa part of the financial sector reform program. Tacbical
aitane is needed -in several areas:
(a)    Drafting of Legal Texts. The texts that need updating (an. 91 of the
MOP) include, intrli, accelerated recovery proceres, and 'saisie
conservatoire". A resident expert at the Ministry of Justice has been
involved in redrafing several texts. Technical assistance wil continue to
find this expert. The expert will work in close collaboration with
Ministry of Justice officials in the overall supervision of the reform
program and train local staff to prepare legal texs. The expert will only
stay for a period of 18 months and train a counterpart who will assume his
responsibilities once he leaves. Before funding of this expert begins, the



ANNEX E
Guie  nawla Secor Opadon                                                  S1
Government wiU name a counterpart within the Ministry of Justice and
agree to terminate the mandate of the expert after 18 months.
(US$750,(000funded by IDA of which USW350,00 has been financed
under the PPF).
(b)   Publicaon of Court Decions Technical assistamce will reimbuse the
Ministry of Justice for costs of publication for a two-year period.
Afterwards, the Ministry is expected to fund the publication with its own
resources. (UJS$200,00famded by DA);
(c)    Estblihment of a Computerized Dat BaDnk on Judial Desions.
Technical assistance will fund: (i) the purchase of hardware and software;
and (ii) the training of staff to operate and mainin the computer system.
The project is estimated to take two years to complete (US$180,000
floeded by IDA).
(d) Development of a Land Registry. Technical assistance will cov_r expert
assistce in the development of a land registry in Conakry and rural area
(US$200A000fioidedby CFD).
(e)   Infonnaton Campaign. Education and information of the pouation at
large is a key element in the development of a credible judicial process.
The information campaign will aim at: (i) educating the general public
with respect to financi conracts and their enforcement; and
(ii) imformig the public on legal recourse and costs. Technical assistance
will fund: (i) short-term interventions by experts to assist in the
preparaion of the information campaign; and (ii) the costS of the
capigns (US$310,(>Ofwded by IDA, which includes US$10,000
financed under the the PPI).
(f3     R dtablishment of a Specalized Library. Technical assistance will fund:
(a) the development of adequate prmes (e Centre de FormalitW des
Entrprises could be used for that purpose); (b) the purchase of books and
jouals; (c) the purchase of computers; and (d) the training of librarians
(US$200,000; Source offwzding stilt needs to be determined).
(g)   S    _preme Court Technical assistance will be provided to develop and
implement a taining program tailored to the immediate needs of judges
and magistrates of the Supreme Court (US$50,000 fwded by IDA).
(h)                of the Clerk of Court. Technical assistance will be
provided to purchase equipment such as photocopiers and typewriters.
(US$180,000funded by IDA, which inudes US$50,00 fnded wsder the
PPF7.
(i)    General Inspecdon of Judia Services. Technical assistance will be
provided to purchase two all-terrain vehicles which will be used
exclusively to enable staff to carry out inspections in Conaky and rural
areas (US$70,000 funded uwder the PP19.



ANNME B
Gsn* Fianc Secor Op'ra'                                                   52
6.      uacla  sttdous. Financal institutions' staff need training In many areas,
as do officials of BCRG, the Miistries of Finance and Justice. Tecnic  assistance wil
fund a study by an expert to ae  the training needb and develop a global plan
(US$1  000 covered by USA Dfor BCRG). Techical assistance will also funkd seins
and course which emphasize financia and credit avlysis, accoing metods, project
appraisal and follow-up teciques that will be offered over a two-year period at a cost of
US$430,000 shared by several donors (USA D, (US$350,O0) CFD and CIDA). Training
wil be cenalized, most likely at the new trainn center being built by the Centrl Bank
and at the 'Centre do PormalWt des Etrprise  within the Ministry of Jusdce.
Project Admitoand Impl
7.    Adminson. Each agency (BCRG, Ministry of Fiance, Minitry of Jusdte)
will asume the responsibility for the admitration of the tchnical assisnce pordn of
the Credit under its purview. Each will be responsible for hiring consultants, with Bak
apprval, to cany out the necesary work. Each will be in charge of drawing up detaile
terms of reference for the consultants, shordists and if necessary, preparation of bidding
documents for equipment.
8.    lIi         on . As indicated trughout tis Annex, whenever exernal
eperse is needed, it will gaeneally be provided through repeated short-tem
interventions. Care will be taken to transfer skills and techlology and udlie local saff to
maintain the equiment provided. Each expaite tecnical assistat will work with a
designe national countpart. The technical assistance compone of the Credit is
expected to be disbursed within a 24-month period, as it is closely linked to the
implementation of the financial sector reform program. Some of the meas   to be
3mplemeoted with techical assistance are condiions for disbursment of the second
trche of the adjustm  component of the Credit.
9.    Procurment.' Procemen procedures for goods and consultants wi follow
stndad Bank procedue, as outined in the 'Guidelines on Procurement' (May 1992),
and -Use of Consant" (August 1981), under IDA credit, respectively. All contat
for goods estimated to cost US$250,000 or more and consulting contacts for technicd
assistance eacaestmated to cost US$70,000 or more will be subject to IDA's pror
review procedure. Contracts for equipment and frniture each estimated to cost
US$250,000 or more will be by IC., Contract below this threshold in aggrega  not
exceedn US$1,100,000 would be by shopping (local or inteational) on the basis of at
least three (3) quotations from eligible source counties. All contracts for coslting
fim  above US$70,000 will be by international competition through short Hist procedures.
Their seiection, qualificatons, experience and terms of reference will be subject to
standard IDA review procedures.
10.   Dets. Disbursement will be made against sndard Bank.
doumentation. ibe proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed against 100 premt totld
expendiur. In order to ensure the timely prvision of funds available to finance the
cost of services and goods to be procured under the project, the Govermnt will ope
.      -      ddand r@ofig condom app  o ecnil aine Au&d by ft Cm4IL



ANNEX E
GQbe FYwzca Secor                                                        53
and maintain a Special Account in US dollars at the Cent  Bank on terms and condiio
acceptable to IDA. The initiat deposit to this Special Account will be US$200,000 which
represents the project expenditus for a thee month period. Funds in the Specid
Accoun wili be available to finan  only eligible expenditures under the project. The
Special Account will be replenishd every month based on the documentary evidence for
payments made from the account for goods, services and training financed by the
proposed credit.
11.   Aoouning, Auditg and ReportIng. Auditig will be requred on a yearly
basis for expenditures related to the Project with particular attention to expendtu
reimbursed against staements of  petures. Audits will be performed by qualified
auditors acceptable to IDA and will be sent to IDA witin six months of the end of each
financial year. Furemore, the Ministry of Fiance will submit quarterly reports on
project implementation progress, and a final evaluation report on implementation
experience and project results within six months of the Credit closing. The aWdit report
will include a separate opinion on the use of the Special Account and disbursement made
aginst the SOE procedures. A mid-term review will be conducted by April 30, 1995 to
ensure that the project is proceeding on schedule. These arrangements will be confirmed
at negodations.
12.   ProgmM              and Monitoring. It will be important for prqect
components to be monitored, evaluated and modified, as necessary, during the coause of
the project. A table of Performance Indicators is attached. The Ministry of Finace,
BCRG and the Mnistry of Justice wil have responsibility for oveneeig the
implementation of their respective components of the financial sector program. A
*steering committeew will oversee the overall implemention of the progrm and
coordinate the actions of the three agencies. As discussed in para. 117 of the Report of
the President, an informal consultative committee, including members from the donor
community, wifl also be establisbed.



ANNEXiI
G#*w Fbt'dd Sec*w Opum                                                      54
TECIHICAL ASSWANCE COMONENr
Catwory                    Amount of Credit           PercenW  of e       sediue
(USS thousands)                to be finanoed
Consulants' servie and           1j800                          100%
Goods, equint,                   1,700                          100%
mateials and suppies
Total Amount of Tecnical         3,500 21
Assistan  Component
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Estmated IDA Disbursements                                IDA Fiscal Year
-(US$ thousans)-
1995      1996      1997
Annual                                             1,000      1,500      1,000
Cumulative                                         1,000      2,500     3,500
Somay  rekdow  of Dono Asd _             dwU s nds)
IDA                             5,000
CIDA                              600
CFD                               460
USAID                           1,600
Not yet dermined                  380
TOTAL                           8,040
2  excodes US$1.5 millio financed und Mhe PPF.



ANNEX II
Q*uAW  FVIiid SeCtOr O)wwOdM                                                       55
TEC ICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONINT
MANPOWICOf RSTEMATES
Technia            Fndig                  Deuription
Cafa Bau: 
USAJD & IDA   * FudP   will be poided to:        24 mm-mnt    (US$1.12 milion)
(a) conduct a funcional       puncu   nt_eio
anysis; (b) purchase hardware;
(c) software; (f) install the
syem; and (e) train staff to
(I) operat Oth hardware;
(ii) devdeop and operate
software. and (Iii) mintain the
e    _uipmn and softwr
Td_a   USAID    * Tecdical asstmce will fund    6 mn-months / (US$400,000)
System                                the esablidihmt of a bak-up
Devlpment of        IDA, Bank of    0 BCRG will receive technical     12 man-nths / (US$150,000)
Finial Mak          Fanmce, IMP                 to: (a) trin staff, (b)  short-term punctua interveio
and Open Maket                         develop new fiancial           (additona USSSOO000 i financed
OpeI n                                in_um; and (c) wrie            ldie theP-)
-. Somec
will also be puhased.
C      _mmercial 1Bak  IDA           * A commerci bank ccountg    24 man-months I (US$200,000)
Acchuntig Pan                          specialt wil be hired to asit   short-term puneta intrvni
BCRO to delop a uniform
c      _mmeW banhing aounting
plan and train BCRO and
commeca bank staff in te
use of this plan
_nsurane Compsay   IDA              0 An nsurne accuig               18 ma-months I (US$100,000)
Accountig PIa                          spcial  will be fund to       short-trm puncta ievento
assist BCRG deveop a uniform   (addna US$50,000 is financed
insurance acoog plan ad         x he PPP)
1W staff in die use of dhis
plan.
Jnune Legsai    IDA                    An Insu peciit will be    12 man-monts I (US$60,000)
funded to intoduce revision to  short-term punctual intervetions
with teDhnica reervp
hnvauna Iand admissble
mew).



[t111                     'in Iii [J T F| 
'I     'I,'               1.1 'I0s
Er ,ir      S.
Jr1 {|]  g       [-i[nltL     l
tl:  221  W       s:W:  [|S1110~~~~~~~



ANNEX H
GidmAwa Financd Sector OpenawUo                                                     57
Techd              F_ndg                  Deoiptio                      M B       IC t
As_ww               Ag8
Componen-
Strategic Pa for    CFD              * Expets wfll be provided to     18 ma-monsts l (US$160,000)
the Development of                     assist officials in developing a  ihort-tem punctual interventons
Muual Savpgs and                       finncial and operational an
LOan I:stItutions                      for these insttuos.
Stengh  BlAG        IDA              * Technical asistane will fund a   1 mm-month t (US$30,000 under
consultant to determine the   the PPF)
feasibility of convetng BIAG
into an investment bank.
* Technical assistance will fund    9 man-moths I (US$170,000
an interim   mino to          underthe PPF)
operate the bank on a
consevatve basis.
Stu  and Techical  IDA               * Technical assstac will fund    3 man-months I (US$140,000
Assistance Fund                        expet to: (a) daborate an      under the PPF)
operationa pln for the Fund;
(b) write a procedure manual;
(c) make financial projections;
(d) establish and launch the
Fund; and (e) train staff.
31croeconomic Unit  CIDA             * Technical  _sce will fund:   6 man-months / (US$600,000)
(a) an expert to set up the unit   short-tem punctal ierventdons
and provide on-the-job training.
(b) the purchase of necessary
equpment; and (c) ec
and finan   coures and
seminar.
Taig Center         IDA              * Techical as wstamce will       6 man-months / (US$140,000)
finance: (a) supplies and     short-term pmuctud ivntin
equipment (b) tainig          (addidonal US$100,000 is financed
mateial; and (c) trining for  under the PPF)
admbstraive pasnel.
Documentation       Uidenfied        * Technical         will        3 man-months I (US$100,000)
CAne and Ard s                         pwvide funds for (a) an exet   short-term puncta interventions,
to develop procedures and ain
staff in methsods of acif
and do -  11 ----'    d (b)the
purche of photcopying
maiz   and steel selves.



ANNEX I
Guina Fiwca Sector Opein                                                        58
Techica          FJ8ndl                 D_ _rptio                    Ma-  ntIuCost
Asdde              Agnq
Componet
Ministy of
Derelopment of the   IDA           * Tedinical assitance will      16 man-mondts I (US$4,000)
)ivision Monafe   p--                   vide tainig in             short-term punctual inaeventions
et Crit                               mc, financial and    and purchase of eipm
banking analysis anid projet:    (additional US$100,000 is financed
appisal. Effots will be      under tde PPF)
coordinated with taning at the
BCRG.
* Stff of the Division will benefit
fom training in other Afican'
counries, in France and in the
United States.
Tenca asisoe wvil fund
the purcae of phooopiers,
micro-computers, office
euipement. A commnications
link win be estabHshed with the
Central Bank, after an
evaluatio for eqi pan by the
World Bank.
Ministry of Jstbe:
Daftig of Legal    IDA             * Technical assistance will     30 man-months I (US$400,000)
TOM                                  contn  to fund a reside       lone-term hlited itvetons
expert at the MOJ involved in    not to exceed 18 months after the
redrafting ser  es           mpl i   of the prect.
inluding accelerated recove  (addidonal US$350,000 is financed
procedures and saise         under te PPF fr a legal expert in
consevaoire'. The expert will  MiNisty of Jusdce and an expert
work in cose callbrton with  for the CCEP).
MOI officials in die oveall
speision of the refm
program and train local -staff in
drafting legal texts.
Publicati of Cout  IDA             * Technial ase will             (US$2O,00)
Decisions                            rimburse the MOJ for coss of
publication for a one-year
period. (Afterwards, the
Mistry i expcd to fud the
publication with its own
resouces.)



ANNEX II
GAwa Finawial Sector Operation                                                    59
Techndcal         Fding                  Description                   Man-months/Cost
,Assistanc         Agncy
component
Establishment of a    IDA           * Technical assistance will fund:   6 man-months / (US$180,000)
Computerized Data                     (a) the purchs of hardware     short-tem punctual interventions
Bank                                  and software; and (b) the
training of staff to operate and
maintain the computer system.
Development of a    CFD             * Technical assistame will cover   12 man-months I (US$200,000)
Land Regisaty                         expert assistance in the      short-term punctual interventions
development of a land registiy
in Conaty and rural areas.
Information         IDA             * Funding will cover the costs of   12 man-months / (US$300,000)
Campaign                              preparing an information      short-term punctual interventions
campaign (expert and publishing  (additional US$10,000 is financed
costs) to: (a) educate the    under the PPF)
general public on financial
concts and their enforcement;
and (b) infom the public on
legal recourse and costs.
Establishment of a    Unidentified  * Technical assistance will fund:   12 man-months / (US$200,000)
Specialized Library                   (a) the development of adequate  short-term punctual interventions
premises (The Centre de
Formalite des Enrprises could
be used for that purpose); (b)
the purchase of books and
journals; (c) the purchase of
computs; and (d) the training
of librarians.
Strengthening of the   IDA          * Technical assistance will fund    (US$130,000)
Clerk of the Court                    the purchase of equipment      (additional US$50,000 is financed
(photocopiers and typewriters,   under the PPF)
necessaly to efficiently carTy
out its mandate.
General Inspection    IDA           * Techical assistance will fund the  (US$70,000 is financed under the
of Judicial Services                  purchase of two vehicles to be    PPF)
used to supervise jurisdictions
in Conakry and rral areas.
Supreme Court of    IDA             * Technical assistance will     (US$50,000 for short-term
Justice                               develop and complement a       consultancy)
training program tailored to the
immediate needs of Supreme
Court Magistrates.



ANNEX U
Guina Fnand  SecW Opem                                                            60
Techical          Fundg                  Descipton                     M a tsCst
Assstance          Ageacy
FInancial Institutions:
Global Needs        USAID           * Technical assistance will fund a   6 man-months / (US$100.000)
Assessment                            study by an expert to assess the   short-term punct  iuavenions
trainig needs and develop a
glob  training plan.
Seminarslcourses    multi-donor     * Technica assistance wil} fund    6 man-months I (US$430,000)
semimars and courses which    short-term punct  intewretions
emphasze fnacial and credit
analysis, accounting methods,
project appisl and follow-up
techniques offered over a two-
year period.



ANNEX n
Guinea Fina l sector Operwion                                                      61
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COMPONN
PERFORMACE MEASUREMET
Tachicd Assee  .           Funding                 Ist year                       2nd year
Componet               Agy
Cetntra Dank
Compurisation              USAID           * Fucto   analysis has been    * Compute network has been
completed.                     established.
* Hardware and software has    0 Workstations have access to
been installed.                applicable data.
* Staff tran  has begun.
Telecommnications System   USAID           * Telecommunicatons system
has been installed and is
operational for Central Bank
and commercial banks.
Developmet of FinancW     IDA, Bank of    * Auction market for Trasuy    * New financial instments
Markets and Open Market    France, IMF       Bils is operational with issus  have been introduced.
Operations                                   offered an a regular basis.  * BCRG is conducting open
_ BCRO bas constituted a         market operations.
portfolio of Treasur Bills.
Commercial Bank            IDA             0 Accounting plan is           * Commercial bank staff are
Accounting Plan                              established,                   traine to use new plan.
Insurane Company         IDA              * Accounting plan is           * Insurance compay staff are
Accounting Plan                              establihd.                     trained to use new plan.
Insunce  gislaton         IDA              * New insce legislation and
regations deding with
technical reserves,
investments and admissible
assets have been promugated.
Legislation of Savings and    CFD          0 Regulation for savings and
Loan Instituions                             loan institutions is issued.
Lega Assisace              IDA             * Progress has been made in    * Staff are trined
training staff to undertake  * Texts are complete
legal duties.
* Legal deparm     has been
organized, with a mandate
and a work plan.
* Progress has been made in
drafting text.



ANNEX I
Guin7ea Findal Sector Operation                                                   62
Techical Assis            Finding                 Ist year                       2nd year
Componet               Agency
Banking Supervision       USAID & IDA   v Staff have been trained to
effectively supervise
commercial banks.
* Procedute manual for on- and
off-site supervision has been
established.
* Early waring system for off-
site supervision is operational.
* Procedure for reviewing
inpection reports with
commercial bank officials is
in place.
Supervision of Insurance  USAID           * Staff have been effectively
Companies                                    trained to supervise insurance
companies.
* Procedure manual for
effective on- and off-site
supermon has been
completed.
Regulation of Financial   IDA             0 Regulation has been prepared
Markets and Stockbrokers                     and promulgated.
* Supervision procedures have
been established.
Strategic Plan for the    CFD             * A viable financial and       * More local caisses have been
Development of Mutual                        operational plan for these    established in Conakiy.
Savings and Lo&n                            institutions has been
Institutions                                 developed.
* Project in Conalay has been
launched.
Study and Technical       IDA             * Fund has been launched with
Assistance Fund                              modest operations.
* Procedure manual is
completed.
Macroeonomic Unit         CIDA            0 Unit has been established.   0 Unit is fully operational.
* Equipment has been installed.
* Staff training has begun.
Training Center           IDA             * Equipment has been installed.   * Training Center is fu11y
* Administrative staff has been  operational with an annual
trained.                      training program.
* Classes and seminar are
being provided on a scheduled
basis.



ANNEX U
Gubwa Findal Sector Operation                                                       63
Technical Asistance        Funding                 Ist year                       2nd year
Component              Agency
Documentation Center and    Unidentified   * Equipment
Ardhives                                      (photocopiers/shelves, etc) has
been purchased and installed.
*   Proceduaes for
document filing,
retrieval and archiving
have been developed.
Mnistry of Fhance:
Development of the         IDA             * Staff are hired.              0 Staff are participating in
Division Monme et CrMdit                    Staff are trained to actively   elaborating monetary policy
monitor economic variables.    and regulaton of financial
institutions.
Mistry of Jizce
Drafting of Legal Texts   IDA              * Progress has been made on
updating texts which include
accelerated recovery
procedures and "saisie
conservatoire".
* Local staff are beirg trained
in preparing legal texts.
Publication of Court      IDA              * Legal decisions are published
Decisions                                    on a regular basis.
* Plan has been developed to
ensure financial and
operational sustainability.
Establishment of a         IDA             * Hardware and software are in
Computerized Data Bank                        place.
* Staff are trained.
* Procedures are established to
input and retrieve data.
Development of a Land      CFD                                             0 A land registry has been
Registry                                                                     established and is operational.
Information Campaign      II)A             * Procedus have been            * Information continues to be
developed to disseminate       diseminated to the public.
information.
* Information campaign has
been launched.
Strengthening the Clerk of   IDA           * Equipment has been
Court                                         purchased and is operating.
General Inspection of      IDA                Cars have been purhased.
Judicial Service                           * Periodic, scheduled reviews
are made of jurisdictions.



ANNEX II
Gsdea Fbwsada Seto Opetio                                                            64
Tecnic  As _stance         Fundlg                  Ist year                       2nd year
Component              Agency
Supreme Court of Justice   IDA             * A trang progr  has been
formulated.
Establishment of a         Unideatified    * Premises have been            * Libray is operational.
Specialized Libray                            estabished.
* Librarian has been selected
and tained.
Renovation of the Traing    PAC            * Trainig center has been       * Center has developed an
Center                                       renovated and is operational.   organized taing program.
da Isu
Global Needs Assessment    USAID           * Assessmen has been
completed and training plan
developed.
Seminarslcourses           multi-donor                                     * Seminars and courses
emphasizing financial and
credit analysis and accounting
methods are underway.



ANNEX m
(su bwa kitmia Sector Operatio                                             65
Translation-
June 10, 1994
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FINANCIAL SECTOR OPERATION
LETTER OF SECTORAL DEVELOPMENT POLICY
1.    The financial sector (banks, isurance companies, and savings and loan
institutions) plays a findamental role in the Gunean economy, serving as one of the
major driving forces of economic growth. Financial institudons provide economic agents
with the means of payment and financial resources they need, and mobilize savings for
reinvestment in the economy. They also furnish coverage for different risks.
2.    Guinea's financial sector comprises: (a) the Central Bank of the Republic of
Guinea; (b) six commercial banks; (c) four insurance companies; (d) two ural credit
projects; (e) a social security institution; (0) several funds and lines of credit established
by donors; and (g) a large informal sector. There is no financial market.
3.    Despite major efforts during the 1980's to resucture the fiancial sector,
(liquidation of six state bans, reform of the Central Bank, establishment of five new
commercial banks and four insurance compames) serious problems still affect both the
regulatory and judicial framework and the financial insions themselves.
4.    The environment within which financial institutions operate is in need of major
reform. Monetary policy instruments are undeveloped. Regulatory and supvisory
anisms are still rudimentary where insurance companies and savings and loan
instutions are concerned, while those applicable to conmmcial banks are in need of
reinorcement. The judicial system does not offer financial institutions the support they
need in such areas as bad debt recovery or conact enforcme.
5.    Commercial banks have been suffering from a high level of non-peforming loans.
At the same time, they had difficulty in finding outlets for their excess liquidity, which
was deposited in non-interest bearing accounts at the Cental Bank. This explains the
foreign exchange position held by banks abroad, which are in breah of prudential
regulations. CommercW bank income was mainly derived from foreign exchmge
operations rater than from traditional banlkng activities. On the other hand, the informal
market is very active in the cities as well as in the ural areas. The lack of penetration of
the formal financial sector is illustrated by the low MIIGDP ratio, which, at 7%, is less
than half the average ratio for SubSabaran Africa, and a currency/M2 ratio of 47%,
which is amongst the highest in comarison to other Afrcan countries.
6.    To ensure the success of Guinea's adjustment program, it wifl need to be
supported by a healthy financial sector capable of efficiently mobilizing domestic
resources and enabling borrowers to obtain fumds at the lowest cost c s     with
the risks involved.



ANNEX m
Gade Faadal Sector Operaion                                                66
7.    With this objective, tie Govermnent has implemeed a fLncial sector reform
program, and has asked the World Bank to support its efforts with an adjustment credit.
The program bas three major components: (a) strengthening the monetary, regulatory,
fiscal and judicial environment; (b) increasing the volume of business intermediated by
institutions in the formal sector; and (c) institutional strenening of operators.
8.    A number of measures have already been taken. A Treasury Bills auction market
has been launched. A Central Bank direcdve issued in September 1993 established
reserve requirements of 7% of bank deposits in Guinean francs and foreign exchange. A
directive on risk concentration and another on bank loan classification were issued in June
1993. The establishment of private exchange bureaus have been authorized. A program
to train Central Bank staff in methods of regulation and supervision of banks and
insurance companies has begun. Interest rates were deregulated in early July 1993. All
rates will be tied to the auction rate.
9.    One commercial bank, which was facing difficulty has been restuctured with a
major participation by its private partner; another has been recapitalized and discussions
are ongoing with a potential new private partner. With the aid of donors, Credit Rural
and Credit Mutuel are developing rapidly.
10.   In terms of the judicial fiamework, the round-table held in Conakry in October
1992, on the role and place of justice in Guinea's development revealed major
indequacies and weaknesses within Guinea's judicial framework. Following the round-
table, the Government initiated a systematic policy designed to strengthen Guinea's
judicial apparatus. Achievements to date include: the establishment of a Supreme Court;
the creation of a data bank of legal texts; establishment of a Conseil Sup6rieur de la
Magistrature; enactment of a Land Tenure Code; and enactment of Parts I, I and M of
the Code of Economic Activity.
L REFORM OF TH ENVIRONMENT
11.   The environment in which the financial institutions operate is influenced by:
(a) monetary policies; (b) the regulatory and supervisory framework; (c) the taxation
system; (d) the judicial apparatus; and (e) the degree of govement participation ir the
capital and management of the financial institutions. Each of these compones will be
discussed below.
Monetay policy
12.   The Government intends to pursue the development of indirect instuments of
monetary control. With the implementation of reserve requirements and the development
of a Treasury Bill market, refinancing will lose some of its importance. The Central
Bank intends to constitute a portfolio of Treasury Bills, and as soon as the money market
raches the required level of development, it will engage in open market operations. The
introduction of an auction market for Treasury Bills and the development of a proper
money market, as discussed below, will make it possible to detenmine a market rate of
interest that reflects the supply of and demand for funds in Guinea. This rate can serve as
a basis for the establishment of all domestic interest rates.



ANNEX III
Giea uwna Sector Cperaden                                                    67
Regulation nd supevion of finanil nstituions
13.   A new Central Bank Act and commercial bank legislation have been approved by
the Cabinet and promlgated. The solvency and liquidity ratios have been amended. The
minimum capital will be raised.
14. Savings and loan institutions such as Crtdit Rural and Cr6dit Mutuel are
unregulated. The Govemment will prepare specifc regulations appropriate to insttutions
of this type, designed to preserve their particular character. The new banking legislation
contains special nrles and exemptions for mutalistic institutions, and specific directives
will be issued.
15.   Legislation on insurance conracs and insurance companies will also be prepared.
This legislation will devote particular attention to life insurance and mutual insurance
companies where legislation does not exist. It will be accompanied by prudential
directives dealing, inter alia, with technical reserves and admissible investments. A
schedule of claims settlement will be introduced. Procedures for out-of-court settlement
and arbitration will be introduced, to avoid overburdening the courts. Lastly, the
Government will address dereguation of automobile insurance premiums. Regulations
will also be prepared governing insurance intermediaries and brokers.
16. A new regulatory framework will be prepared for Caisse Nationale de Securite
Sociale (CNSS), comprising prudential directives related to its financial management and
mechanisms for supervising these prdential regulations will be established to ensure
safety of social savings.
17. Regulations governing the issue of securities and the stockbroker function will be
i     ced to promote financial market development.
18. Measures will be taken to strengthen supervision of fiDancial institutions. Where
commercial banks and credit establishments operatig under the banking legislation are
concerned, the responsibility for supervision will be shared between the banking section of
BCRG which reports to the credit division and is in charge of off-site supervision, and the
inspectorate, in charge of on-site supervision. The division of responsibilities between
these two sections will be clearly established. A mamal of procedures for off-site and on-
site supervision will be prepared. A uniform accounting plan will be introduced. In
particular, procedures will be clearly established for inspection reports to be discussed
with the management of the institutions concerned, and for follow-u:; action to be taken to
correct any anomalies noted during the inspection process. An early warning system will
be established as part of the off-site supervision process. An expatriate expert now
provides assistance to the on-site inspectorate. This arangement will continue and be
strengthened.
19.   Supervision of savings and loan institutions will also be the responsibility of the
two sections in charge of bank supervision within the Central Bank. However, only the
central units of these institutions will be supervised. They will, in tum, supervise their
respective local units.



ANNEX m
Gtdmea 1,mdd &am Scor perado                                             68
20.   The insurance section at the Central Bank wil be stengthened. In particular, the
services of a technical assitant specializing in isuramnce regulation and supervision will be
retained to coordinate the training of ispeo  and provide technical support on an
ongoing basis. A uniform accounting plan will be introduced for insurance cnes.
21.   Certain bank and insurace companies have convnion d'aNissement
exempting them from supervision by the tutelary authority and also from rserve
reqrments. The Government will not renew those conventions to elininate such
anomalies.
Taxto  of flumdal istitutions
22.   The Governn'ent will review the system of taxation applicable to financial
institutions and instrumen, in an effort to eliminate the distortions created in financial
choices and financial inedition by the existng system.
Government partidpation In the capital and mngefent of finanial Insitudons
23.   Within the framwork of privatizaion and support for private sector development,
Government will continue to disengage itself from the capital and management of financial
institutions.
24.   To strengthen the support provided by the judicial system in the recovery of bad
debts and enforcteme  of financial conacts, Government intends to adopt a three-der
global approach:
(a)   drafting, enacting and publishing certain pieces of basic legislation;
(b)   restucuwing tie judicial environment; and
(c)    icing legal trainng and an information dissminaion policy.
25.   Drafting, enacting and publishing the following tens will receive prority
attention:
(a)    Part IV of the Code of Economic Activity, concering the financial
implications of economic activity including, in particular, the banking
laws, new legislaton on insurance companies and insurace contcts, and
comprehensive legislation on means of payment (checks, bills of
exchange, etc.);
(b)   legislation reforming and simplifying methods of execution (accelerated
execution, provisional execution, atahment); and
(c)   a manual of procedures to be used by the enterprises' Centre de
Formalite.



ANNEX m
G rwa Rnanswi Settor Opn                                                   69
26.   To improve the judicial environment, Goverment will implement a global reform
of the country's judicial strucre. This reform will encompass activities designed to
increase the efficiency and rapidity of the cour' response to cases brought before them:
(a)    within budgetary constaints, Goverment will establish a multi-year plan
to improve the salaries of judges and clerks of the court;
(b)    Governent will simplify the judicial apparatus by reducing the number of
jursdictions and requiring that judges trained in fincial maes  be
appointed within those jurisdictions,
(c)   in the same spirit, Goverment will publicize a detailed schedule of fees
for the execution of legal tractions and will reguarly publish decisions
of the courts and those issued by the Conseil Sup6rieur de la Magistrature
in disciplinary mas;
(d)   simultaneously, two computerized databanks will be set up, one containing
the texts of Guinean laws and the other the decisions of the comu
(inchlding the Supreme Court);
(e)   in addition, the establsbment of a land regitry for the Conalay
communes will make it possible to validate deeds and record mortages,
tus facilitating the enforcemen of guarantees and related credit
development;
(t)    fiurtemore, Government should capitalize immediately on the knowledge
and experience of Guinean judges trained abroad, by assigning them to
positions of responsibility; and
(g)   lastly, in view of the serious lack of facilties at several of the country's
courthouses, Govemment will provide the equipment and supplies needed
for the operation of the judicial system, staring with the courthouses in
Conakry and improving the facilities of other jurisdictions.
27.   Training remains a priority. The following measures will be taken:
(a)    within the framework of the conminumg training center at the Ministry of
Justice, courses in economic law will be developed, emphasizing subjecs
with a financial focus, such as banking law, exchange lw, contrct law
and insurance law;
(b)   seminars to dissmnate and explain the content of the new legislation will
be held regularly, and adequately publicized. The same procedure will
apply to seminars concring the ethics of the diffe rent aspects of the legal
profession;
(c)   following a number of requests, Govement will install legad libraies
accessible to law professionals, iniially at dte Ministry of Justice, and
later in jurisdictions outside the capit;



ANNEX HI
Guinea Ruacial Scor Operation                                            70
(d)   Government, aware also of the benefits to be obtained by disseminating
information of economic law, will establish a compendium of specimen
deeds and contracts to facilitate the task of the economic operators and law
professionals; and
(e)   finally, the Government will develop an audiovisual and press campaign to
disseminate information on the judicial system and principal laws relating
to financial and economic activity, thus enabling all citizens to become
more familiar with their legal institutions and positive law; and
Government has entrusted the Round-Table Monitoring Committee with monitoring
implementation of these measures.
II. REFORMIG THE STRUCTURE OF THE GUINEAN FINANCIAL SECTOR
28.   The Government's objective is to develop the formal financial sector and diversify
the services it offers to savers and borrowers. A first step is to encourage the
development of banking activities. Measures designed to strengthen the environment will
help achieve that objective. The measures discussed below are aimed at developing the
formal financial sector and building a bridge between the formal and informal sectors.
These include: (a) liberalization of foreign exchange transactions; (b) development of
fmancial markets; (c) development of muualistic savings and loan insttutions; and
(d) development of support mechanisms for SMEs and micro-enterprises.
iberaliatlon of the exchange market
29.   A large munber of foreign exchange transactions take place on the informal
market both in Conakry and in other parts of the country. These involve existing foreign
exchange resources that arrive in the country without the support of the Central Bank.
They are not generally available at the commercial banks for use by clients involved in
import operations. It is important to bring back some of these foreign exchange resources
to the formal banking sector and make them available to all economic operators. For this,
the Government has authorized the opening of foreign exchange bureaus.
30.   The Government will continue the liberalization process, reducing commissions
charged on exchange transactions and gradually eliningdw the restrictions on the opening
of foreign exchange deposit accounts at the commercial banks. In addition, the
Government will encourage the mng companies to bring funds into the bankig system.
Development of financial markets
31.   The development of financial markets is an evolutionary process beginming with
the establishment of a money market. The Government has already laid the groundwork
by implemening an auction Treasury Bill market. The BCRG will submit a reserve bid
at each auction to ensure that interest rates do not deviate too far from the goals
determined by monetary policy requirements. The development of the auction market will
make it possible for money market rates to be set by the interplay of supply and demand.
The banks will acquire the status of primary dealers in the money market.



ANNEX III
Guinea FuWial &ctor Operadon                                               71
32.   Govermnent hopes that, in time, a secondary market in Treasury Bills wili
develop among the principal participants, with the commercial banks acting as
intermediaries. It would also be desirable for the commercial banks to issue their own
short-term paper for trading on the money market. The BCRG will in due couse
consider including such paper in its portfolio.
33.   It is important to develop instruments for the mobilization of long-term savings
and privatization of enterprises. Stockbrokers will first of all conduct over-the-counter
transactions in these instruments. The commercial banks will acquire the status of
stockbrokers. Venture capital companies will offer long-term financing to Guinean
operators.
Development of savings and loan Instiutions
34.   Commercial banks are not geared to cater to the needs of small borrowers and
savers. The experience of Cr6dit Mutuel and Credit Rural reveals that there are
alternative mechanisms for mobilizing savings and extending credit with a high rate of
recovery. Government will encourage the development of these two groups of
institutions. In particular, Govemment will promote their conversion from projects into
full-scale financal institutions. These mechanisms, which comprise a large number of
local units and a central unit playing the role of central banker, adviser and tutelary
authority to the local units, will serve to build a bridge between operators in the informal
sector and the commercial banks.
35.   Credit Mutuel and Credit Rural operate outside Conakry. It is necessary to
develop similar mechanisms in the capital. To preserve the specific character of CrEdit
Mutual and Credit Rural, the mechanisms set up in Conakry will have a different identity
and management, although mergers might be contemplated in the longer term. The
Government proposes to encourage the creation of mutualistic savings institutions in
Conakry, with a fuUly private sector management.
36.   Govermnent believes that there is an urgent need to develop mechanisms to
finance housing. To this end, the Government will rely on commercial banks and savings
and loan institutions.
Suppot mechaisms
37.   The costs of loan processing and the risks involved would be lower if small
borrowers were to submit better credit applications, develop credible business plans, and
deal professionally with their banker after receiving a loan. It is essental to assist small
borrowers in the preparation of their credit applications, negotiation with financial
institutions and follow-up of loam extended. This is the objective of the Study and
Technical Assistance Fund which has been established and which will be managed by a
small group composed of representatives from the BCRG, commercial banks and OPIP.



ANNEX 111
Ginea Fianial Sector Operanon                                             72
III. INSTUTION BUILDING
38.   Institution building will target the Central Bank, the Ministry of Planning and
Finance, and the financial institutions. A large part of this institution building consists of
providing training for employees of the BCRG, the Ministry of Finance, the financial
institutions and the judiciary system. To ensure tat the training is properly targeted and
to avoid costly duplications, the Goverrnent and donors will cooperate to formulate a
global strategy for the training of operators on the financial scene.
The Centr  Ba
39.   The Central Bank plays a leading role in the implementation of monetay and
exchange policy and in regulation and supervision of the financial institutions. The
following measures will be taken to enable the Central Bank to successfully perform its
functions: (a) a new Central Bank Act has been enacted and the new internal management
organs wiln be put in place shortly; (b) a functional analysis will be conducted with a view
to computerize the entire institution; (c) the archive and documentation services will
modernized; (d) a macroeconomic unit will be put in place to monitor macro and financial
variables and design monetary and interest rate policy; (e) strengthening of the capacities
of BCRG officers in macro-analysis and regulation and supervision of the financial
institutions will be continued; (f) a back-up telecommunications network will be put in
place; and (g) a training center will be established to train employees of the Centra Bank,
financial institutions, economic and financial operations and magistrates.
40.   The Central Bank will continue to receive technical assistance in the form of both
ongoing and short-term, punctual interventions.
Mistry of Panning and Finance
41.   Given the primary role of the Ministry of Finance in the conception, formulation
and inplementation of the Government's economic policy, and given the interrelation
between economic and monetary policy, a continuous constructive dialogue is needed
between the Central Bank and the Ministry. Consequently, the success of a financial
sector reform program will result from common efforts on the part of both insituions.
In this context, some aspects of monetary and financial policy require studies that deeply
involve the Central Bank and the Ministry to impart a great dynamism to the financial
sector. Thus, for the Ministry to be able to adequately fulfill its functions, certain
measures will be taken:
(a)    Relevant services of the Ministry (especially the DNI) will be
strengthened through training of staff and acquisition of equipment to:
(i) facilitate the dialogue with BCRG; and (ii) pursue relevant reflections
on modernization of the financial sector.
(b)   A comnunications system will be put into place to permit access in real
time to ban' data relative to financial operations of the public sector in
the prospect of unification of Treasury accounts at the Central Bank.



ANNEX III
Guinea Finandal Sector Opefaaon                                            73
Co_nedal bah 
42.   The commercial bank have made additional provisions.
43.   One commercial bank, BIAG, has been recapitalized by Govermment with a
subordinated loan. It has been placed under interim administration while a long-term
solution is sought. Dicussions ar ongoing with private investors. The BIAG would
have an investment window.
44.   The Govenmment and the Central Bank will encourage commercial banks to take
the necesary measures to strengthen their loan analysis and follow-up capacities as well
as their internal control procedures. The banks will also be strongly encouraged to
provide traimng programs for their staff.
Otber institutions
45.   Where necessary, the Government will initiate action for insurance companies
who have insufficient capital, to recapitalize as soon as possible.
46.   The Government is confident that the reform program will give the financial
sector a new lease on life, making it fully capable of supporting the Government's
adjustmnt program. The measures to be taken, with a precise timetable, are shown in
the attached matrix.



ANNEX IV
Gdaa Fkw4al S&Mr .    a                                                                     74
REUBIC OF GUINA
FINANCIAL SECTOR OPERATION
Polic Maltrix
ORIECTIVES                                           ACTIONS                                 CALENDAR
L Reform of the Envnient
A. Monetary anW Inest Rate Poli-Y
Lealizaon of interes rates                                                                        Effective
Deveopmem of ndict histrumen                     Reestablish   erve requirements                  Effecdtve
Introduce open maket operatons                   July 1993
B. Reauldon and SL onnsignoFillncia
Strenening of regulation                         Promugate new bankig legisilaon and issue        Effective
modified prudental directives for commercial banks.
according to need
Promulgate reised legislaion on urance conucs    Mach 1995
and insurance companies and issue prudea         (condio for second erancit
direcdves. according to need                     rclease)
Issue reguladon for insure agents and            March 1995
buermediaries
Intoduce schedule of claims and arbitraton       Math  1995
procedure for insurance claims                   (condtion for second  anche
reeas)
Modify e schedule of autombile iance             July l99S
premium to make it mre flexible
Prepare nd issue legiston for munmalisc savings    Match 1995
and loan instuions                               (conditonfor second &rncie
rekase)
Establsh egulation for public securies offerins and  March 1995
the function of securites dealers                (condionfor second irwnche
rclease)
Strengtheng of supervision                           Strengten the section of BCRG in charge of       In progress
supervision of nurance companies                 (condion for second trache
release)
Stghen the section of BCRG in charge of          December1994
supervision of commecial banku                   (conditon for second troncie
rekase)
C Cearly define the mandate of two sections of
SCRG in charge of spervising commrcial bhs



ANNEX IV
Gidna FinaiW Secr 'perawn                                                                    75
OMJECTIVE                                             ACTIONS                                 CALENDAR
* Establish an arly wamring system for off-site
supervision of financial insiuftions
*  Develop a pfocedure manual for the supervision
of banks (inclading on-site procedures for
discussions and follow-up on inspection reports
witb bank staftO.
*  Pesnce of a residem expert to perform on-the-
job tabig.
Implemet a uniform accounting plan for commercial July 1996
banks
Develop a procedure manual for the supetvision of  July 1995
insurance companes
hIplement a uniform accounting plan for insurance    July 1996
companies
Establish mechanism  for supervision of savings and    March 1995
loan instidons                                   (condinon for second tranche
rekease)
Establish mechnism to regulate financial markets  December 199S
and supervise securities dealers
C. IlQ
Remove disincenves to fi   l i dton               Review provisions of taxation code dealing wth    Decmber 199S
ased by taXation                                  savings, financia institutions and securities markets
D. udinr n
Modernizatio of kgal texts                        Draft and adopt the -Code des activitis economiques-
(economic activities code)
- 3rd part and                                   Effective
* 4th part (inluding particularly the banks and the    March 1995
insurance law).
Take measures to ensue adequate compliance with  Sepmbr  1994
rks of professional conduct by members of die
judticir
Draft and promulgate specific texts to be        March 1995
incorporated in the 'Code de proc6dure civile et  (conditom for second ranche
commerciale (Code of Civil and Conmercial        rekase)
Prcedure) on:
* accelerated procdures for debt recovery:
o aew procedues for die execution of judgements;
Draft and promulgawe crimial laws telaing to     march 199S
commerce (to be incorporated in the criminal code):
e.g. checks writen against insufficient funds
frauduent conveyances. etc.



ANNEX IV
QaL,arm Raadu sew r*                                                                      76
OBIECTIES                                          ACTIONS                                CALENDAR
Elaborate and prepare an administradve and      March 199S
procedures manual for the Center for Enterprise
Forinalimes
Strnteing of judicil appatus                     Begin implementation within budget constraints of a    Sepember 1995
multaul plan to adjust the saluries of magigrates   (start)
and clerk of court
Eliminate caution adjudicatun solvit (payment in  December t994
court to prevent flight from dth jurisdiction by
foreign plaintiffs)
Promugate a law reorganizing the jiudiy         July 1995
(inccludig the establishmen of cbambers or cours
speciaized in economic law)
Draft and adopt a schedule of fees for processing  March 1995
judicial claims (including execution of judgements by   (condion for seond meke
dte 'buissiers, attd filing fees. etc.)         relese)
Create and publish regudary a jounl containg     anuay 1995
legal decisions, and deveop a data bank of      (coion fer swcond  tdne
jurisprudence                                   rels)
Begin opeation of a disciplinary council ('conseil de   Effective
discipline-) within the Superior ludicial Counsel and
publish the decision
Establish a land registry in Conakry to ensure the  September 1994
validi of real pmper titles and the regiato of   (star)
morpages
Trining of the judiciy corps and economic        Create a trainig cener for magistates. legal    lanuay 1995
operats                                          professionals, and efoment oftfcs
Organkz trgeted semnas for judges, lawyers, cour   S mbaer 1994
clerks, sheriffs, enforcement officers to:      (start)
facit  th diffusion and vulgarizaton of new
lws and regulations;
* explain ethics principles applicable to the ble
profession
Prepare a media campaign for the diuMion of legd    In progress
inration to: inform economic opatos of new
economic laws ad explain tir relkvance to dhem;
Establish a legal ibrary                        Septmber 199
I. Reform the Sbtuture of the F_Inn          Sector
-Development of a moey market                    issue Teasuly Bills                              Effective
Develop an auction market for Treasury Bills    Effective
Conmerial banks to obtain the stus of priary    Effecdve
dealers in tie money market



w
 I
!iii    x          I. 'I
111      It        I                 I.       I    r
U
11:1.              1                 a
H                    III    I
S                     I
S     Ej                  I
U
 
     .g'.W e    2 w
.E         W 30
3                  Iii'                           
8 
w  "
.
 j WI  g                             ti  44
  I        I            ii  
k  I        -            I                            ii
I                     -                    3
i.                     .  4
OQj          I..uo
    g.               ew
0W
: i         1j.    ii
0                                    5 
z

I          .      a.           i1o



ANNEX 1V
Giedea P wincal Sewor Q-pradon                                                               78
OBJECTIVES                                            ACrIONS                                 CALENDAR
C. Ministr of Plan and Fbae
Developmet of capacity to paicpate in he          Stren the Direction Nadonate du Tr6sor            July 1995
frmulation of monetary policy and regulaton of
fin.ncial nstitutions                             *  Develop the capacity of the DNT to participate in
discussions on monetary policy and regulation of
ftnnial insftuions
* Train personnel in macroeconomic, frnancial and
banking, analysis, projet appraisal and
mobilization of savings. This training will be
given at the Trauiing Center of the BCRG,
although it may be offered (for short duations) in
other African counties. France and United States
through short-erm courses
*  Purchase of supplies, office fumiture
(photocopying machines. micro-compters, desks,
chairs)
D. Cor&mrc&ie&an
Reucring and strengthening of banks               Restruc   BIG                                     Effective
Restructure, merge or liquidae BIAG
E. N                                                 Establish pnukntal norms and mechanism to        Februay 1995
supervise te inplementation of these norms in ways   (condition for second unche
satfacty tto IDA                                 release)



ANNEX V
Ginea Finani Sector Operation                                           79
Bank Lendng Program: FY94-98 by Sector 1/
(Percentage ditbution)
FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
DA    DA   MIA   IDA   mA
ToW (US$ millon)             246.0    117.0    124.5    100.0    38.2
EQUlyLnding
SAL m                                           52.2
Capacity Building                      10.3
Agdgd=l
Agriculure Services                                      25.0
Agriculture Sector                                       25.0
Rural Resource Management                       10.8
Infratgm
Urban Enviromnent: Conakry                      20.9
Third Water                                     16.1
Road Sector Management                 25.6
Population and Human Rcsogces
Health and Nutrition Sector   100.0
Higher Education                       5.1
Social Fund                                                       47.1
Equity and School                      39.3
Indu=r and Enermv
Power III                                                50.0
Mining Sector Mgmt (R)                                            52.9
Financial Sector                       19.7
llLending Program as of Ju  14, 1994



ANNEX V
Fuinea a'mdac  Secor Operaton                                                                                    80
Status of Bank Group Operation
Smmary Stent of Loan and IDA Credits
.-~~~~~~~~ In gg   Ilo
1m  og                                                                                                    V.11.- co5a
Crots
29 Cr.ditt(m  cle.                                                                               446.37
Cr?50-UG      1917   inmnia                            SrSzm       S=  iUn                       9.60       3.10  132/9IUt
C18370-uIS    2966    SZunm                             M/OWTiU                                 19.70       1.30  0430/95(2)
CISM4-Ma    is$:   GUDWL                                mAUC.uXM                                 ,.oo       tAee  64/309$(Iu
c19150-VS     196*    =n'.                             HEMMUx Wv                                55.00      21.432  10/31/94(5)
01955040    Lost    iunimt                             RUUIA     zzruII                         16.40        .57  LV113194
019050-MO    1969    SIltS?                            mm1  3                                   40.00      13.84  10131M9
C71993"Sfo    1969    WInE                             iDMR                                      9.00       *.o,  12/31194
020480-mi     1990    SULt?                            IOUsIII a 13138*  K                       6.00       3.79  0W4/3095(al
021-0600    1990    oltD                               Nu? 31331 WRASMUC                        40.00      16.32  1Z/31/9S
ct1ue106      1990    SIIwn                             8t. n                                   17.00      43.45  12/3119s
C339600-5     1992    53333?                           e.g. 38*08                                7.30       6.0113119
02400-Mi      1993    GU=8                             ? Uol   1:IW                             3.         J6.:1   1/ 311
C24L60-36     1993    5539                             1089=                                    50.00      40.41  LU31197
MM44-36I   1993   51 39                                tU363Z23I                                14.60       6.41  12131195
C2570S0    1994         U                              ISS3m9.eeM.SCM                           34.4       25.17  04/30/01
to    nuerCrate s ssed   w    15                                                                  363.20     31.068
3 Lowe Cs) closed                                                                    13.5*
3116rs olo..   Lea      55259s.o .2UVS
40233. number Uons. -    0
TOM***                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~73.50  651.57
of Ct2ch tle                           .S                          73.60         5.94
t043?. held by teak a 1e.s .00                                                   645.62
asmut sodaI
of 'Ai?. Roe"5
to*  Uad"b"*es                                                                             2119.86
AoS1eS:   s        Z     0
Mat yt          OeUtAv.
Not y-t signsd
.Total Approfi Repqerwaft  sd OeUtatad*   baleane zqweast bath sactv, U4 LnaotL.e t U .aend Creats.
(I  InAIcate fameUy "Vsew1e  c1oiai Date..
(8I IndCAte  6JS302   T.oa ed                                                                                  21eSIt..
VW Not Approed NMI ftak Repyents a" kleta.ice vein, au  others a" naskt value.
the  gUg     , SfgUctfve, and clopan date  ae boned Ops  th  Loon 0spaztsat offlcal data ma  age not ten
fss. am, l"k 8.1c.  file.



ANNEX V
G!dnea Finaial Scor Operaon                                               81
Sunmary of IFC Investments
(as of February 28, 1994)
Orgl Gros Commimet
USS/mhi
Fiscal  Company                          Type of         Lan      Equity   Total
Year                                     Business
1983    SociWt Mixte Aredor Guin6e S.A.    Diamond          13.6      1.2    14.8*
Mining
1986    Banque Internationale pour le    Commercial            -      1.0      1.0
Commerce et de l'Industrie de la  Bank
Guinke (BICI-GUTI)
1987    Societe iternationale des Granites    Research and  0.1        -     0.1*
Marbres et Roches Assimilees     Development
(SIGMAR)
1988    Auritbre de Guin6e               Gold Mining         7.5        -      7.5
Total Commitinents                                  21.2      2.2     23.4
Less Cancelations, Repayments,                      14.0      1.2     15.2
Sales and Exchange Adjustments
Net Commitmens Now Held by                           7.2      1.0      8.2
IFC
(*) Investnents paid off
Investments approved but not
committed
1993    Grand Hotel de l'Ind6pendence    Tourism             3.5      0.9      4.4
1994    Ciment de Guin6e                 Manuatring          1.5       -       1.5



ANNEX VI
GOinea Fnndcal Sctor Operasin                                                 82
TIMEWABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1.    Sector Work Mission Deparhte                      May 1992
2.    Identification Mission Departure                  October 1992
3.    First Preparation Mission Departure               April 1993 .
4.    Green Cover Financial Sector Review               June 1993
5.    Second Preparation Mission Depaure                July 1993
6.    Regional Loan Committee Review of IM              October 1993
7.    Pre-appraisal Mission Departure                   October 1993
8.    Bank-wide Loan Comiittee Review of IM             March 1994
9.    Appraisal Mission Departr                         April 1994
10.   Negotiations                                      June 1994
11.   Board Presenation                                 Septmber 1994
12.   Planned Date of Effectiveness                     September 1994
List of Relevant PCRs and PPARs
PCR: Private Sector Promotion Credit             March 31, 1994



IBRD 2579
MAURITANIA                                         12-                               10
I   Y -NtALt-                       S E N E G A L                                                                  M          
GUINESEN GA
oAr S                                                                                                             I? / 1A
.4                            I -                                   1C   I                                                12.<A      >,, 
AN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
BISSAU      &
~~~~~- -idRes  ->- /\'.
10*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E  I N E                             A IRi  OETRGOvit;w 
FZINANCL1L SCOR OP!RATIN                 * InleoffOlionl Aiiport              ,,t01     
-    . u Rue Swvicsd AudpPod P roje7 c,t
-     N    a ~ ~~~ RegionBo.a,ie                      r I                       
r5- TLANTIC                                 --Int.mationatundaner                W- *                         ,       
Ralod                    FI16S LIBERIA
AGUOCEA N N                                   A-rJ
A T L   A N  --T hE5Ot'10'0J I B     -c  
s ,-0 ' ;
,K,,   , ,,"   ,,,    ,e,,   , Se,.&  ......  L    . h                         Hl9'



