The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19588
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2653-GUI)
July 27, 1999
Private Sector Finance
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
performance of their official duties. Its content may not otherwise be disclosed
without the World Bank authorization.



EXCHANGE RATE
Currency unit: Guinean Franc (GNF)
1 US Dollar: GNF 1,335.25
(as of July 6, 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
1 January - 31 December
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCP:        Banque Centrale Populaire
BCRG:       Banque Central de la Republique de Guine
BIAG:       Banque Internationale pour IA'frique en Guin6e
BICIGUI:   Banque Internationale pour le Commerce et l 'Industrie de la Guine
BIG:        Banque Islamique de Guin6e
BPMG:       Banque Populaire Marocco - Guineenne
FSAC:       Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
SAC I:      Structural Adjustment Credit I
SAC II:      Structural Adjustment Credit II
CNSS:       Caisse Nationale de Securite Sociale
DID:        Developpement International Desjardins
DMI         Daar Al Maal Al Islami
IMIF:       International Monetary Fund
IBEM:       Inter-Bank Exchange Market
GNP:        Gross National Product
SME:        Small and Medium Enterprises
TBR:         Treasury Bond Rates
UGAR:        Union Guineenne des Assurances et des Reassurances
UIBG:        Union Internationale de Banque en Guin6e
VAT:        Valued Added Tax
Vice President:                        Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:                      Mamadou Dia
Sector Manager:                        Gerard Byam
Task Team Leader:                      Cherif Azi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GUINEA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2653-GUI)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART  1: PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT ............................................1
B ackground      ...........................................                                                           1
Statement and Evaluation of Project's Objectives ........................                        ....................2
Achievement of Project Objectives ............................................3
Key Factors in Project Implementation Process ...................                           ........................8
Project Sustainability ............................................9
Bank's Performance ............................................9
Borrower's Performance ............................................9
Assessment of Outcome ........................................... 10
Main Lessons to be Learned ............................................ 10
Future Operations               ............................................. 11
PART  TWO: STATISTICAL  ANNEXES ........................................... 12
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ........................................... 12
Table 3: Project Timetables ........................................... 14
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Estimates and Actual ...........................................    14
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...........................................                        14
Table 6:  Studies Envisaged by the Project ..............                           ............................. 17
Table 7A: Project Cost ............................................ 17
SDR ...........................................                                                                      17
Table 7B: Project Financing (US$ million) ...........................................                                17
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................................                                     17
Table 9:  Status of Legal Provisions ........................................... 18
Table 10: Use of Bank Resources ...........................................  21
Table 11: Bank's Resources - Missions ...........................................                                   21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2653-GUI)
PREFACE
1.    This is the implementation completion report (ICR) for the Financial Sector
Adjustment Credit (FSAC) in the Republic of Guinea, for which a credit in the amount of
SDR 16,300,000 (US$23 million equivalent) was approved on October 19, 1994 and
became effective on December 23, 1994. The project consisted of a credit to support the
balance of payment of SDR 12.8 million (US$18 million equivalent), disbursed in two
equal tranches in March 1995 and August 1997, and a technical assistance credit of SDR
3.5 million (US$5 million equivalent). As of March 1999 an amount of SDR
16,036,674.00 had been disbursed and the balance of the credit, in an amount of SDR
263,326.00, was canceled.
2.    During implementation, the closing date, initially scheduled for March 31, 1997,
was extended twice, first to December 31, 1997 and then to December 31, 1998.
Disbursements ended on May 23, 1999.
3.    The Completion Report was prepared by Abdoulaye Yero Balde, Economist,
Operations Officer at the Resident Mission in Guinea-Conakry and reviewed by Sherri
Archondo, Financial Analyst, Operations Officer at the Resident Mission in Mozambique
and T. Mpoy-Kamulayi, Counsel (LEGAF). Kadjidja Keita, Assistant at the Resident
Mission, Amy Champion, Program Assistant (AFTP1) and Muriel Prah, Language Task
Assistant (AFTP1), helped to arrange the report.
4.    This ICR was prepared after the last supervision mission of the World Bank,
which took place in November 1998. It is based on project document records, the credit
agreement, aide-memoires, the Banque Centrale de la Republique de Guinee (BCRG)
annual reports and on discussions with the staff of the Bank as well as with the members
of the Guinean team involved in project preparation, appraisal and supervision. The
Borrower contributed to the ICR preparation through observations on the draft report and
by preparing its own project appraisal that is attached in Appendix B.






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CRIEDIT 2653-GUI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   In 1986, the Government of Guinea (GOG) embarked on a structural adjustment
process aimed at correcting the deep-seated macroeconomic imbalances inherited from
26 years of state planned economy. It started to liberalize the economy in order to lay the
foundation for strong and sustainable growth.
2.    GOG's efforts were supported by IDA through two consecutive Structural
Adjustment Credits, SAC I and II, the first in 1986 and the second in 1988. As a follow
up, IDA approved in 1994 a Financial Sector Adjustment Project (FSAC - Credit 2653-
GUI) with a credit in an amount of US$23 million equivalent, which became effective on
December 23, 1994 and closed on December 31, 1998.
Project's Objectives
3.    The overall objective of the FSAC was to promote the expansion of the private
sector through the reinforcement of the financial sector and the improvement of the legal
and institutional environment. More specifically, the project aimed at:
(a)   Strengthening  the  monetary, regulatory, supervisory  and judicial
environment of the financial sector;
(b)   Reforming the structure of the financial sector and developing a bridge
between formal and informal sectors to increase the reach of the financial
sector; and
(c)   Building upon the human resources base and improving institutional
capacity.
4.    To achieve these objectives, the project had four components: (i) the reform of the
environment; (ii) the restructuring of the financial sector; (iii) the institutional
restructuring and capacity building of institutions operating or involved in the operations
of the financial sector; and (iv) a technical assistance component to help implement the
reform program.



Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The overall outcome of the project is rated unsatisfactory. Regarding the first
objective, most of the reforms envisaged have been implemented although with important
delays. This has allowed the disbursement of the adjustment credit first tranche at
effectiveness in December 1994 and second tranche in August 1997.  However the
formally adopted new laws and regulations are still not properly enforced and, hence, had
a marginal impact on the functioning of the financial sector. A recent admission
(September 1997) by the Prime Minister states that: "in addition to the shortage of
reliable material or banking infrastructures, legal insecurity is furthermore almost total.
The investment climate is not very conducive to the outburst of enthusiasm within
business circles; besides, it even deters investors, especially foreigners, from running the
risk of investing in Guinea."
6.    In terms of strengthening financial institutions, measures related to the
achievement of this objective were not very successful. Of the four banks which were
restructured at the onset of the project, one was liquidated in 1997, and the three others
are still in the process of being recapitalized. A planned bridge between savings and loan
institutions and the formal banking sector never materialized. Furthermore, the most
important of these institutions, the Credit Mutuel, is presently in a very difficult financial
situation that requires an estimated GNF 13 billion of new capital.
7.    Finally, the technical assistance component was implemented with great delays
and the funds allocated to it were not fully disbursed. It remains to be seen whether the
training and equipment provided under this component yielded positive results.
Summary of Conclusions, Main Lessons Learnt and Future Operations
8.    The project succeeded in helping establish adequate formal rules and regulations
in a country that was under strong government planning and economically ill-managed. It
remains, however, to effectively implement the new laws and regulations. This is the
challenge that lays ahead and will be the ultimate test of whether or not this project has
laid the foundation for real improvement of the functioning of the financial sector.
9.    Several lessons could be learned from this project. The first lesson is that to
ensure successful implementation a project has to be kept simple, well focused and
priorities have to be well identified. A second lesson is that the capacity of the Borrower
to implement a project should be correctly assessed and measures to reinforce it, if
needed, taken well before project effectiveness. The third lesson is that a thorough
participatory approach in project preparation is paramount to ensure project ownership,
understanding of its objectives and proper identification of potential implementation
problems. In the case of this project, although the Government was committed to reforms,
the institutions in charge of project implementation were not fully aware of, or prepared
to undertake the role that they would be playing. A final lesson is that restructuring and
recapitalizing troubled banks without changing their ownership is a bad idea because it
does not deal with the cause of the problems.
11



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(CREDIT 2653-GUI )
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    For 26 years since, its independence in 1958, the Republic of Guinea had a
centrally planned economic system and was practically cut off from the outside world.
As a result, despite the rich potential of its agriculture, mines and hydro-generated
energy, the country's economic performance was very weak. Real GDP per capita
decreased by 11% between 1960 and 1965 and by 1% between 1965 and 1970. The
average real GDP growth per capita was only about 1% per year between 1970 and 1980.
The inefficiency of public enterprises (which additionally received government grants),
coupled with the extreme difficulties for the private sector to engage in economic
activities in the modern sector, soon led to a progressive weakening of public finances
and an important development of informal activities. In the early 80s, the Guinean
economy was practically bankrupt.
2.    With the change of the political regime in April 1984, the new government
embarked on establishing a free market economy. To this end, it undertook a program of
economic and financial reforms aimed at an in-depth restructuring of the national
economy, reducing the role of the state and giving impetus to the private sector to act as
the main driving force of economic growth.
3.    The first phase (1986-1988) of these reforms was characterized by a "shock
therapy" consisting mostly of the liquidation and/or privatization and restructuring of
state enterprises and downsizing of the civil service. In the financial sector, the national
currency was devalued; state banks and the National Insurance Company were liquidated
and replaced by new private commercial banks and insurance firms. The Central Bank
was also reorganized.
4.    The overhaul of the financial sector produced commendable results: deposits grew
from GNF 12.2 billion in 1986 to GNF 53.8 billion in 1989, GNF 148.4 billion in 1993 to
GNF 219.07 billion in 1997. Almost non-existent prior to the launching of the reforms,
bank credit to the private sector grew from GNF 9.7 billion in 1986 to 47.1 billion in
1989, GNF 115.5 billion in 1993 to GNF 187.43 billion in 1997. Credit to the private
sector represented 43% of total domestic credit in 1988 and more than 61% in 1997.
5.    However, despite efforts to restructure the financial sector, the euphoria of the
first period of the reform program faded away. Several newly created enterprises



experienced serious problems, affecting in turn the health of the banking system. Indeed,
tremendous problems remained to be solved both in the legal and regulatory framework
and within financial institutions.
6.    The environment in which financial institutions were operating was characterized
by inadequate monetary policy instruments, poor regulation and supervision of banks,
savings and lending, institutions and insurance companies. The judicial system was still
ineffective in the areas of bank loan recovery and enforcement of financial contracts. As
a result, commercial banks were faced with growing non-performing portfolios. At the
same time they had difficulties in finding profitable use for their excess liquidity. The
income of most banks derived mainly from financing import transactions rather than from
other lending activities. In the meantime, an active informal financial market operating
both in urban and rural areas developed rapidly. The shallowness of the formal financial
sector was characterized by a 7% M2/GDP ratio which was less than half of the average
ratio in Sub-Saharan Africa and a currency ratio/M2 of 47% which was one of the highest
in Africa.
7.    In order to bring the adjustment program of the Guinean economy to fruition, the
financial sector needed urgent strengthening in order to enable it to efficiently mobilize
domestic resources and, at the same time, facilitate access to credit for private sector
activities at a cost commensurate with risks. With this objective in mind, the Guinean
Government launched, with the Bank's assistance, a reform program of the financial
sector. IDA's most significant intervention in the Guinean financial sector began with
the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit-FSAC.
8.    This credit helped to bring about a number of improvements in the financial
sector and judicial system.   Monetary management was enhanced through the
liberalization of interest rates and the development of indirect monetary instruments such
as reserve requirements and open market operations. The Banque Centrale de la
RNpublique de Guinee (BCRG) was provided support to regulate and supervise financial
institutions. The judicial system was strengthened through the technical assistance
support provided by the project for upgrading the judicial system and training judicial
personnel. Several legal texts, such as the Code of Economic Activities, were approved.
9.    However, efforts should continue to be pursued both in the judicial and financial
sectors. Lack of speedy and fair justice still remains an obstacle to private investments,
hindering, therefore, the emergence of a dynamic private sector. In the financial sector,
the situation of banks is still fragile (despite having been restructured at the beginning of
the project, one bank - BIAG - recently had to be liquidated). Out of the six commercial
banks operating in Guinea, three had to be restructured in 1998.
Statement and Evaluation of Project's Objectives
10.   The objectives of the adjustment program to be supported by the project were to:
(a)    Strengthen the monetary, regulatory, supervisory and judicial environment
of the financial sector;
2



(b)   Restructure the financial sector and develop a bridge between formal and
informal sectors to increase the reach of the financial sector; and
(c)   Build upon the human resources base and improve institutional capacity.
11.   To achieve these objectives, the project had four components: (i) the reform of the
environment; (ii) the restructuring of the financial sector; (iii) the institutional
restructuring and capacity building of institutions operating or involved in the operations
of the financial sector; and (iv) a technical assistance component to help implement the
reform program.
Achievement of Project Objectives
12.   The adjustment of the environment of the financial sector. This component
was aimed at: (i) improving monetary policies and the regulatory framework and
supervision of financial institutions; (ii) the strengthening of the Central Bank (BCRG)
and of the Department of Money and Credit of the Ministry of Finance; and (iii)
improving the tax regime applied to financial operations and the judicial and legal
environment of the financial sector. In terms of adoption of new regulations, this
component largely achieved its objective. Practically all the measures envisaged in the
project, the detail of which is given in Table 5 of the Statistical Appendices, were
implemented. The most important of these are discussed below.
13.   Monetary policies. Interest rates were progressively freed. In 1993, interest rates
were linked to the rates of the Treasury bonds issued by the Government rather than
being imposed by the Central Bank as was done previously. With the progressive
improvement of the country's macro-economic condition, notably the decrease in
inflation from 28% in 1989 to about 2% in 1997, all rates dropped: rates on deposits
declined from 14% in 1994 to 5 to 5.5% in 1997; similarly, banks lending rates decreased
from 22% in 1994 to a level ranging from 7.5% to the present maximum ceiling (usury
rate) of 19.75%. Since 1998, interest rates have been completely freed. The introduction
by the Central Bank of open-market operations as a tool for indirect control of the money
supply was somewhat successfully implemented. Since 1993, Treasury bonds have been
auctioned weekly to financial institutions. The array of bonds offered has progressively
widened and since 1996 open-market operations have been extended to public securities.
The third and final measure aimed at improving monetary policies was the introduction in
1993 of reserve requirements. Reserve requirements have progressively been increased
from 7% of banks deposits in 1993 to 9% in 1995 and 11% in 1997.
14.   The framework for the supervision of financial institutions. As envisaged in
the project, the framework for an adequate supervision of financial institutions was
revised and reinforced. Within the Central Bank, specialized departments were
established to supervise banks and micro-finance institutions, savings and credit
institutions and insurance companies. A satisfactory new banking law and prudential
regulations, insurance code and regulations for savings and credit institutions were
adopted in June 1994, June 1995 and September 1996, respectively. With assistance
provided by the project, the personnel of the nine departments of the Central Bank
received 32 training sessions, on-the-job, as well as outside the institution. Satisfactory
3



supervision procedure manuals were drafted with the assistance of foreign experts. The
Central Bank completed its array of regulations by adopting: (i) in 1994, prudential
standards and mechanisms for the monitoring of these standards for the "Caisse
Nationale de Securite Sociale (National Social Security Fund - CNSS); and (ii) in 1997,
regulations relating to public issues of securities and to the profession of stockbroker. The
only measure that faced serious implementation delays was the establishment of a new
accounting plan for the banks which was completed only in early 1999, after the closing
of the project.
15.   The impact of the above-mentioned measures cannot yet be assessed. No
performance indicator was envisaged to do so. However, taking into account what
happened to financial institutions during the life of the project, one can only assume that
these measures had marginal impact, if any, on the health and performance of the sector.
As will be discussed further in paras. 22 and 28, one of the banks had to be liquidated in
1988 while the others went from restructuring to restructuring. The Credit Mutuel, a
savings and loan institution, was in a very fragile position at the end of the project. The
financial situation of the CNSS is also cause for serious concern. Its long-term viability
is questionable and it is still under reorganization. In November 1998, the Government
adopted a restructuring plan. The reorganization of the financial and accounting
departments of the institution was expected to be completed by April 30, 1999 and the
updating of the filing system of its members by September 30, 1999.
16.   The tax regime applied to financial operations. The Government undertook a
review of the tax regime, namely with regard to the taxes related to savings (no tax on
household savings), credit institutions and transferable securities on the grounds that
mobilization of deposits should be promoted. The taxation system has been simplified
and presently only two value added taxes (VAT) are applied to bank credit: a 13% VAT
on medium and long-term credits and an 18% VAT on short-term credits.
17.   The improvement of the judicial and legal environment of the financial
sector. This sub-component had four objectives: (i) the adoption of appropriate
legislation for financial operations; (ii) the strengthening of the judicial system dealing
with financial disputes; (iii) and the training of the related personnel of the judicial
system; and (iv) with the carrying out of a wide information and communications
program. With regard to the first objective, in June 1995 a Code of Economic Activities
was enacted in three steps. At the same time, new legal dispositions aimed at simplifying
and speeding up procedures for loan recovery were incorporated into the Code of Civil
Economic and Administrative procedure. A manual of procedure relating to the
registration of corporate companies to be carried out by the Centre des Formalites was
drafted and adopted. However, this manual needs to be revised, especially with regard to
the registration records, which should be an important instrument of information for the
public. These are not updated, nor do they provide information on the performance of the
listed enterprises as they are not required to submit their statutory annual financial
statements. It is also not possible to check whether a listed company has gone bankrupt
and closed down its operations.
18.   With regard to the second objective, a code of ethics has been prepared and made
available to magistrates. In April 1995, this code was widely publicized. Also, a salary
4



adjustment scheme for magistrates and clerks of courts is presently under discussion
within the Government. A law allowing the creation, within the existing courts, of
chambers or specialized sections to deal with economic disputes was enacted.  A
Chamber of Arbitration was established in September 1998. Its creation aimed at
responding to the need for a swift settlement of commercial disputes. In September 1995
and April 1996, official tariffs were adopted and widely publicized for the remuneration
of judicial acts performed by legal officers (bailiffs, notaries, etc.). Following a survey
carried out in the Conakry area, land recording procedures are now operational. A
registrar of land records was appointed in January 1995.
19.   Finally, with regard to the third and fourth objectives, a ten-month training course
was provided to 40 magistrates while seminars to disseminate and explain new texts were
organized. As an initial step, a legal library has been opened within the Ministry of
Justice. Models of judicial acts and standard contracts were compiled to facilitate private
entrepreneurs and professionals dealing with the legal system. The Government
undertook an intensive audiovisual and press campaign in June 1996 to inform the
population of the new functioning of the judicial system and of key dispositions of the
law in order to "bring justice closer to the people." The campaign was carried out all
over the country in the four main national languages and in French.
20.   Significant efforts have been made to improve and reinforce the judicial system.
However, despite the implementation of all the measures mentioned above, the system
still falls short of the expectations of the citizens and the entire private sector community.
The judicial system is still not trusted because of its unreliability and disrespect for the
rules of law and its lengthy, and sometimes unfair, rulings. Indeed, the Prime Minister
declared in a September 1997 letter to the Minister of Justice: "We have to admit that in
addition to the shortage of reliable material or banking infrastructures, legal insecurity is
furthermore almost total. The investment climate is not very conducive to the outburst of
enthusiasm within business circles; besides, it even deters investors, especially
foreigners, from running the risk of investing in Guinea." This is echoed by the Minister
of Justice, who notes in his recent plan to revamp Guinean courts of appeal and tribunals,
"despite the significant progress achieved within a relatively short period, the Guinean
judicial institution is operating with no respect to standards".
21.   The adjustment of the financial sector.  Under this component the project
aimed at: (i)restructuring the banks and reducing the Government's share in their capital;
(ii) developing a bond market and a financial market; and (iii) strengthening small
savings and credit institutions in urban as well as rural areas of the country.
22.   The restructuring of the banking system. Measures related to the achievement
of this objective were carried out successfully. In 1993, at the onset of the project, four
private banks - BIAG, BIG, BPMG and UIBG - were recapitalized. In 1997 BIAG
became totally insolvent; its shareholders could not recapitalize it and it had to be
liquidated. The cost to Government of this liquidation, which was completed in
December 1998, amounted to about GNF 13 billion (or about US$10 million). In 1998,
the three other banks had to be recapitalized again. The shareholders of BIG had to
commit about GNF 4 billion to recapitalize the bank while the GOG provided the bank
with an interest-free loan of GNF 3 billion in the form of Treasury bonds. Similarly,
5



shareholders of BPMG had to inject GNF 6 billion to rescue the bank: 3.6 billion were
provided by the Government and 2.4 billion by other private shareholders. The
shareholders of UEBG had to increase the capital of the bank by GNF 2 billion to restore
its capital base eroded by bad loans. Finally, in terms of privatization, in 1997, near the
end of the project, the GOG reduced its share in the capital of BICIGUI - a commercial
bank, and UGAR - an insurance company, from 50.7% to 39.5% and 60% to 35%,
respectively.
23.   The development of a sound financial market. This action is still underway. As
a first step, regulations aimed at liberalizing foreign exchange operation were adopted in
1994. The objective was to shift foreign currency transactions from the informal to the
formal sector. Private operators were allowed to engage in foreign exchange transactions
but while there are 25 offices, to date their operation in line with the formal framework is
not effective. To justify their attitude, the exchange offices argue that they do not have
access to foreign currency with the BCRG when the need arises. In 1994, residents were
authorized to open foreign currency accounts without being subjected to restrictions on
ordinary international transactions and discriminatory exchange practices.
24.   At the same time, an inter-bank foreign currency market was established. Banks
could freely sell or buy foreign currencies, against Guinean Francs, among themselves.
The inter-bank foreign exchange market started operations in November 1994 as a
substitute for the foreign exchange auction market previously carried out by the Central
Bank. The rationale behind its creation was to attain exchange rate stability. Since
November 1996, the BCRG is no longer participating in the inter-bank market. Only
commercial banks and foreign exchange dealers and individuals, through this type of
institution, are involved.
25.   The development of the financial market. A money market was established in
November 1995. Two categories of operations could be carried out on this market. "Off-
Central Bank" operations, which can be directly carried out between financial institutions
and "In-Bank" operations, where the Central Bank plays an intermediary role between
institutions concerned. In the first half of 1998, the overall money market transactions
amounted to G-NF 8.5 billion, thus giving clear evidence that money market was not very
robust.
26.   The development of savings and credit institutions. Three institutions are
presently operating in Guinea: the Credit Rural, the Credit Mutuel, PRIDE, a USAID-
supported institution, and Banque and Desjardins, which that was created in 1997. They
address the needs of small-sized savers and borrowers who do not have access to
commercial banks and, at the same time, they establish a link between the operators of
the informal sector and commercial banks. As of December 31, 1998, these micro-credit
institutions each had between 6 and 58 branches and between 2,000 and 60,000 members.
Their total outstanding credit was about GNF 6 billion while their deposits amounted to
about GNF 12 billion. These decentralized financing institutions play a key role in the
delivery of services to a large segment of the Guinean population who have no access to
traditional banking services.
6



27.   However, the measures envisaged in the project to strengthen micro-finance were
not fully successfully implemented. Central units established within micro-finance
institutions to consolidate and manage their liquidities and deposit them in the banks, thus
establishing a bridge between formal and informal institutions are not fully operational.
Similarly, the Caisse d'epargne de Conakry, created as a pilot experiment to extend
micro-finance to urban areas, is still nascent.  Regarding existing institutions, the
situation of Credit Mutuel has sharply, deteriorated and this institution is currently in a
severe financial crisis. Its recapitalization requires an estimated GNF 13 billion. Its
future remains uncertain although the Government  and the French Agency for
Development (AFD) are contemplating financing its recapitalization. As mentioned
further in para. 48, a Bank supported project was approved in 1998 to test a methodology
to strengthen the micro-finance sector.
28.   The institutional capacity building component. For the most part this
component consisted of training of senior staff of the Central Bank, the Ministry of
Justice and the Ministry of Finance. The results achieved for each institution are is
described below.
29.   Central Bank. In November 1994, a Research and Training Center that has since
become the Department of Training and Studies was established and equipped. It has
been operational ever since and assumes two main roles: (i) the provision of training in
banking technique, economics, law, accounting, etc. to staff from the Central Bank,
commercial banks and insurance companies, and also from the ministries of Finance and
Justice; and (ii) the operation of a macroeconomics unit to monitor the trends of key
economic and financial aggregates, as well as to participate in defining monetary policy
objectives.
30.   With considerable delays, BCRG's master plan for a computer system was
completed, and the hardware was financed by the project. However, the technical
assistance to help put the system in operation was not provided by the project as
envisaged. The computer system is therefore not yet operational.
31.   Ministry of Justice. The project envisaged technical assistance for training and
dissemination of information relating to new reforms being implemented. In January
1995, a training and resource center was created and it has been operational since. This
center provided training to personnel of the judicial system. Funds provided by the
project helped develop a program through which magistrates and members of the legal
system received training both in Guinea and abroad. Indeed, four-month training courses
per year for a period of four years, improved the skills of all magistrates and court clerks
of the Guinean judiciary. Training courses focused on notary practices and business law.
With regard to the specialization of magistrates in business law, a session was organized
in October 1998 with the support of the Dakar Judicial Training Center (Senegal). The
training covered the following themes: (i) legal framework of economic activities; (ii)
means to carry on economic activities; and (iii) economic activity operations.
Furthermore, continued education for magistrates, legal professionals, forces of law and
order and other representatives of the law were provided by the Center that hosted
selective seminars as well. Finally the Supreme Court Committee of Accounts received
7



assistance to train its staff in accounting and auditing and carry out an assessment of its
institutional structure.
32.   In addition to the information campaign mentioned earlier, a Foundation for the
Study and Development of the Law in Guinea (FEPDGUI) was established in May 1997
with a view to enforcing the law throughout the Guinean territory and ensuring a
sustainable publication of judicial decisions. However, the Foundation has not been able
to fulfill its function effectively because of lack of coordination with the Ministry of
Justice.
33.   Finally, the project financed equipment to computerize the records of the Court of
First Instance and of the Court of Appeal in Conakry. It also financed office furniture and
vehicles for the Inspection department. However, as mentioned earlier, in spite of all
these reforms, the Guinean Judicial system has not yet met the expectations of the pub'ic.
Because of shortage of skills, poor working environment coupled with the low level of
remuneration of the judicial personnel and interference of top officials in judicial
proceedings, the reform of the judicial system is far from having achieved its objectives.
34.   Ministry of Finance. As envisaged in the project, assistance was provided to this
Ministry to set up a Monetary and Credit Division linked to the National Treasury
Department. The project financed the training of the Division's staff, on the job and
abroad, in microeconomics, financial and banking analysis. This Division is now
involved in discussions on monetary policy and regulations governing micro-credit
institutions. It also takes part in the Treasury bill tender and provides inputs for the
definition of Treasury bonds characteristics and for preparing their issuance.
Key Factors in Project Implementation Process
35.   Factors subject to project design. This project was very complex. It targeted too
many objectives at the same time, with no clearly defined priorities and sequencing. Too
many institutions (the Central Bank, the Ministries of Finance and Justice and the
Supreme Court) were involved in its implementation. The coordination between these
institutions was assigned to a Steering Committee, which proved to be inefficient. As a
result, project implementation faced considerable delays and achieved marginal results.
36.   Factors subject to government control. The first factor was that none of the
project institutions had the capacity to properly execute the project. Although the
members of the Steering Committee, drawn from staff of the BCRG, the Ministry of
Justice and the Ministry of Finance, spared no efforts in trying to achieve the project
objectives, it was overwhelmed by this task. It proved also to have little control or impact
on the institutions in charge of the implementation of the project. A case in point was its
inability to bring the BRCG to execute properly the procurement procedures for the
acquisition of its computer equipment, which resulted in long delays. Another instance
was the mismanagement of the Special Account, which led the Bank to reduce it from
US$200,000 to US$100,000 because the replenishment procedures were not respected.
8



Project Sustainability
37.   The results achieved do not appear to be sustainable. They consist mainly of the
restructuring of the banking system and the adoption of new laws and regulations. With
regard to the former, the emergence of sound banking institutions has not been achieved.
Years after the project became effective, several banks are in the process of being
recapitalized and/or are of questionable viability.
38.   While the new laws and regulations have been adopted their implementation is far
from being effective. As discussed earlier, with regard to the reforms introduced in the
legal and judicial system, they have had very little impact in the day-to-day operations of
the courts and other judicial bodies. This could be achieved only if and when the
institutional capacity of government institutions involved has been upgraded
substantially.
Bank's Performance
39.   Identification through appraisal. The Bank's performance was unsatisfactory. It
failed to identify the weak institutional capacity of the Borrower to implement the
project. There was no implementation plan that would have insured an adequate
sequencing of the measures to be implemented.
40.   Supervision. Given the above circumstances, the Bank's performance during
project implementation was satisfactory. The Bank conducted five supervision missions.
Supervision was satisfactory except during the year 1997 where, according to the
documentation available, no supervision mission was carried out.  The Bank also
dispatched specialized consultants to oversee specific components of the project such as
the evaluation of the institutional set up of the Supreme Court. The project team was
prompt to react whenever project implementation faced problems. The resident mission
made an excellent contribution in this regard, in addition to the assistance provided
during the supervision missions. Dialog with the borrower on the implementation of
activities was generally good, but did not prevent implementation delays (due to the fact
that the local team in charge of the project was understaffed).
Borrower's Performance
41.   Identification through appraisal. Despite its enthusiasm for the project, the
Borrower's performance was deficient in that it did not ensure proper staffing and
assignment of responsibilities for the implementation of the project. This was not
surprising on the part of a government that recently emerged from 26 years of very
centralized and bureaucratic system.
42.   Implementation. Given the circumstances, the performance of the Borrower was
satisfactory. Taking into account the immensity of challenges to be met after 26 years of
a highly centrally planned economic system, its initial level of commitment was
substantial. This commitment was reflected in a set of measures taken prior to the
effectiveness of the project. Despite its demonstrated state of permanent readiness to
9



press ahead with in-depth reforms, this was, nevertheless, not sufficient to overcome its
weak implementation capacity.
Assessment of Outcome
43.   Notwithstanding delays, the objectives of the project were achieved with regard to
the improvement of the formal legal and judicial environment of the financial sector, the
improvement of the BCRG's capacity in monitoring monetary policies and its regulatory
framework for supervision of financial institutions. Objectives were largely unmet with
regard to restructuring financial institutions. The BCRG now has the main instruments
needed to define and execute adequate policies. With regards to capacity building, efforts
have been made to enhance human resources skills in the BCRG, the Ministry of Justice
and the Ministry of Economy and Finance. The banking sector is still fragile, but
assuming that the Government acquires the capacity to adequately enforce the measures
adopted under the project, further progress towards strengthening the financial sector can
be achieved.
Main Lessons to be Learned
44.   The implementation of this project point to several lessons, some of which have
served as a basis for the recent development of a more participatory approach in project
preparation and implementation. First, to ensure successful implementation, a project has
to be kept simple, well focused, and priorities have to be well identified. This project was
far too complex, and priorities and sequencing were not properly identified. One can
question, for example, whether the establishment of the rules for the development of a
stock market was judicious.
45.   Second, the capacity of the Borrower to implement a project should be correctly
assessed, and measures needed to reinforce it taken well before project effectiveness.
The weakness of the project institutions in this regard was the major cause of
implementation difficulties and delays.
46.   The third lesson is that a thorough participatory approach in project preparation is
paramount to ensure project ownership, understanding of its objectives and proper
identification of potential implementation problems. In the case of this project, although
the Government was committed to reforms, it is not clear that the institutions in charge of
project implementation were well aware of, and prepared for the role that they would be
playing.
47.   Fourth, unless a government has proved its political will in enforcing the laws and
eliminating corruption, reform of the formal set-up of the judicial system alone will not
achieve any significant results. The most important problem in the judicial system is in
fact the problem of enforcement. In Guinea, poor enforcement of the law due to political
interference in judicial proceedings and corruption have prevented the project frcm
achieving its objectives in this area.
10



48.   Next, because of its short time span (18 months to two years), an adjustment
operation is not a suitable vehicle to tackle reforms in the judicial system which might
take years to bear fruition.
49.   Finally in the financial sector, the liquidation/downsizing of troubled banks is a
preferable alternative to solve the problems of troubled banks. Restructuring/
recapitalizing without changing their ownership is not a good idea because it does not
address the real cause of the problem. The inappropriateness of the banks' management
was not addressed at all. This is one of the reasons why the situation of the restructured
banks deteriorated again. In addition, as in the case of the judicial system, the reform of
the Central Bank regulations, along with training provided to staff, were not sufficient to
generate proper supervision of the banks and the enforcement of the regulations. Lack of
strong political will and accountability on the part of the Central Bank staff affected the
health of the banking sector.
Future Operations
50.   A Learning and Innovation Loan, the Micro-finance Capacity Building Project
was approved by IDA on June 25, 1998. This project, which is not yet effective, aims at
testing a performance-based capacity building program methodology that will contribute
to transforming three micro-finance institutions (Credit Mutuel, Credit Rural and
Programme lntegre pour le Developpement de I'Entreprise (PRIDE)), from donor-
financed development projects into sustainable financial institutions. It is also expected
that the Institutional Capacity Building Project, scheduled to become effective in the
second half of calendar 1999, will continue providing assistance to the Ministry of Justice
for a better and more efficient delivery of judicial services.
11



PART TWO: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Not Applicable
Achieved Objectives         Substantial     Partial      Insignificant
Macroeconomic policies                                                              X
Sectoral policies                                                   X
Financial objectives                                                X
Institutional development                                           X
Physical objectives                                                                 X
Poverty alleviation                                                                 X
Impact on women's conditions                                                        X
Other social objectives                                                             X
Environmental objectives                                                            X
Public sector management                                                            X
Private sector development                                                          X
B. Project Sustainability       Probable            Improbable           Uncertain
C. Bank's Performance           Very satisfactory    Satisfactory        Not good enough
Identification                                                                    X
Design                                                                            X
Evaluation                                                                        X
Supervision                                                  X
D. Borrower's Performance       Very satisfactory    Satisfactory        Not good enough
Preparation                                                                       X
Execution                                                    X
Compliance with provisions                                   X
Operation                                                    X
E. Appraisal Performance    Ve  Satisfactory   Satisfactory     Acceptable      Poor
I                l                 x
12



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Year of
Loan/Credit                       Objective                 Approval       Status
Prior To This Operation
Previous Adjustment
Programs
First Structural Adjustment    Providing  support to  the  transition
Program (SACI)             towards market economy; downsizing the
public sector; flattening out the economy    1986   Closed
Supporting economic reforms efforts to
Second Structural          establish a free market economy; reform
Adjustment Program (SAC    of the civil service; continuation of
II)                        reforms of public enterprises; uplifting
legal and institutional framework to spur
the promotion and development of the
private sector; developing the overall
social policy.                        1988          Closed
After This Operation
Public Expenditure         Shifting public expenditures through a
Management Adjustment      medium  term  expenditure  framework
Credit                     (MTEF) to benefit four priority sectors
(education, health, rural development,
road maintenance); improving budget
implementation and control through
computer-based   public   expenditure  1997         Closed
channels establishing a framework of
rules and regulations to govern financial
control and procurement; standardization
and   simplification   of   budgetary
procedures.
Testing  a performance-based capacity
Micro-finance capacity     building program methodology that will  1998         Not   yet
Building project           contribute to transforming three micro-              effective
finance institutions, Credit Mutuel, Credit
Rural and Programme Integr6 pour le
Developpement de 1'Entreprise (PRIDE),
from    donor-financed    development
projects  into  sustainable  financial
institutions.
13



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Planned                    Date
Identification                                        10/1992
Preparation                                           04/1993 to 07/1993
Evaluation                                            04/1994
Negotiations                                          06/1994
Letter of development policy                          07/29/1994
Presentation to the Board
Signing                                               10/19/1994
Effective date
Release of first tranche                              12/23/1994
Release of second tranche   09/09/1994                12/23/1994
Project completion          09/09/1996                08/1/1997
Credit closing              03/31/1997                12/31/ 1998
03/31/ 1997              12/31/ 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Estimate and Actual
(SDR million)
FY95    FY96    FY97   FY98   FY99    Total
Estimates at the time of    7.3     7.3      1.7                       16.3
appraisal
Actual disbursements      6.78     .95      .38    7.05       .87     16.03
Actual disbursements in   93%      13%      22%                        98%
percentage of estimates at
the time of appraisal
Date of last disbursement
5/27/99
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicator Description                                Status
I. Adjustment of the Environment
A. Monetary Policy
Readjustment of reserve requirements                                   Completed
Introduction of open-market operations                                Completed
B. Regulations on and supervision offinancial institutions
Enacting the new banking law and issuing prudential instructions for commercial  Completed
banks
Enacting revised legislation for insurance contracts and issuing prudential guidelines    Completed
Issuing regulations with regard to insurance agents and brokers            Completed
Introduction of claims scales and rates of arbitration procedures          Completed
Modification of automobile insurance tarification so as to make it more     Completed
Flexible
14



Indicator Description                                Status
Introduction of regulations on savings and credit institutions             Completed
Establishing regulations on public issue and on the activities of Stockbrokers  Completed
Strengthening BCRG departments in charge of supervising insurance Companies  Completed
Strengthening banking supervision                                          Completed
Drawing up a standard accounting plan for banks                            Underway
Developing a manual of procedures for the supervision of insurance companies  Completed
Drawing up an accounting plan for insurance companies                      Completed
Establishing procedures for the supervision of savings and credit Institutions  Completed
Developing mechanisms to control stockbrokers and financial markets        Completed
C. Taxation
Studying system's required revisions with regard to taxation of savings, financial and  Completed
transferable securities institutions
D. Judicial system
Drafting and adopting the Code of economic activities                      Completed
Taking measures to ensure compliance with ethical rules foreseen in Magistracy status.  Completed
Drafting and enacting texts pertaining to a simplified procedure for debt collection and
to new procedures related to measures of execution                         Completed
Drafting and enacting texts pertaining to economic penal law               Completed
Drafting and adopting a manual of procedures for the enterprises formality Center  Completed
Drawing up a salary adjustment scheme for magistrates and court clerks due to  under discussion
budgetary constraints                                                      by the
Government
Cancellation of the "judicatum solvi" deposit applicable to foreign Applicants
Completed
Drafting and adopting tariffs of legal officers acts (bailiffs, auctioneers...) by way of
"Orders"                                                                   Completed
Establishing and publishing a compendium of judicial decisions on a regular basis
Completed
Disciplinary council, High Council of the judiciary to take up duties and publication of
judgements                                                                 Not yet
completed
Establishing land registry in Conakry to ensure the validity of land titles and
registration of mortgages                                                  Completed
Setting up a continuing education center for magistrates, judicial professions, forces of
law and order and other representatives of the law                         Completed
Organizing selective seminars for magistrates, lawyers, court clerks and other
representatives of the law in order to disseminate and popularize new legal texts;  Completed
15



Indicator Description                                Status
explaining ethical tenets of judicial professions
Preparing a campaign for judicial diffusion and outreach through the media aimed at
awareness building about the existence of new legal texts on economic law and at Completed
explaining same
Opening a library which relates to legal documents and books
Completed
II. Financial Sector Structural Adjustment
Increasing the volume of business handled by financial institutions
operating in the formal sector
Issue of government bonds                                                  Completed
Developing a treasury bonds market through auction                         Completed
Commercial banks to be established as primary operators in monetary Market  Completed
Constituting a portfolio of Treasury bonds at the BCRG                     Completed
Spurring the creation of a secondary market                                Underway
Spurring commercial banks to issue their own securities in the short term  Underway
Taking a set of measures (cutting down commissions on transfer of funds, exchange  Completed
offices, progressive liberalization of foreign currency deposits)
Drawing up a plan for the development of Rural and Mutual Credit in provinces and    Plan Completed
for savings banks in Conakry, each having a head office playing the role of a central
banker for local savings banks; and developing relations with the formal sector
Starting the operations of Research and Assistance Fund                    Completed late
lll. Institutional capacity building
A. Global trainingstrategyin the financialsector
Drawing up and initiating a training program for managerial staff of the Central Bank, Completed
commercial banks and insurance companies, offering access to the personnel of
administrations of an economic nature and to magistrates
B. State divestiture of capital and management of financial institutions to be
continued
Working out a plan incorporating mechanisms and a realistic time-table together with Completed
the beginning of execution
C. Central Bank
Revision of BCRG Statutes                                                  Completed
Mobilization of management resources contemplated by the Statutes of the BCRG  Completed
Computerization master planning                                            Completed
Setting up a macroeconomic unit within the BCRG                            Partially accom.
Reinforcement of the system of archives and resource center within the BCRG  Underway
Computenzation of the BCRG subsequently to systems analysis
D. Ainistry of Economy and Finance
Developing the DNT (training, equipment, remote data processing system linked with Completed
the BCRG)
E. Commercial Banks
16



Indicator Description                               Status
The BIG to be restructured                                                Completed
The BIAG to be restructured, merged or liquidated                         Liquidated
F. CNSS (National Social Security Fund)
Establishing prudential standards together with monitoring mechanisms     Completed
Table 6: Studies Envisaged by the Project
Besides drafting manuals of procedures, codes, rules and regulations, one study relating
to the establishment of securities market which was carried out. A report on the Supreme
Court was also prepared.
Table 7A: Project Cost
SDR
Category                      Estimate                        Actual
Consultancy and Training
L.A BCRG                               590,000                        941,000
1.B Ministry of Finance                150,000                        200,000
1.C Ministry of Justice                435,000                        805,000
2. Supplies and materials
2.A BCRG                               530,000                        580,000
2.B Ministry of Finance                 150,000                       300,000
2. C Ministry of Justice               510,000                        560,000
3. General Import                       12,800,000                    12.386,280
4. PPF Reimbursement                    1,060,000                      527,118
5. Not allocated                         75,000                          0,00
TOTAL                                16,300,000                     16,300,00
Table 7B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Financing Plan              Appraisal Estimate                  Actual
IDA                                       23.00                         23.00
ACDI                                      0.60
AFD (ex CFD)                              0.46
USAID                                      1.60
Unspecified                                0.38
TOTAL                                     26.04                          23.00
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
17



Table 9: Status of Legal Covenant
Section/                                                                     Current
Comments       Type of Clause            Description of Covenant               Status
2.02(b)         Accounts    and  Open and maintain a special dollar account with  Complied with I
audit            the BCRG                                                X
3.01(a)         Follow-up         Borrower and IDA to exchange views regularly
on   progress   achieved   in   program   Complied v,'ith
implementation and on application of measures
specified in Appendix 3 of this agreement
3.01(b)         Follow-up         Borrower to provide the Association with a
progress  report  related   to   program   Complied with
implementation for consideration and comments
3.02            Procurement       Procurement of supplies to be financed out of  Complied with
the credit is governed by provision of Annex 2
hereunder
Agreement                                           _ _
3.03(a)         Follow-up         Take  all measures to  implement actions  Complied with
specified in Annex 5 hereunder
3.03(b)         Follow-up         Conduct a mid-term review in conjunction with
the Association before 30 April 1995 to assess  Complied with
progress made in program implementation
3.03(c)         Follow-up         Immediate implementation of recommendations
resulting from mid-term review as agreed upon  Complied with
with the Association
3.04            Follow-up         Borrower to appoint and maintain Program
Steering Committee throughout Project life  Complied with
duration
3.05(a)         Accounts    and  Borrower causes to check accounts and books  Complied with
Audit            specified under paragraph (9) of this section,
including accounts and books related to the
Special Account for each fiscal year, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
systematically applied by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association,
As soon as possible, and in any case within six
months following the closing of the relevant
fiscal year at the latest, borrower shall provide
the Association with a duly certified copy of
Auditors report of which scope and details had
previously been reasonably determined by the
Association;
Shall provide the Association with all
information relating to such accounts and books
and to their audit that the Association may
reasonably ask for.
3.059(c)        Accounts    and  All expenses calling for withdrawals from the  Complied with
Audit             Credit Account are contingent on statements of
expenditure, and to that end, Borrower shall (i)
keep or cause to keep books and accounts
entering such expenses in compliance with
paragraph (a) of this section; (ii) maintain all
books  (contracts,  orders,  invoices, notes,
receipts and other vouchers) supporting those
expenses, at least for one year after the
Association had received the auditing report
18



Section/                                                                       Current
Comments       Type of Clause              Description of Covenant                Status
covering the financial year during which the last
withdrawal from the account had been effected;
(iii) allow representatives of the Association to
verify such books and accounts; and (iv) make
sure that these books and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this section and that the Auditors report
expressed an opinion independent from that of
said  Auditors,  indicating   whether  both
statements of expenditure presented during the
relevant fiscal year and internal procedures and
control used to draw them up are reliable in
order to justify the withdrawal of funds thereto
related.
Annex 3          Conditions for the  A framework of rules and regulations deemed  Complied with
disbursement  of satisfactory to the Association has been enacted
second tranche    to govern activities of insurance companies,
operations of savings and credit institutions and
of capital markets;
Central Bank: (a) has established procedures  Complied with
deemed satisfactory to the Association to
efficiently and effectively supervise financial
institutions under its field of competence; (b) set
up specific mechanisms to supervise savings
and credit institutions activities;
Rules of procedures deemed satisfactory to the
Association have been established to facilitate
debt collection;                             Complied with
A campaign through the media aimed at
educating the public about the practical details
of the functioning of the judicial system and at
disseminating information related to rules of
procedures referred to in paragraph 3 above has  Complied with
been conducted;
A tarification of charges to be collected by
courts  and  tribunals  for registration  and  Complied with
processing of lawsuits has been published;
A compendium of judicial decisions is published  Complied with
on a regular basis;
A plan of action deemed satisfactory to the
Association to expand Mutual Credit and Rural
Credit activities to launch savings banks pilot  Complied with
project in Conakry has been approved;
Mechanisms coupled with a realistic timetable
related to borrower's divestiture of the capital of
financial institutions that Association considers  Complied with
satisfactory have been approved. Such pullout
has started in accordance with the schedule
referred to here above.
Annex 5 Part A   Follow-up         Reinforcement of BCRG capacities             Complied with
Establishment of a computer based system and a
telecommunication   network,  and  training
BCRG' s relevant personnel to adequately
operate and maintain such systems;
Drafting adequate instruments and necessary Complied with
procedures to effect transactions on capital
19



Section/                                                                   Current
Comments      Type of Clause            Description of Covenant              Status
markets;                                  Underway
a) Fonnulation and implementation of:  (i) a
standard accounting plan for all commercial
banks; and (ii) a standard accounting plan for
insurance companies; and                  Complied uwith
b) training relevant BCRG and commercial
banks staff to use such accounting plans;
Revision and update of legal and regulatory
framework which governs activities of insurance
companies together with savings and credit
institutions;                             Complied with
Reinforcement of BCRG departments in charge
of supervising commercial banks activities;
Formulation and implementation of a plan of Complied with
action to: (a) develop mutual savings banks and
credit; and (b) launch Research and Assistance
Fund's operations to help small borrowers to
adequately prepare their proposed projects
together with related financing applications;  Complied with
a) Creation of a macroeconomic unit within the
BCRG to collect and process financial and
economic data necessary to focus on appropriate
monetary policies and determine in what form
and in which manner the BCRG can intervene in
capital markets; and (b) on-the-job-training of
relevant personnel from  the macroeconomic  Complied with
unit;
a) Establish and reinforce a legal department
within the BCRG as an ultimate goal, with the
aim to provide every legal support required for
the day-to-day smooth management of the
BCRG; and b) on-the-job training coupled with  Complied with
study tours for legal people assigned to such
Legal Department;
a) Drawing up and implementing appropriate
procedures to protect BCRG's documents and  Complied with
records efficiently; and b) training appropriate
personnel of the BCRG to implement such
procedures;
Creation of banking training center to provide
continuing education to the employees of the
BCRG, financial institutions and to magistrates.
Annex 5 Part B   Follow-up       Ministry of Economy and Finance
Capacity building within the MPF to have the  Complied with
command of determining factors connected with
monetary policy formulation and financial
institutions supervision.
Annex 5 Part C                   Ministry of Justice
(a) Examination and update of a package of Complied with
legislative texts connected with the exercise of
economic and commercial activities; and (b)
training managerial staff in logistics;
Edit and publish a compendium   of judicial Complied with
decisions in Guinea;
(a) Establish and maintain a computerized  Complied with
databank of judicial decisions; and (b) train
20



Section/                                                                   Current
Comments       Type of Clause            Description of Covenant             Status
appropriate personnel in the utilization and
maintenance of said database;
Preparation and execution of a campaign
through the media (radio and TV) designed to:
(a) make laws known to the public and educate
same about rights and obligations of citizens;
and (b) help the general public understand how
the judicial system operates in Guinea;   Complied with
Creation of a specialized law library in Conakry
Annex 5 Part D                   Supreme Court
Formulation and execution of a specific training  Complied with
program which meets the immediate priority
needs of judges and magistrates of the Supreme
Court.
Annex 5 Part E                   Financial Institutions
Assessment of training needs for appropriate  Complied with
staff of financial institutions operating in
Guinea;
Formulation and implementation of training  Complied with
program addressing needs identified at the end
of assessment referred to in paragraph I here
above.
Table 10: Use of Bank Resources
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle             Planned                Actual
From preparation to appraisal           n.a.*                   74
Appraisal to Board                       n.a.                   61
68                    124
Supervision
Completion                               9.7                     6
TOTAL                                    n.a.                   265
*Not available.
Table 11: Bank's Resources - Missions
Step in    Month/   Number   Mission Days    Specialization    Performance
Project     Year    of People                        Involved           Note
Cycle
Supervision    2/95        2             10        Financial Analyst
I                                             Counsel
II        2/96         1            5         Financial Analyst
III       6/96         2             8        Sr. Project Officer
Financial Analyst
IV        6/98         3            20        Financial Analyst
Operations Officer
Sr. Project Officer
V         11/98        2            16        Financial Analyst
Economist
21



RAPPORTDE FIND 'EXECUON DU PROJET
DE REFORME D U SECTEUR FINANCIER
Depuis decembre 1985, la Republique de Guinee s'est engagee resolument sur la voie de
l'economie de marche, ainsi elle a entrepris un vaste programme de reformes
economiques et financieres qui lui a permis de conclure en octobre 1994 avec l'IDA un
programme d'appui institutionnel aux secteurs financiers et de la justice.
Ce programme intitule projet de reforme du secteur financier (PRSF) repose sur la
matrice de politique ci-apres:
la reforme de l'environnement dans lequel op&ent les institutions financieres, il s'agit
notamment de la politique mon6taire du cadre legal et reglementaire de l'intermediation
financiere, du systeme fiscal y afferent, de l'appareil judiciaire et du degre de
participation de l'Etat dans le capital et la gestion des institutions financieres;
la reforme de la structure du secteur financier par des mesures visant la liberalisation du
marche des changes, le developpement des marches financiers, les institutions d'epargne
et de credit et la mise en place de mecanismes de soutien aux PME et micro -entreprises;
le renforcement institutionnel qui a trait a la formation des cadres des institutions
financieres et judiciaires.
A ce titre, les trois composantes du programme sont la BCRG, le Ministere de la justice
et le Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances.
Dans la mise en execution du projet des progres importants ont e  realises dans les
domaines ci-apres:
L.    B.C.R.G
A.     Renforcement de la politique monetaire
Al.   La liberalisation des taux d'intere^ts en juillet 1993 a etepoursuivie: la Banque
Centrale ne fixe plus les taux debiteurs des banques en fonction de son taux directeur.
Depuis avril 1997, le taux crediteur minimum est determine en fonction du taux
d'inflation et le taux debiteur maximum est etabli selon le taux de base bancaire ; ces taux
etaient de 5,50 % en decembre 1998 pour les depots et de 19,75 % pour les prets.
A2.   Les opeirations d'open - market ont ett ameliorees: commencees en juillet 1993
avec l1'mission des Bons du Tr6sor en comptes courants, les operations d'open - market
ont ete elargies aux titres d'Etat en avril 1996. Aussi, pour agir davantage sur la
surliquidit6 des banques, les Bons du Tresor a duree interm6diaires (7, 14 et 42 jours)
sont venues completer les Bons du Tr6sor a 28 et 91 jours. Egalement, la BCRG a
commence l'6mission des Bons du Tresor sur formule (ou titres vifs) le 31 mars 1999.
22



A3.   La constitution de riserves a itj renforcie: face a la surliquidite des banques,
les taux de reserves obligatoires ont ete plusieurs fois revus a la hausse pour etre fixe a 11
% actuellement contre 7 % en 1993.
B.    Le Cadre institutionnel
De gros efforts ont 6te fournis pour le renforcement du cadre institutionnel.
Bl.   Le disengagement progressif de l'Etat du capital des institutions financieres: la
part de l'Etat dans le capital de la BICIGUI est passe de 50,7 % a 39,5 % et ses parts dans
le capital de l'UGAR ont et ramenees de 60 % a 35 %.
B2.   Restructuration du secteur bancaire: avec la liquidation de la BIAG  en
novembre 1997 et la restructuration financiere et administrative de trois banques qui sont
la BID, la BPMG et l'UIBG.
B3.   Renforcement de la supervision bancaire: avec la restructuration de la direction
de l'Inspection Generale qui comprend desormais trois directions (Banques, Assurance et
maintenant l'Audit). A cela s'ajoute la prise d'un certain nombre de mesures pour
renforcer la reglementation des institutions d'epargne et de credit et la promulgation de la
legislation revisee sur les contrats et les compagnies d'assurance.
B4.   La formation des cadres: 32 actions de formations ont ete realisees pour les
cadres de neuf (9) Directions (Banques, Assurances, Credit, Changes, Documentation,
Personnel, Patrimoine et Logistiques, Services bancaires, Exploitation).
B5.   Fourniture d'ouvrages pour la bibliotheque et de matiriels divers: pour
plusieurs departements de la BCRG ainsi que le raccordement de la BCRG au reseau
SWIFT, la finalisation du plan comptable des assurances et la mise en place du schema
directeur informatique de la BCRG (equipements et formation). Le plan comptable des
banques sera finalise a la fin de l'annee 1999.
C.    Le Diveloppement de l'intermediation financi&re
Par l'application des mesures suivantes:
Cl.   Suppression  des taxes sur l'epargne  des menages pour encourager sa
mobilisation;
C2.   Autorisation d'ouverture des bureaux de change: 34 agrements ont ete accordes a
fin 1998;
C3.   Developpement des institutions de credit d6centralis6es (Cridit Rural, Cridit
Mutuel, PRIDE, DID) pour permettre aux couches de population defavorisees d'acceder
aux services financiers.
23



II    MISTERE DE LA JUSTICE
Redaction des textes
Le code des activitis economiques: Le projet CASFI a permis au Ministere de la justice,
de rediger et de faire adopter ce texte essentiel a l'activite des entreprises en Guinee.
Dans un texte unique, la Guin6e dispose desormais l'ensemble de la reglementation des
affaires. Sa multiplication en plusieurs exemplaires a permis de doter tous les magistrats
en fonction. Une session de formation qui vient de s'achever avec la participation des
magistrats senegalais a par ailleurs permis de former sur 10 mois 40 magistrats sur
l'application de ce code.
Le code de procedure civile, economique et administrative: La procedure civile d'une
maniere gen6rale etait jusqu'A present regie en Guinee par une ancienne loi devenue
obsolete au regard des changements intervenus dans le systeme judiciaire de la Guin6e.
Dans le but d'une meilleure administration de la justice surtout en matiere de delai
d'execution des procedures, de la mise en etat des affaires judiciaires et de l'execution
des d6cisions de justice, le ministere de la justice a fait adopter le code de procedure
civile economique et administrative. Ce texte vient d'etre publie dans le journal officiel et
sa distribution a tous les magistrats a et effectue. A noter que ce texte inclut dans ses
dispositions les mesures instituant les procedure de recouvrement accel6re des creances et
celles supprimant la caution judicatum solvi. A l'instar des codes penal et de procedure
penale, ce code a ete entierement l'ceuvre des juristes guineens (magistrats, avocats et
huissier de justice).
Le code pinal et le code de procedure penale: Ces deux codes sont essentiels pour la
reglement de l'ordre public surtout des affaires en Guinee. Ils viennent d'etre promulgu6s
et leur application permettra de resoudre beaucoup de problemes lies au respect des
libert6s publics et de l'Etat de droit.
La loi sur l'organisation judiciaire: Dans le but d'une simplification et d'une
clarification de l'organisation judiciaire, le Ministere de la justice a travers le projet
CASFI a fait adopter une nouvelle organisation judiciaire. Celle-ci consacre:
une meilleure utilisation du personnel par la suppression de certains tribunaux en tant que
juridictions d'exception;
un bon fonctionnement des juridictions par une definition claire des r6les au niveau des
chefs de juridiction en distinguant les attributions des chefs des parquets et des sieges;
un bon fonctionnement des juridictions par une definition claire des r6les et une
specialisation des magistrats
un rapprochement de la justice des justiciables au niveau des Justices de Paix par le
relevement du taux de comp6tence et par la reconnaissance d'une plenitude de
competence en matiere penale dans leur ressort territorial;
une assurance en direction des operateurs economiques par la creation, des la premiere
instance, de chambres economiques et l'introduction de la collegialite dans leur
formation.
Arretes fixant les tarifs des Notaires et des Huissiers de Justice: Dans le cadre de la
mise en aeuvre de sa politique d'assainissement des professions judiciaires, le Ministere
24



de la justice a fait adopter deux arretes fixant la tarification des actes accomplis par ces
officiers dans l'execution de leur mission.
Le respect des r-efles diontologigues pre'vues dans le statut de la magistrature:
Le Ministere de la justice a decidb de l'etablissement du conseil de discipline charge de
sanctionner les manquements a la deontologie judiciaire. Un manuel de d6ontologie a ete
par consequent redige et mis a la disposition de tous les cadres de la justice. Des cours de
deontologie sont par ailleurs dispenses au niveau du Centre de formation et de
documentation judiciaires. Grace a l'acquisition par l'Inspection des Services de
vehicules 4X4 des missions d'inspection sont frequemment ordonnees par le Ministre.
Renforcement de l'appareil iudiciaire:
Grace a l'important volet << Equipement >> du CASFI, le ministere de la justice a equipe
les juridictions en materiels divers. Chaque Cour d'appel et chaque Tribunal dispose un
equipement complet de bureau, des machines a ecrire. Quant a la cour supreme, elle a
beneficie de missions en vue de l'evaluation de ses besoins. Un rapport a ete dresse a cet
effet et attend sa mise en oeuvre.
En ce qui concerne la revalorisation des traitements des Magistrats et des Greffier, des
etudes sont en cours pour reamenager la grille salariale des Magistrats et leur permettre
l'acces au logement.
Aux fins de constituer une jurisprudence guineenne destinee aux juges et aux
professionnels du droit, une revue denommee < Bulletin de la justice guineenne >> a ete
creee. Cette revue est actuellement geree par la Fondation pour l'6tude et la promotion
du droit en Guinee, institution chargee entre autres de la vulgarisation du droit en droit.
Dans le meme ordre d'idees le Ministere de la justice vient d'instituer une chambre
d'arbitrage chargee de regler les contentieux entre operateurs economiques.
D.    Formation des professionnels du droit et des operateurs e&conomiques:
Conscient que l'une des grandes carences du systeme judiciaire de la Guin6e provient du
manque de formation adequate de base des magistrats, il a ete cre6 un Centre de
Formation judiciaire.
Depuis sa creation en 1995, ce centre a realise plusieurs actions de formation grace aux
appuis financiers de la Banque Mondiale et de la Cooperation fran,aise.
Des actions d'information du public sur ses droits et devoirs ont ete organises.
25



III    MNISThRE DES FINANCES
En ce qui concerne le Ministere charge des Finances le programme consistait A la mise en
place d'une division dans la structure de la Direction Nationale du Tresor, cette division
aurait pour mission de participer avec la BCRG aux discussions sur la politique
monetaire et la reglementation des institutions financieres. A ce titre, la division devrait
etre creee le personnel recrute et celui-ci devrait beneficier de formations afin de
renforcer les capacites internes du ministere des finances pour maitriser les determinants
de la formulation de la politique monetaire et de la supervision des institutions
financieres. Les efforts seront coordonnes avec les actions de formation dispensees A la
BCRG. Le personnel de la division beneficierait de formations dans d'autres pays
africains, en Europe ou aux Etats-unis.
Des equipements photocopieuses, micro ordinateurs et le mobilier de bureau seront
acquis. Une teletransmission sera etablie avec la Banque Centrale.
L'assistance technique assurerait la formation en analyse macro-economique, financiere
et bancaire et en evaluation de projets du personnel de la division.
Les resultats ci-dessous ont ete enregistr6s:
a) Eguinements:
La division a et creee dans la structure de la Direction Nationale du Tresor, le personnel
a ete recrute et les locaux au premier etage de la Paierie Centrale du Tresor ont ete
amenagees, le mobilier et les equipements sont acquis.
b) Formation:
L'assistance technique conclu avec le cabinet SETYM International Inc 2192, bd Rene
Levesque Ouest, Montreal Quebec CANADA H3H 1R6 s'est deroule conformement au
contrat N9804-1C080-1.
Le plan de formation du personnel a dejA permis le sejour du Chef de la division a
Abidjan, A Dakar et en Tunisie pour des missions ponctuelles de courte duree, aussi les
trois (3) chefs de section ont beneficie de formations A Abidjan par le cabinet Marfim
International en collaboration avec les structures du tresor Ivoirien.
De meme, sur financement du CASFI, le Directeur National du Tresor a sejourne au
Canada et au Maroc, ainsi que d'autres cadres de la Direction en Tunisie dans le cadre de
la politique de restructuration et de modernisation des services du Tresor.
Aussi il faut noter le plan de formation deja execute sur place avec le centre de formation
de la BCRG et le centre national de perfectionnement A la gestion (CNPG) et les series de
formation dans le tas avec la mission d'assistance technique.
26



c) Renforcement des capacit6s:
Le personnel de la division participe deja aux discussions sur la politique monetaire et a
la reglementation des institutions de credit.
Le chef de la division est membre du comite de surveillance du credit mutuel et du credit
rural. Nous participons a certaines discussions sur les micro - credits. Nous assistons, a la
BCRG toutes les semaines aux adjudications des bons du tresor negociables et nous
avons largement contribue avec la Direction de la politique mon6taire et du cr6dit a la
BCRG, a la conception des bons du tresor sur formule et a leur lancement courant 1999.
d) TeItransmission:
L'installation d'un systeme de teletransmission de donnees informatiques avec la Banque
Centrale dans le but d'obtenir des informations sur les comptes publics, a et realise, ce
qui permet au Tresor de consulter et d'imprimer toutes les donnees dont il a besoin sur
place.
LA GESTION DU PROJET
Le credit n2653-Gui, conclu en octobre 1994 entre la Republique de Guinee et
l'association intemational de developpement IDA est entre en vigueur en decembre 1994.
II se compose ainsi qu'il suit:
Montant total du credit .................. 16.300.000 DTS
dont:
Importations generales (aide a la balance de paiement): 12.800.000
Assistance technique, formation et equipements:           2.365.000
Remboursement avance preparation projet:            1.060.000
Montant non alloue:                                           75.000
En decomposant le montant de DTS 2.365.000 entre les trois (composantes) du projet
nous aurons le tableau ci-dessous qui indique les categories de travaux, fournitures et
services qui doivent etre finances au moyen du credit 2653-Gui.
Categories    Description                        Montant
(en DTS)
Services de consultants
1A            BCRG                               590.000
1B            Ministere des finances              150.000
IC            Ministere de la justice            435.000
2             Fournitures et materiaux
2A            BCRG                               530.000
2B            Ministere des finances              150.000
2C            Mmistere de la justice             510.000
3             Importations gdndrales              12.800.000
4             Remboursement de l'avance           1.060.000
5             Non alloue                         75.000
_  Total                           16.300.000
27



Apres le report de la date de cl6ture au 31 decembre 1998, le Ministre des finances par
lettre en date du 7 mai 1998 a demande une reallocation des fonds. Ainsi les nouvelles
allocations par categories telles que figurant dans l'accord du credit sont les suivantes
Categories    Description                          Montant revise
(en DTS)
1             Services de consultants
IA            BCRG                                 941.602
1B            Minist6re des finances               200.000
iC            Minist6re de lajustice               805.000
2             Fourmitures et materiaux
2A            BCRG                                 580.000
2B            Ministere des finances               300.000
2C            Minist6re de lajustice               560.000
3             Importations generales
(aide a la balance de paiement)      12.386.280
4             Remboursement de l'avance pour la
preparation du projet                527.118
5             Non alloue                           0
Total                                16.300.000
A la cl6ture du projet, le pourcentage d'execution du proj et est a plus de 98%, pendant
que les lignes de credit (3) Importations generales, (4) Remboursement de l'avance pour
la preparation du projet et (5) Non alloue sont ex6cutees a 100%, l'execution des autres
lignes: services de consultants et fourniture de materiaux a la date du 31 decembre 1998
se presente ainsi qu'il suit:
Categories     Description      Montant    Montant d6pens6       Solde
alloue (en      (en DTS)        en DTS    d'ex6cution
________                 ~~~DTS)                                   _  _ _  _
1     Services de
consultants
1A     BCRG                  941.602        748.454,47      193.147,53     79,5
1B     Minist6re des finances   200.000     179.641,02      20.358,98      90,0
iC     Minist6re de lajustice    805.000    762.110,60      42.889,40      95,0
2     FournitLires et
materiaux
2A     BCRG                  580.000        569.747,89      10.252,11      98,5
2B     Ministere des finances   300.000     284.557,42      15.442,58      95,0
2C     Minist&re de la justice    560.000   558.716,50       1.283,50      99,77
_________  I____________   3.386.602  3.103.227,90   283.374,10     91,63
CONCLUSION
Toutes !es trois (3) composantes du projet a savoir: la Banque Centrale de la Republique
de Guinee (BCRG), les Ministeres de la Justice et des Finances se felicitent du niveau
d'execution des actions inscrites au programme.
Dans l'ensemble, le projet a ete globalement satisfaisant et des reformes assez
remarquables ont 6te enregistrees dans l'environnement dans lequel operent les
institutions financi&es et judiciaires.
28



Aussi, des actions de formation ont et hautement appreciees par les autorites des trois
(3) departements concernes. Toutefois, le Gouvernement Guineen souhaite que la Banque
Mondiale continue son assistance au secteur financier et judiciaire.
29



REPUBLIQUE DE GUI1NEE
MISSION DE LA BANQUE MONDIALE (Conakry 22 - 30 Septembre 1998)
CREDIT D'AJUSTEMENT DU SECTEUR FINANCIER (CREDIT 2653-GUI)
PREPARATION DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
AIDE-MEMOIRE
I     Une mission de la Banque Mondiale composee de A. Yero Bald6 (Economiste,
Charge d'Operations) a sejourne a Conakry du 22 au 30 Septembre 1998 . L'objectif de
la mission etait de discuter avec les autorites Guineennes de la Preparation du Rapport de
Fin d'Execution (RFE) du projet CASFI.
2     La mission a eu des entretiens avec les cadres de la Banque Centrale, du Ministere
de l'Economie et des Finances et du Ministere de la Justice responsables de l'execution
du projet. La mission remercie ces cadres pour leur disponibilite et leur cooperation .
3     Les Conditions Generales et les Clauses Specifiques contenues dans tous les
accords de credit, stipulent que les Emprunteurs ont l'obligation d'assurer un suivi
regulier du projet, et de preparer en fin de projet un Rapport de Fin d'Execution dudit
projet. Cette obligation a plusieurs objectifs:
= ameliorer la qualite et l'efficacit6 des prets de la Banque Mondiale, renforcer la
competence de l'Emprunteur a concevoir, ex6cuter et gerer les projets;
-amener la Banque Mondiale et l'Emprunteur a rendre compte de la gestion des fonds, et
de conduire les activites de la Banque Mondiale dans la transparence;
-permettre A la Banque et A l'Emprunteur de tirer les le,ons de l'experience grace A une
evaluation retrospective de la prestation des institutions et du personnel charges de la
gestion du projet, ainsi que des retombees du projet sur le developpement du pays qui
doitchercher a les maximiser.
A. Presentation du RFE
4.    Le plan du RFE qui est applicable A toutes les operations de pret de la Banque
Mondiale se presente sous la forme d'un document distinguant le point de vue de la
Banque de celui de l'Emprunteur sur le deroulement du projet.
Il se composera des trois parties suivantes:
a. Partie 1: Celle-ci sera preparee par la Banque Mondiale dans les trois mois suivant la
date de cl6ture du credit. Elle recapitulera les principales activites survenues durant
l'ex6cution du projet , analysera les questions d'importances particulieres pour la
Banque. Elle mettra un accent sur le niveau de realisation des objectifs du projet, les
prestations de la Banque et de l'Emprunteur dans l'execution du projet, et les
enseignements qu'on peut en tirer.
Par ailleurs, cette partie fera une evaluation de la viabilite future des actions accomplies
dans le cadre de ce projet.
30



b. Partie 2: Cette partie sera prepar6e par l'Emprunteur et ne devra pas depasser dix
pages. Elle sera envoyee a la Banque dans les trois mois suivant la fin de la mission de
fin d'execution et sera integree au RFE.
Dans cette partie, l'Emprunteur presentera une evaluation retrospective des objectifs, de
la conception, de l'execution du projet, son impact sur le developpement de la Guin6e, et
de l'experience qui en decoule.
Par ailleurs, en plus de l'evaluation de sa propre performance, l'Emprunteur procedera a
une evaluation de la performance de la Banque et des institutions intervenues dans le
cofinancement du projet depuis la phase de pr6paration jusqu'a la phase d'execution; il
portera une appreciation sur ses relations avec la Banque et les cofinanciers, et mettra un
accent particulier sur les le,ons qu'on peut en tirer pour le futur.
L'Emprunteur preparera aussi un plan d'actions pour assurer la perennite des actions et
des reformes mises en place dans le cadre de ce projet.
c. Partie 3: Cette partie sera preparee par la Banque dans les trois mois suivant la date de
cl6ture du credit et portera sur les donnees statistiques justifiant cette evaluation; c'est-a-
dire celles relatives aux principaux aspects de l'operation et de son execution,
notamment le calendrier du projet, les decaissements prevus et realises, les indicateurs
cles de l'execution du projet, les etudes realisees,et les ressources financieres consacrees
par la Banque au projet.
B. Calendrier d'e1aboration du RFE
5.    La Banque Mondiale achevera les parties 1 et 3 du RFE dans les trois mois
suivant la date de cl6ture du credit. La partie 1 sera transmise a l'Emprunteur tel que
mentionne dans l'accord de credit ainsi qu'aux institutions de cofinancement pour qu'ils
en prennent connaissance et fassent si necessaire des observations.
6.    L'emprunteur commencera a r6diger la partie 2 au moment meme oul la Banque
redige les parties 1 et 3.
Deux mois apres la date de cloture du projet (F6vrier 1999), l'Emprunteur soumettra a la
Banque la partie 2 pour commentaires et observations.
Cette deuxieme partie sera egalement transmise aux institutions de cofinancement pour
information.
7.    La partie 2 ne sera pas modifiee par la Banque sauf pour y ajouter des notes
explicatives ou des objections le cas echeant. Dans la presentation finale de RFE, il sera
signale que la partie 2 figure telle que redigee par l'Emprunteur et que son contenu ne
peut etre attribue a la Banque.
8.    Des qu'il sera acheve, le RFE sera transmis par le Departement Secteur Prive et
Finance AFTP1 au Conseil d'Administration de la Banque Mondiale.
9.    La mission adresse ses encouragements aux autorites guineennes dans le sens a
les amener a presenter un point de vue independant en ce qui concerne leur evaluation du
31






MAP SECTION






14-? _                    N                12                                          10
-                       T - Kouncla- Jr
G   {'N E A -                                                                                                                   QN 4>   X  ' <  o Wo? agussoIo   M     A   L  I
a,-4BISSAU                                 k          x1,-  .          Si                  t     \ '=  *I  '7  '.                                                                   ,- l2-
-~~'B I SSAU                                        Mali~I                                           -
kauai  L
2hs / Koubia  j '7 g \ < w u                                         0
(                                                   Lo9<             iWbe  *Tugue    ,Dinguiraye -D                 TS         Siguiri
Lk ou
angar6di  Pita*        /                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Niandakoro0 /~
<\=    6rTiimele \nm K3'~                                     ~ -- -7 treo
conolityS~~~~~~~~Dboo /--  SIRALEN-. )< Mri  
Kouous            /        Mudin
~ ri
IF                                   *Mamou
I                  ~~~~~~~~N,
O C E A N   :i,y>7    G U I N E A                             n2o  8    Z  T 7                                        0 ~~~~~ I N             0~
14* ~        -Yini                                                    Faao                            G  /t        iN; 1                                  l0r  q
~~ ~---~>    SIERRA LEONE  Nm
Cnkry 
ATLANTIC                   '       o6aa                                                                                               Krun               
OCEAN                              .-.2                GUNA                                                    ugou
MAURITANIA       |                           NATIONAL CAPITAL                                   (G    IN  E                  * Beylo
SENEGALY' 0t two__          iADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS                                                            Mo Gutc  3 gS IEREi-a               .              W
</ SENEGALY vI/                                      PREFECTURE CAPITALS                     R)STIERE
TIlE                 ~~MALI                                                                                                       i. 
G      t,                      _               ---   PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES             J
GIJ     ~                          B~ -'  ~ -A-/-/l   48URKINA -8  '"  ADMINISTRATIVE REGION BOUNDARIES  ,~  (                                              COTE           B8
8153   GUINEA  >^ ,       BURKINASO           -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                   /       f        /p fk q                            ,        DIOR
GUINEA                                                                                                                 AorjFSO  'v   LI 
~~onoIcay  I          ~~~0                                                 200                                 *    r        ~    ~D'IVOIRE
SIERRA     E .          C6TE                I                                    .1I
KILOMETERS                                                   *Yorou
C                         ~~~~~~~~~D'IVOIRE  *
O    ATlANTIC               ERIA  ;.                   The boundrwies, colors, denominations ond any other information                                                                         ;aI I o t m  I n  m   o th p  o h
c A r b A N r s c liBxERIA \ \shown on this map do not imply, an the part of The WorldS Itonl:.    LIB rIA,J*|v-\     
-s                                (            A       any judgment on the kgal status of any ferrifory, or any endorsement                                                                    N4
aa     O COCEAN                                        o or acceptance of such boundorics.                             1
a                                    Gu0 ef Guinea                         I



