Report No. PIC709
Project Name              Guinea-Financial Sector Operation
Region                          Africa
Sector                          Financial Sector
Project ID                      GNPA1078
Population Profile              1993 estimates  6 million
Urban  27t   Rural: 73t
Density 24/Km2
Growth Rate 2.9
Infant Mortality 133 per thousand
Life expectancy 44 years
Literacy Rate   34 W
Implementing Agency             Central Bank of Guinea (BCRG)
Ministry of Plan and Finance
Ministry of Justice
Date PID Prepared               July 1994
Projected Board Date           August 1994
1.   The Country.   Located in West Africa, Guinea spans a territory of
246,000 square kilometers. It shares frontiers with six African
countries. In the south, it is bordered by the Gulf of Guinea. Its
main economic activities are mining and agriculture; its per capita
income is US$537 (1993). About 75t of its 6 million population live in
rural areas, while 90t of the remaining 1.5 million live in the capital
city of Conakry.
2.   The Financial Sector.   The financial sector of Guinea comprises:
(a) the Banque Centrale de la Rbpublique de Guinbe (BCRG); (b) six
commercial banks; (c) four insurance companies; (d) two rural credit
projects; (e) a social security institution, Caisse Nationale de
Sbcuritb Sociale (CNSS); (f) several funds and credit lines set up by
donors; and (g) an informal sector (which is estimated to be larger than
the formal financial sector). Total assets of the financial sector (as
of September 1992) were approximately GNF 247 billion, of which 92 ;
were held by commercial banks.
3.   The financial sector faces a number of problems.     One of these is
due to an inadequate judiciary system that, notably, does not enforce
contracts effectively. Banks were earning most of their income from
foreign currency operations, rather than traditional banking services.
Until the recent introduction of an auction money market, idle funds
earned no interest and banks had curtailed their deposit mobilization
efforts. Furthermore, banks were suffering from a large non-performing
portfolio. There is an emerging money market but no bond market.
Insurance companies also had their share of problems. Most of these
difficulties result from internal weaknesses, within the institutions
including the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. Additionally,
the lack of an effective monetary, regulatory and legal environment
aggravates the situation. However, despite these constraints, rural



financial companies have been successful both in mobilizing resources
and lending on a small scale.
4.   Project Objectives.   The proposed credit would support a multi-
faceted financial sector reform program to be undertaken in the context
of the country's medium-term economic program. The operation's
objectives are to: (a) strengthen the monetary, regulatory, supervisory
and judicial environment; (b) develop a bridge between the informal and
formal sectors to increase the reach of the financial sector; and (c)
build upon the human resources base, and improve institutional capacity.
5.   Project Description.   The project will help Government and BCRG
develop indirect instruments of monetary management, such as open market
operations, disengage from the capital and management of financial
institutions, adopt regulation, and reinforce supervision of all
categories of financial institutions. It will also allow to take
measures to improve the judicial system. The mutualistic savings and
loan institutions will be extended in rural areas, and introduced in
Conakry. The project will also include training of Ministry of Finance,
Central Bank, commercial bank and insurance company staff, as well as
members of the legal profession.
6.   Project Financing.   The proposed project (US$23 million equivalent)
will be financed by IDA. The project has an adjustment component of
US$18 million equivalent, and a technical assistance component of US$5
million equivalent. The program has been developed in close
collaboration with other donors, including CFD, USAID, and CIDA. They
will finance a portion of the technical assistance for a total amount of
about US$3.1 million.
7.   Project Implementation.   The program has been designed to clearly
define monitorable actions. Processing of the proposed credit will
depend upon satisfactory progress in the implementation of the reform
program outlined in the Letter of Financial Sectoral Development Policy
and Policy Matrix. A "steering committee" of concerned agencies and
donors will coordinate individual efforts and oversee the implementation
of the overall program.
8.   Environmental Aspects.   There are no environmental implications
from this proposed project.
9.   Project Benefits.   The program will lead to a competitive, solvent,
and self-sustainable financial sector which will cater to the needs of
savers, investors, and borrowers in the formal and informal sectors. An
efficient financial sector will contribute to an effective monetary and
credit policy, as well as to the stability of the Guinean economy. It
will support economic growth and social progress. The financial sector
reform program will also facilitate the development of the private
sector and the privatization of public enterprises. Through the rural
finance schemes, the program will reach owners of small businesses,
particularly women, and contribute to poverty alleviation. The reform
program emphasizes governance, institution building, human resource
development, and rehabilitation of the judicial system.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
- 2 -



The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note:      This is information based on an evolving project.    Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
- 3 -



