Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2653 GUI
                       Development Credit Agreement
                   (Financial Sector Adjustment Credit)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated October 19, 1994
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2653 GUI
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated October 19, 1994, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Association has received a letter dated August 18,
1994, from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and
policies designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower's financial sector
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in
the financing of urgently needed imports and services required during such
execution;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to receive from the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID), the Canada through the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA), the Caisse Francaise de
Developpement (CFD), the European Union through the European Development
Fund (EDF) grants in a total amount equivalent to approximately three
million dollars to assist in the financing of services required for the
execution of the Program on terms and conditions set forth in the respective
grant agreements (the Financing Agreements) to be entered into between the
Page  2
Borrower and each of the aforementioned entities; and
      (C)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower
by making the Credit as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be
      financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to the provisions
      of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.";
      (b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
      later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and
      the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
      Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Association shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Program
      referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective
      obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the
      accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
      (c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to letters,
dated May 6, 1993 and November 12, 1993;
      (b)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification,
Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical
Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986);
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (d)   "BCRG" means the Central Bank of the Borrower;
      (e)   "MPF" means the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for
Planning and Finance; and
      (f)   "MOJ" means the Ministry of Justice of the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixteen million
three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
Page  3
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its central bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1997 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15,
2005 and ending July 15, 2034. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on July 15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
      Section 2.09. (a) The Governor of BCRG is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions in respect of Category (3) of the table
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower
hereby entrusts BCRG with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal
applications in respect of Category (3) of the table referred to in
paragraph (a) above and for the collection of the documents and other
evidence to be furnished to the Association in support of such applications;
such withdrawal applications shall, to the extent practicable, be
consolidated so as to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less
than $1,000,000 equivalent.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) promptly and diligently
undertake all measures required on its part to carry out all the actions
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (b) carry out by April 30,
1995, a mid-term review with the Association to review the progress achieved
in the execution of the Program; and (c) promptly implement the
recommendations resulting from the mid-term review as they shall have been
agreed upon with the Association.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain,
throughout the execution of the Program, a Program Steering Committee with
membership, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the expenditures financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for the
                  Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
                  to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than 6 months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Page  5
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all
                  records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                  Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
                  year, together with the procedures and internal controls
                  involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
                  support the related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
      (b)   (i)   subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right
                  of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any grant
                  made to the Borrower for the financing of the Program
                  shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                  whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
                  providing therefor.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation or termination is not
                        caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform
                        any of its obligations under such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                        Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                        consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                        under this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
      Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
Page  6
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for planning
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning and Finance
            B. P. 579
            Conakry
            Republic of Guinea
                                          Telex:
                                            22399 MIFIGE
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                        By /s/ El Hadji Boubacar Barry
                        Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                        Regional Vice President
                        Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
Page  7
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Consultants'
    services and
    training for:
    (a)  BCRG                    590,000        100%
    (b)  MPF                     150,000        100%
    (c)  MOJ                     435,000        100%
(2) Goods, equip-
    ment, materials
    and supplies
    for:
    (a)  BCRG                    530,000        100%
    (b)  MPF                     150,000        100%
    (c)  MOJ                     510,000        100%
(3) General                   12,800,000         100%
     import
(4)  Refunding of Project      1,060,000         Amounts due pur-
     Preparation Advance                         suant to Section
                                                 2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(5)  Unallocated                  75,000
                              __________
         TOTAL                16,300,000
                              ==========
2.  Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the
proceeds of the Credit allocated to Category (3) may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made under Category (3) in respect of:
    (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to
the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
       112                --          Alcoholic beverages
       121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
                                      refuse
       122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                      or not containing tobacco
                                      substitutes)
       Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
       525                --          Radioactive and
                                      associated materials
       667                --          Pearls, precious and
                                      semiprecious stones, unworked or
                                      worked
       718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and
                                      parts thereof, fuel elements
Page  8
                                      (cartridges), nonirradiated
                                      for nuclear reactors
       728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
       897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                      platinum group metals
                                      (except watches and watch cases)
                                      and goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                      wares (including set gems)
       971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
                                      gold ores and concentrates)
    (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied
from the territory of the Borrower;
    (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of SDR 3,250,000 may be made on account of payments made for such
expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1994;
    (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than
$5,000 equivalent;
    (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any
national or international financing institution or agency other than the
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
    (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary
purpose or for luxury consumption; and
    (g)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to SDR
6,400,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
4.  Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of
goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 in respect of Categories (1), (2)
and for goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 in respect of Category
(3) may be required by the Association to be made on the basis of statements
of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
specify.
5.  No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to
pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated under Category
(3) after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of SDR 6,400,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory to the Association: (a) with the progress
achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program; (b) that a
satisfactory macroeconomic framework is in place; and (c) that the actions
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken.
6.  If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 5 above, the
Association shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress
achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory and, within 90 days after
such notice, the Borrower shall not have achieved progress and taken actions
satisfactory to the Association, then the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                                Procurement
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
1.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of $2,000,000 or more each and contracts for computer equipment required for
the purposes of technical assistance estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
Page  9
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to
the following modifications:
    (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is
substituted therefor:
    "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a timely manner
    of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations
    to apply for inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for
    prequalification, or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at
    least one newspaper of general circulation in the Borrower's country
    and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication, Development
                Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical
                journal of wide international circulation; or
        (iii)   a notice to local representatives of countries and
                territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
                potential suppliers of the goods required."
    (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the
Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the
    bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely used in
    international trade and specified in the bidding documents."
    (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
    (d)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is
delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency component
of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation.
    (e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this paragraph 1,
the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed
to be necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.  (a)   Contracts for the procurement of equipment for the purposes of
technical assistance shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost
the equivalent of at least $250,000 each.
    (b)   For each such contract, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall
be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required
to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first withdrawal
out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
3.  Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent
of less than $2,000,000 and contracts for the procurement of equipment for
the purposes of technical assistance up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $1,100,000 shall be awarded:
    (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures,
provided that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the
Association; and
Page  10
    (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial
practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of
evaluation comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at least
two countries, except that direct contracting procedures acceptable to the
Association may be used where considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of
the Guidelines.
4.  Goods procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above
shall be exempted from price preshipment inspection by a third party
inspection firm.
5.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids
and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and
tendering procedures followed and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. Where payments under a contract are to be made out
of the proceeds of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to this
paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence
required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
6.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect thereof, such documentation and
information as the Association may reasonably request to support withdrawal
applications in respect of such contract. Where payments under a contract
are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation
and the information to be furnished to the Association pursuant to the
provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part
of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
7.  The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account
are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carry out the Program, the Borrower
shall employ experts and consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ
such consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for
Consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to
contracts estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this
exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract
value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                  Actions Referred to in Paragraph 5 (c)
                      of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
Page  11
1.  (a)   A regulatory framework satisfactory to the Association, has been
enacted to govern the activities of insurance companies, savings and loans
institutions and financial market operations.
    (b)   Prudential regulations and appropriate surveillance mechanisms
related thereto have been enacted for the social security company.
2.  The Central Bank has: (a) established procedures satisfactory to the
Association to carry out an effective and efficient supervision of all
financial institutions under its jurisdiction; and (b) established an
appropriate mechanisms to supervise the activities of savings and loans
institutions.
3.  Rules of procedures satisfactory to the Association have been
established to facilitate the recovery of loans made by financial
institutions.
4.  A media campaign to educate the public on the functioning of the
judicial system and disseminate information pertaining to the rules of
procedures referred to in paragraph 3 above has been carried out.
5.  A schedule of fees to be levied by courts and tribunals for registration
and processing of judicial claims has been published.
6.  A judicial gazette has been established to ensure a regular publication
of decisions of the courts and tribunals of Guinea.
7.  An action plan satisfactory to the Association has been adopted to
expand mutual credit and rural credit operations and to launch a savings
bank pilot scheme in Conakry.
8.  Appropriate mechanisms and a realistic calendar acceptable to the
Association have been adopted to reduce the Borrower's share in the capital
stock of financial institutions, and the said reduction has been undertaken
in accordance with the calendar referred to above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required during the execution of
the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
Page  12
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit, less the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit follow such procedures as the Association shall specify
by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  13
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
              (referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement)
    In order to execute the Program, the Borrower shall carry out the
following activities:
Part A:   Strengthening of BCRG
1.  Establishment of a computer system and a telecommunications network and
training of relevant BCRG's staff to adequately operate and maintain the
said systems.
2.  Development of adequate instruments and procedures required to sustain
the execution of financial market transactions.
3.  (a)   Formulation and implementation of: (i) a uniform accounting plan
for commercial banks and (ii) a uniform insurance accounting plan; and
    (b)   training of the relevant staff of BCRG and of commercial banks in
the use of the said plans.
4.  Revision and updating of the legal and regulatory framework governing
the carrying out of insurance activities and the operations of savings and
loans institutions.
5.  Strengthening of BCRG's units responsible for the supervision of the
activities of commercial banks.
6.  Formulation and execution of an action plan to: (a) develop mutual
savings and loan institutions; and (b) establish and launch the operations
of a Study and Assistance Fund aimed at assisting small borrowers to prepare
adequately their project proposals and related financing requests.
7.  (a)   Establishment of a macroeconomic unit within BCRG to collect and
analyze financial and economic data required to set appropriate monetary
policies and trigger BCRG's interventions in financial markets; and (b) on-
the-job training of the relevant staff of the said unit.
8.  (a)   Establishment in due course of a Legal Department within BCRG and
strengthening it to ensure ready and immediate access to legal services
required for the day-to-day operations of BCRG; and (b) provision of on-the-
job training and study tours for the relevant staff of the said Legal
Department.
9.  (a)   Development of appropriate procedures to ensure an efficient
keeping of BCRG's documents and archives; and (b) training of the relevant
staff of BCRG to implement the said procedures.
10.       Creation of a banking training center to provide continuing
technical training to the staff of BCRG, other financial insti-tutions and
magistrates.
Part B:   Ministry of Planning and Finance
    Strengthening the internal capacity of MPF to fully master all the
requisites and determinants of monetary policy formulation and supervision
of financial institutions.
Part C:   Ministry of Justice
1.  (a)   Review and updating of selected pieces of legislation pertaining
to the carrying out of business and economic activity; and (b) training of
relevant staff in efficient legal drafting techniques.
2.  Editing and publishing of a judicial gazette.
3.  (a)   Establishment and maintenance of a computerized data bank of
judicial decisions; and (b) training of the relevant staff in the use and
maintenance of the said data bank.
Page  14
4.  Formulation and execution of a media campaign to: (a) disseminate the
laws and educate the public about citizens rights and obligations; and (b)
promote a wide public understanding of the functioning of the judicial
system in Guinea.
5.  Establishment and operation of a specialized law library in Conakry.
Part D:   Supreme Court of Justice
    Formulation and execution of a specific training program tailored to the
immediate priority needs of judges and magistrates of the Supreme Court of
Justice.
Part E:   Financial Institutions
1.  Assessment of the training needs for the relevant staff of financial
institutions operating in Guinea.
2.  Formulation and execution of a training program responsive to the needs
identified through the assessment referred to under paragraph 1 above.
