Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17494-CV
PROJECT A.PPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$ 9.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR A
PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
June 24, 1998
Private Sector and Finance
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit            Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
US$1                     100.00 CVE (as of June 16, 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                   African Development Bank
ANV                    Agencia ANacional de Viagems (National Travel Agency)
ARCA VERDE             Companhia Nacional de A'avegacdo Arca Verde (National Maritime Company)
ASA                    Empresa Nacional de Aeroportos e Seguran,a Aerea (National Companv for Airports and Air Traffic Safety'
BCA                    Banco Comercial do Atlantico (Atlantic Commercial Bank)
CABMAR/CABNAVE   Shipyard and Assets Management Companies
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CBPSP                  Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion
CECV                   Caixa Economica de Cabo Verde (Savings Bank of Cape Verde)
CERIS                  Sociedade C'aboverdeana de Cerveja e Refrigerantes (Cape Verdean Company for Beer and Soft Drinks)
CORREIOS               Correios de Cabo Verde (Cape Verde Postal Services)
CPSQCA                 Consumer Product Standard and Quality Control Agency
CVC                    Constru,c5es de Cabo Verde (Cape Verde Constructions)
CVT                    Cabo Verde Telecom (Cape Verde Telecom)
ELECTRA                Empresa Publica de Electricidade e Agua (Public Company for Electricity and Water)
EMPA                   Empresa Puiblica de Abastecimento (Public Procurement Company)
EMPROFAC               Empresa Nacional de Produtos Farmaceuticos (National Company for Pharmaceutical Products)
ENACOL                 Empresa Nacional de Combustiveis (National Company for Fuels and Lubricants)
ENAPOR                 Empresa Nacional de Administraqdo dos Portos (National Company for Port Administration)
ENAVI                  Empresa NVacional de Avicultura (National Company for Poultry)
ERSO                   Economic Reforms Support Operation
EU                     Eufopean Union
FAMA                   Fabrica de Mfassas de Cabo Verde (Pasta Production Company of Cape Verde)
GARANTIA               Companhia de Seguros (Insurance Company)
GARSEE                 Gabinete de Apoio ia Reestruturaqdo do Sector Empresarial do Estado (PTAP Implementing Unit)
IATA                   International Air Transport Association
IBRD                   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO                   International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA                    International Development Association
IFC                    International Finance Corporation
INERF                  Civil Work and Hydraulics Corporation
INTERBASE              Empresa de Comercializa,do de Produtos do Mar (Fisheries Marketing Enterprise)
MIGA                   Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MOAVE                  Moagem de Cabo Verde (Flour Milling Company of Cape Verde)
OVPM                   Office of the Vice Prime Minister
PCU                    Project Coordinating Unit
PE                     Public Enterprise
PROMEX                 Centro de Promo,do Turistica, Exporta,ces e Investimentos (Tourism, Export and Investment Promotion Cei
PROMOTORA              Venture Capital Company
PTAP                   Privatization and Technical Assistance Project
PRCP                   Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
SCS                    Sociedade Caboverdeana de Saboes (Cape Verdean Soap Factory)
SOE                    State Owned Enterprise
SODIGAS                Sociedade Industrial de Gases (Industrial Gas Company)
SONACOR                Sociedade NVacional de Conservagdo e Reparafdo de Equipamentos (National Company for Maintenance and
Repair of Equipment)
TACV                   Transportes Aereos de Cabo Verde (Cape Verde Airlines)
TIP                    Transport and Infrastructure Project
TRANSCOR               Empresa de Transportes Rodoviarios de Passageiros (Urban Passenger Transport Company)
Vice-President          :Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director        :Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager          :Thomas W. Allen
Task Team Leader        :Jean-MichelI N. Happi       |



Cape Verde
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators .......... .                     2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project  .....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .... .   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ......  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices . . . . . . . . .   4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components .............. ....................                                   .    8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project.                                 8
3. Benefits and target population.                                                                9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection   .....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .     .   10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies.  .    12
3. Lessons learned and reflected iin proposed project design .....  .            .  .  .  .  .  .     .   13
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . .  13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic ....... ............................... .  14
2. Technical .15
3. Institutional ....................... ............... .   15
4.   Social   .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .     .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .  .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .  .    .    .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .  .    .    .  .  15
5. Environmental assessment  ....................  ....  ....                                   .    16
6. Participatory approach  ...............................  ..   17
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability  ..................................                                           17
2.  Critical risks   .    .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  18
3. Possible controversial aspects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .  20
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. 'Negotiation conditions  . .. . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .  20
2. Board conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 20
3. Effectiveness conditions .............................. .  20
4. Other ..................................                                                     20
H. Readiness for Implementation .................  ....  ....  ..                                 .  20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    21



Annexes
Annex 1      Project Design Summary                                           22
Annex 2      Project Description                                             26
Annex 3      Estimated Project Costs                                          33
Annex 4      Economic Analysis Summary                                        34
Annex 5      Financial Summary                                               35
Annex 6      Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                        36
Table A      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements                     36
Table B      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review           39
Table C- I    Allocation of Credit Proceeds                                40
Table C-2    Allocation of Credit Proceeds per Component                   40
Annex 7      Project Processing Budget and Schedule                           42
Annex 8      Documents in Project File                                        43
Annex 9      Statement of Loans and Credits                                   44
Annex 10      Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio            45
Annex 11     Cape Verde at a Glance                                           46
Map          IBRD 27215



Cape Verde
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 14
Date: June 18, 1998                                Task Team Leader/Task Manager: Jean-Michel N. Happi
Country Manager/Director: Mahmood A. Ayub          Sector Manager/Director: Thomas W. Allen
Project ID: CV-PE-55467  Sector: Technical Assistance  Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan      Program of Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [I] No
Project Financing Data              [I] Loan       [X] Credit      [I  Guarantee    [I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$ 9.0 Million / SDR 6.8 million on standard IDA terms
Proposed terms:                        [    Multicurrency     [X] Single currency: US dollars
Grace period (years): 10 years    []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [     LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: Standard IDA
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local             Foreign           Total
Government: US$ 1.0 million                               0.36               0.64              1.00
IDA:       U$$ 9.0 million                                2.34               6.66              9.00
Total        2.70               7.30             10.00
Borrower: Government of the Republic of Cape Verde
Guarantor: Not applicable
Responsible agency: Office of the Vice Prime Minister
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1998      1999        2000      2001    2002
Annual 1.30       2.40        2.63       1.56    1.11
Cumulative  1.30      3.70       6.33       7.89    9.00
For Guarantees:                                [    Partial credit   [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization profile
Financing available without guarantee?:            []   Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 4 years Expected effectiveness date: 1 1/20/1998    Expected closing date: 12/31/2002



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Project's development objective is to support Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) efforts to alleviate poverty
through the achievement of a higher, private sector-based economic growth. The Project would support GOCV policy of:
(a) reducing the size of the State and changing its role from that of an implementor to one that provides an enabling
environment necessary for private sector development; and (b) increasing private participation in key economic sectors,
including utilities, trade and transport, through the development of effective policy and regulatory frameworks.
Progress towards these objectives will be monitored through the implementation of GOCV's withdrawal from productive
sectors, and the setting up and strengthening of regulatory framework and institutions. Privatization, supported by
effective regulation, would contribute to increased enterprise efficiency, value added and Government revenues, and
improved quality and quantity of services. Reform of existing utility and transport regulation would help lower
compliance costs.
The GOCV is looking to privatization as a means of reducing its domestic debt, in addition to improving the economy's
efficiency. The Project would provide technical assistance (TA) to help GOCV implement an accelerated privatization
program, which is at the core of its economic reforms supported by the parallel IDA-financed Economic Reforms Support
Operation (ERSO, Credit 3027-CV). Achievement of these reforms would contribute to the fulfillment of Government's
fiscal balance and macroeconomic stability objectives.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Report No. 1 7206-CV, dated December 1, 1997
Date of latest CAS discussion: December 23, 1997
The proposed Project is fully consistent with IDA's Country Assistance Strategy for Cape Verde, which rests on three
broad pillars: (a) achieving a viable and stable macroeconomic framework; (b) consolidating policy reforms in support of
private sector development; and (c) accelerating poverty reduction and social sector development.
In the area of private sector development, the Project will directly contribute to meeting the CAS objectives of further
reducing the role of Government in productive sectors and creating an environment conducive to private sector
investment and operation. This would be accomplished through effective implementation of the accelerated privatization
program and capacity building for strengthening regulatory functions.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The PE sector reform and divestiture program in Cape Verde dates back to 1992. This program followed the country's
shift from a centrally-planned to a market-oriented economy, and marked the beginning of GOCV's policy to open the
economy and integrate it with the world through a market-driven development strategy based on lessened, and indirect
State intervention and a vibrant, aggressive private sector.  The key to this transformation, besides fiscal and
macroeconomic stability and economic liberalization, was a drastic reduction in the State's role in the productive areas of
the economy, both to attract domestic and foreign investors, as well as to ensure that the economy becomes more
efficient. At the beginning of the program, there were nearly 50 wholly state-owned and mixed-economy enterprises
involved in virtually all sectors. They employed more than 6,600 persons, accounted for 20 percent of employment in the
formal sector; and generated about 25 percent of GDP. They generally had low productivity, high losses and rising debts,
which placed a concurrent burden on the banking system, public finances and the balance of payments.
In 1992, the Government launched a comprehensive public enterprise reform program, supported by IDA's Privatization
and Technical Assistance Project (PTAP, Credit 2377-CV). This reform program has achieved most of its development
objectives. The size of the State-owned enterprise (SOE) sector has been reduced to 30 enterprises, including 19 with
majority State shareholding, most of which are utilities, public service companies and financial institutions. In the



Page 3
process, over 41 new, fully private companies were created from the fragmentation of former SOEs into separate
companies and the corporatization of State-run operating assets, which were then divested. A review of the performance
of privatized enterprises shows that most of them have improved since their transfer to the private sector, in terms of
sales, gross value added, investments and, in several cases, profits before taxes. An interesting feature of the Cape
Verdean divestiture process is that it has created twice as many jobs as were lost during the process.
The overall performance of entetprises remaining in the public sector has also improved. From a deficit of CVE 600
million in 1991, SOEs aggregate earnings before taxes became positive in 1993 and have since steadily increased to over
CVE 640 million in 1996. In the meantime, the Government has slashed direct budgetary transfers to most SOEs. Only a
few remaining loss-making PEs continue to benefitl from indirect transfers, notably through forgone, unpaid taxes and
arrears to GOCV, and GOCV's assuming their debt obligations to foreign creditors and domestic bank (e.g., BCA).
Moreover, the share of SOEs in domestic credit has decreased from an annual average of 24 percent in 1990-94 to less
than 5 percent in 1995-1997. The 19 enterprises remaining with majority State shareholding include: (a) utilities
operating water and electricity, manufacturing and transport companies; (b) trade-related companies providing food aid
distribution, drug import and postal services, respectively; and (c) financial institutions providing banking, insurance and
venture capital services. In 1996, the combined gross assets of PEs (excluding commercial banks) totaled CVE 29.18
billion (US$ 291 million); they employed over 5300 people and their value added represented about 10 percent of GDP.
Three problems have constrained implementation of the privatization program: (i) gaps in sector policy and regulation of
public services companies, particularly in utility, transport and infrastructure; (ii) inefficient institutional arrangements for
restructuring key SOEs in cases where this is necessary prior to privatization; and (iii) financial burden resulting from
SOE employee retrenchment costs and from the Government having to assume the financial liabilities of privatized
enterprises.
There is inadequate institutional capacity within Government to implement the second generation of privatization, which
is much more complex than the first phase. Future privatization would require substantial skills and experience in a large
number of technical areas, including utility sector specialization, concession and leasing design, procurement rules and
contracting practices, and rules for issuing Govermnent guarantees. Shortages of expertise in dealing with these issues
have been a constraint in designing an efficient process for inviting private participation in utilities under the previous
PTAP.
Moreover, the current regulatory framework lacks clarity in a wide range of matters, such as competitive market
structures, enforcement of regulatory arrangements, "public service" obligations and financing, and delineation of
responsibilities for regulation, supervision and operations, all functions which have been performeddefacto by the same
public utilities (e.g., TACV in air transport, CVT in telecommunications, EMPROFAC in pharmaceuticals). Most sectors
still require comprehensive analysis and definition of necessary regulations to address these issues and also attract private
operators. Institutions responsible for enforcing the regulatory framework need to be refocused and coordinated in order
to improve their efficiency and ensure their sustainability. Such institutions were created for each sector, resulting in
separate arrangements for water, electricity, communications, civil aviation, maritime transport, urban collective
transport, and pharmaceuticals, respectively, without economies of scale and consistency across sectors.  These
institutions don't have appropriate decision-making independence and accountability, nor are they financially viable.
To accelerate the pace of privatization, the GOCVY, in its program supported by the ERSO, intends to: (i) complete the
remaining divestitures, including the privatization of financial sector institutions; (ii) strengthen its regulatory capacity in
the areas of civil aviation, maritime transport, urban transport, electricity and water, telecommunications and
pharmaceuticals; and (iii) assume the debt liabilities of SOEs targeted for privatization.
Implementation of the accelerated privatization program will be governed by the Privatization Law (Lei 47/IV/92 of July
6, 1992, as revised on October 31, 1997 through Lei 41NV/97), which defines the general framework for divestiture and
provides transparent procedures, guidelines and appropriate flexibility to handle operations. This Law requires,inter alia,
the valuation of property by independent private experts, public advertisement of sales, and divestiture through open,



Page 4
competitive bidding. Under the umbrella of the privatization law, the divestiture of each enterprise is authorized by a
specific privatization decree-law, which prescribes the method and procedures for the transaction. The public
announcement of the divestiture constitutes the formal offer for sale and invites bids and investors.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project seeks to address privatization, regulatory and institutional issues. It will help GOCV reduce its direct
presence in productive sectors, including the telecommunications, transport, port, airport, pharmaceutical, manufacturing
and trade sectors, and ensure the private sector's role as that of the engine of growth in the economy. It also aims at
improving the quality of utility services through enhanced competition and the development of effective policy and
regulatory frameworks.
Accelerated Privatization Program
The Government's accelerated privatization program expects to divest a total of 30 small, medium and large enterprises
and financial institutions between 1998 and 2000, of which 24 will be divested during 1998 and 1999. The remaining 6
enterprises in the privatization program, as well as remaining minority shares would be divested in 2000, although
"golden shares" may be retained exceptionally and temporarily in four enterprises, namely CVT (telecommunications
company), ENACOL (oil distribution company), ELECTRA (water and energy company) and TACV (airline company).
By the end of 2000, when the privatization process would have been completed, only the postal service and the airport
authority would remain in the public sector. Even for these SOEs, the postal service and airport authority would be
managed through performance contracts.
The privatization program will be implemented by a special Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) under the Office of the Vice
Prime Minister, using the divestiture techniques previously utilized under the PTAP. For example, Government shares in
joint venture companies will be sold to other shareholders or the public, based on the right of first refusal given to
shareholders by the statutes of these companies. Privatization of small and medium-sized SOEs will be carried out
through public sale and/or management/employee buy-outs. The privatization strategies for large SOEs will be tailored to
each enterprise, and would include private placements coupled with public offering of minority shares, public offering of
majority shares, and/or separation of subsidiary activities from core operations prior to divestiture. For large enterprises,
the Government will seek core strategic investors with controlling interest and sell the remaining shares to, inter alia,
employees, Cape Verdeans living abroad and the general public in order to broaden the share ownership base of these
SOEs. The Cape Verde stock exchange, to become operational in 1998 with support from Sweden and Portugal, might
also be a vehicle for raising capital and privatizing SOEs. It is envisaged that at the end of the privatization process, the
number of stockholders of incorporated companies in Cape Verde will have risen to 3,000-4,000 from about 100 at the
beginning of the privatization process.
The Government will also contract the services of private firms, including investment banks, consulting companies and
legal and auditing firms, to assist the PCU in the design and execution of major privatization transactions. The proposed
Credit will finance these services. These firms would help prepare the information memorandum or prospectus on SOEs,
develop the marketing strategy, advertise the sale for private placement and for public auction, float public offerings on
Cape Verde's stock exchange, select the core buyer, and finally execute the sale after the Government's approval of the
selected buyer. The PCU will pre-qualify private subcontractors, invite and evaluate bids from them, and review
contracts and process the approval of the Government once the subcontractor has selected a private buyer for an SOE.
PE Staff Retrenchment
On the basis of a study on PE employment carried out for a sample of enterprises under the PTAP during 1997, it is
estimated that about 1,000 workers, representing approximately 20 percent of the current PE workforce, would be
declared redundant under the accelerated privatization program. Most of the workers identified as redundant were
unskilled and illiterate employees working in enterprises that will be liquidated (e.g. ARCA VERDE, the inter-island
shipping company) or will undergo restructuring before or after privatization (e.g., EMPA, importer and distributor of



Page 5
food stuffs; ENAPOR, port authority; and TACV, airline company). On the basis of the detailed employee profiles
produced for each enterprise in the study, about a third of the workers will be retrenched through early retirement and
about two-thirds through voluntary departure schemes. Moreover, approximately 80 percent of retrenched workers will
make some use of various retraining and advisory services offered by governmental and non-governmental organizations.
During the period of the PTAP, a significant proportion of workers laid off during privatization of their companies were
reemployed in the private sector, often after short training courses. Out of the 544 workers retrenched during that time,
some 40 percent found work in the newly-privatized enterprises, which were estimated to have generated more than 1,200
new jobs.
This study also included a comprehensive plan to help GOCV implement this labor retrenchment through,inter alia, early
retirement schemes, voluntary departure incentives, redeployment facilities, separation benefits, and recycling and
retraining support to selected redundant staff. The total retrenchment costs were estimated at US$ 10 million. The
GOCV has committed itself to fully finance these costs from the privatization proceeds. GOCV has opened a special
divestiture account at the Central Bank in which privatization receipts are deposited, to allow timely mobilization and
payment of retrenchment funds prior to privatization. The PRCBP Coordinator will have the responsibility of certifying
the severance expenses and end-of-service benefits to retrenched PE employees, prior to payment by the Treasury which
manages the account. The proposed Project will finance the services of labor retrenchment specialists to help GOCV
implement the lay-off plan. It will also facilitate the access of selected, retrenched PE workers to retraining facilities,
including on-the-job training provided within the framework of the IDA-financed Basic Education and Professional
Training Project (Cr. 2675-CV).
PE employees will receive separation benefits as specified in the labor law. This law forbid dismissing workers because
of labor redundancy. Even closure of a company required until recently massive severance pay; a worker with 15 years
service could demand 20 months salary; the months salary could be multiplied by 2 to 5 times for every additional five-
year work period over 15. For instance, a 50 year-old employee who worked 20 years in a PE would be owed 90 months
salary closure. While this excessive law was revised in 1993, all those employed before that date were "grandfathered"
and remained linked to the prior law's generosity.
Regulatory Framework and Capacity Building
In order for privatization to take place, there are numerous regulatory issues that have to be addressed. In the past, the
close relationship between government departments and SOEs meant that policy-making, regulation and operations were
generally embodied into a single institutional process. However, these functions need to be unbundled and clarified under
privatization. The Government plans to: (i) design and implement regulations and competition policies in utilities and
economic sectors, including transport, communication and pharmaceuticals; (ii) strengthen the regulatory and supervisory
bodies in these sectors; and (iii) train regulatory staff and provide outside experts to advise in regulation during the stage
devoted to local capacity building. The Government is committed to the implementation of a time-bound action plan for
regulatory capacity building, which will be developed during the early stage of Project execution. The terms of reference
for advisory services to design ad conduct this plan have been prepared (Annex 8). Key elements to be supported through
this Project are as follows:
(i)  Regulatory Agencies: To better organize the framework of the regulatory function, the GOCV has decided to set up
a multisector regulatory agency for utility (communications, energy and water), and transport sectors (air, maritime
and urban collective transport), and a specific agency to regulate food, drug and consumer product quality control.
The Project will support the establishment and capacity building of these agencies, and regulatory strengthening in
each of the areas discussed below;
(ii) Postal and Telecommunication Regulation. Institutional strengthening and capacity building will be accelerated and
built upon work already undertaken in conjunction with the privatization of the telecommunications company
(CVT) under the PTAP. Activities will focus on the following aspects: (a) review and modernize the postal and
telecommunications legislative and regulatory framework; (b) develop a time-bound action plan to regulate



Page 6
communication through the multisector regulatory agency, and improve this sector's contribution to the agency's
financial sustainability and ability of self-financing through charges levied for its services; (c) develop rules for
effective competition in the telecommunications sector, taking into account CVT's concession contract; (d)
strengthen the capacity of policy and regulatory staff by training; and (e) design and implement a frequency control
and management system;
(iii) Civil Aviation Regulation. Capacity building for civil aviation regulation will include the following activities: (a)
review and modernize the civil aviation legislative framework; (b) develop rules for effective competition in air
transport and continuity of public service obligations in domestic routes; and (c) enforce compliance with ICAO
and IATA regulations. These activities are scheduled for implementation during 1998-1999 to complement
preparation for privatization of the national airline company (TACV);
(iv) Maritime Transport Regulation. This component will address both port and inter-island maritime transport
activities. The port regulatory framework and institutional arrangements will be reviewed and modernized by
measures, including: (a) consideration of different options for concessioning operations, including grouping the
main ports of Praia and Mindelo with the small ports in other islands; (b) development of appropriate price and
quality controls depending upon the chosen options of port operations; (c) developing a scheme for private port
operators to contribute financially to any remaining small ports; (d) review and modernize the legislative and
regulatory framework for port operations; and (e) strengthening of institutional capacity for port operation safety.
Regulation of inter-island maritime transport will include activities aiming at: (i) reviewing tariff and competition
policies and public service obligations in inter-island shipping; (ii) implementing policies which allow the shipping
companies to recover costs and ensure sustainable operations; and (iii) developing appropriate institutional
arrangements to support the sector regulatory framework, and strengthening existing and new agencies' staff
through training. The above activities are scheduled to take place during 1998-1999, to complement the divestiture
of GOCV's inter-island maritime transport company (ARCA VERDE) and the two main ports operated by
ENAPOR;
(v)  Urban Collective Transport Regulation. A well functioning urban collective passenger transport in today's society
requires a well-organized regulatory body. In order to meet this objective and render the sector stronger and more
autonomous, the following activities are foreseen: (a) review and modernize the sector legislative framework; (b)
assess the need for and develop a plan for financial sustainability through charges levied for services provided; (c)
review tariff and competition policies and public service obligations in urban collective transportation; and (d)
implement policy reforms for sector development based on the above review. These activities are scheduled to take
place during 1998-1999 to coincide with the preparatory work for the divestiture of the urban collective transport
passenger company (TRANSCOR);
(vi) Consumer Product Standard and Quality Control.  In its National Development Plan for 1998-2000, the
Government identified the need to create a consumer product standard and quality control authority (CPSQCA) as
an important strategy for improving the quality of goods and products consumed and/or produced in Cape Verde.
Activities in this domain will involve: (a) assessment and definition of the nature of the CPSQCA; (b) review and
modernization of pertinent sectoral legislative and regulatory framework; (c) development of an action plan to
create the CPSQCA as an autonomous and financially sustainable institution to regulate food, drug and consumer
product quality control; and (d) provide technical assistance and train staff. The institutional building activities are
anticipated to be carried out throughout 1999; and
(vii) Pharmaceuticals Regulation. To strengthen this sector the following activities are foreseen: (a) review and
modernize sectoral legislative and regulatory framework for drug import; (b) support the DGP in assuming all
public health control, consumer protection and regulatory functions which are currently performed by the national
pharmaceutical board (EMPROFAC); (c) design and implement a drug registry system to promote the use of
generic products and improve drug control and inspection; and (d) provide technical assistance and train staff.



Page 7
These institutional strengthening activities will be carried out between June 1998 and December 1999, prior to the
privatization of EMPROFAC.
Training and Knowledge Building
Capacity building and training of staff are at the core of GOCV strategy to develop local expertise and ensure the
sustainability of reforms. The Project will include comprehensive training activities on privatization, retrenchment and
regulatory issues, which will be implemented under each component:
(i)  Privatization training will be intended for the Project implementing unit staff, PE managers and Government
officials; about 25 persons will be involved. Training will cover, inter alia, financial and business analysis,
divestiture techniques, private participation in infrastructure and public services, and privatization investment
promotion. It will take the form of short-term courses, seminars, workshops, and exposure to best practices.
Project-financed technical consultants will also provide on-the-job training, as an essential part of their divestiture
assignments. Objectives, actions and monitorable progress indicators for on-the-job transfer of expertise will be set
forth in each technical assistance contract and supervised by the Project implementing unit. The Project will also
finance technical and managerial expertise for the design and introduction of specific processes, methods or
upgrading skills on the job in defined areas of business (e.g., information technology, management information
system, marketing and services development), to enable the PEs under performance contract to achieve their
efficiency targets;
(ii)  Retrenchment training will address about 500 retrenched PE workers to facilitate their redeployment in the private
sector.  The proposed training will consist of demand-driven and work-oriented recycling courses, to be
implemented on the basis of cost-sharing with beneficiaries, within the framework of programs developed under the
IDA-financed Basic Education and Professional Training Project; and
(iii) Regulatory training will aim to develop the expertise of Cape Verdean regulators. The design and implementation
of this training are essential elements of the GOCV's action plan for regulatory capacity building, for which
consultant's terms of reference are presented in the Project file (Annex 8). Training courses will be carried out
after the establishment of new regulatory institutions. These courses will address both broad cross-sectoral issues
(e.g., legal, financial and economic aspects of regulation, options for price regulation, management of concessions,
negotiation analysis, dispute resolution techniques, community relations, etc.) and sector-specific issues (e.g.,
special technical, safety, environmental requirements, international sector-related obligations, etc.). They will
include, inter alia: (a) programs specifically lprepared by consultants for Cape Verde.and existing "off-the-shelf'
courses on regulation; (b) study tours to learn from the experience of regulatory agencies from other countries; (c)
twinning arrangements and/or cooperation agreements with more experienced foreign regulators; and (d)
development of information management techniques through collection and dissemination of information by means
of computer technology, internal seminars, subscription to information sources and regulatory networking (e.g.,
International Forum for Utility Regulation, sponsored by the World Bank). The effectiveness of this training will
be monitored through progress indicators for transfer of expertise and institutional development.
These activities will be implemented on the basis of annual training plans that will be updated periodically. Experts will
report explicitly at given periods on progress on on-the-job training and capacity building efforts. The training plans will
include, inter alia, justifications for training, selection of training institutions, programs and candidates, and budgets and
incentives for professional development, in order to monitor and evaluate the learning process.



Page 8
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for detailed description and Annex 3 for detailed cost   breakdown):
Component               Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-     % of
Contingencies  Total  financing   Bank-
.___________________________  (US$M)            (US$M)   financing
a) Accelerated Privatization      Policy /
Program                       Institutional    4.02       40%      3.70      92%
TA and on-the-job training to help    building
GOCV divest its remaining PE
portfolio over three years, including a
total of 30 small, medium and large
enterprises and financial institutions.
b) Consolidated Regulatory        Policy /
Framework                      Institutional    4.47       45%      4.00      90%
TA and on-the-job training to help    building
GOCV:
. Design and implement regulation
and competition policies in key
sectors, including utilities and
transport, and in consumer product
quality control;
. Develop new regulatory institutional
arrangements and refocus the
capacity of existing institutions to
address specific issues and
constraints in the regulatory field.
a Provide training and outside experts
to advise in regulation during the
stage devoted to local capacity
building.
c) Project Management             Project          1.51       15%      1.30      86%
TA and on-the-job training to the  management
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to
improve the quality and effectiveness
of Project implementation.
Total                                10.00      100%    9.00       90%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project will support GOCV policy of: (a) reducing the size of the State, through privatization; and (b) increasing
private participation in selected utility services and economic sectors, through the development of effective policy and
regulatory frameworks.
3. Benefits and target population:
This capacity building project is expected to enhance economic growth by improving the economic environment,
encouraging private investment and increasing productivity. It would benefit three broad target groups:



Page 9
(i) Government: The Project would help GOCV implement its accelerated privatization program, which is at the core
of its adjustment efforts supported by the companion ERSO. The completion of this program would result in: (a)
alleviated fiscal burden of non-performing PEs on public finances; (b) increased fiscal revenues from privatization
proceeds, and their maximization from transparent and competitive transaction policies; and (c) improved
performance of the few PEs that will remain in the Government portfolio at the end of the Project. These results
would enable GOCV to finance severance packages for PE retrenched workers, to retire domestic debt and to
improve the fiscal balance, including reallocation of public resources to urgent investment in social sectors, and
macroeconomic stability targeted under ERSO.  Increased foreign direct investment from  privatization
opportunities would also help improve the balance of payments.
The introduction of a suitable and consistent regulatory framework will result in sound and competitive market
structures in utilities, coordinated regulation across sectors, fewer and stronger regulatory and supervisory agencies,
better definition of "public service" requirements and financing, and better managed risk exposure for Government.
It will also provide a firm basis for privatization transactions and stimulate private sector interest. The direct
beneficiaries of the technical assistance will include the Office of the Vice Prime Minister, as well as the Ministry
of Tourism, Transportation and Marine Affairs, Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing, Ministry of Industry and
Energy, Ministry of Health, Directorate of Civil Aviation, Maritime Transport Authority, Directorate General of
Communication, Directorate General of Pharmacy, Energy Regulatory Institute, Water Regulatory Institute, and the
ERSO Project Coordinating Unit;
(ii) Business community: The Project will benefit the business community through, inter alia: (a) new investment
opportunities through privatization; (b) lower compliance costs with regulation; and (c) reduced production factor
costs, and cheaper and more efficient utility services, leading to improved competitiveness of the economy; and
(iii) Local population: In the short-run, employment in the PE sector will shrink as a result of retrenchment of excess
staff. However, in the medium-term, the project would lead to a reduction in unemployment through more rapid
growth of PEs' activities under private ownership, and its indirect effect on the creation of more job opportunities in
the private sector. Labor productivity would improve as a result of increased competitiveness of privatized firms.
The local population and, in particular, users of privatized facilities' services would further gain from improved
access, quantity and quality of goods and services, and/or lower costs resulting from improvements in operational
efficiency.



Page 10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Four years, November 1998 - December 2002
Project execution and coordination: The Office of the Vice Prime Minister will assure the overall implementation
responsibility of the Project. The Project will be managed by a special Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) located in that
Ministry, which will coordinate the different components. This PCU will build upon the experience of the Public
Enterprise Sector Restructuring Unit (GARSEE) which implemented the previous PTAP until its closing on December 31,
1997. The PCU would be advised by an Advisory Committee, which would include representatives of the private sector,
Government and regulatory institutions. This Committee will facilitate communications and initiate policy debates and
arm's-length relationships between Government, utility operators, and private sector, including consumer representatives,
particularly on regulatory issues.
The PCU will be staffed with experienced staff and will be specifically in charge of: (a) implementing the divestiture
program; (b) supporting capacity building of regulatory institutions; (c) managing labor issues and retrenchment program;
(d) monitoring Project progress; and (e) supervising the setting up of the financial and accounting organization,
monitoring budget preparation and timely delivery of audits. The PCU will also be responsible for pursuing agreements
with the beneficiaries of technical assistance, notably the PEs and regulatory institutions, on the scope of the proposed
TA, terms of reference, ensuring appropriate internalization by stakeholders and beneficiary participation in the
assignment, identifying consulting services, procuring technical assistance, auditing of contracts, as well as necessary
reporting requirements to GOCV and IDA. The PCU will organize public information campaigns throughout the Project
to improve public understanding and support for the reform program.
Accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: (a) The Project's current financial management system is that
of GARSEE (i.e., the previous PTAP implementing unit), which was found satisfactory throughout PTAP execution. This
system will, however, be strengthened through appropriate budgeting, internal controls and audit improvement. GOCV
will hire a private accounting firm, acceptable to IDA, to carry out this task; (b) GOCV will hire a full-time accountant for
the Project; (c) Project accounts, special accounts and disbursements under statements of expenditures will be audited
annually according to international auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; and (d) annual audit
reports will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements: In view of the cross-sectoral implications of this Project, the GOCV will form
an Advisory Committee to advise the PCU on multi-sectoral policy issues and issues arising in the course of
implementation. Project reporting arrangements will include: (a) periodic progress reports established on the basis of the
Project implementation plan, logical framework and agreed performance indicators; (b) bi-annual supervision missions;
(c) joint Government/Bank annual progress reviews and mid-term review; and (d) completion report to be transmitted by
GOCV to IDA within six months of the closing of the Project. The annual and mid-term reviews will be conducted
jointly between GOCV and IDA on the basis of a report prepared by the PCU, in such a manner as to: (i) assess progress
in the implementation of key actions and performance indicators (see Annex 1); (ii) verify the continued validity of the
design assumptions in light of implementation experience and evolving environment; and (iii) identify remedial actions
that might prove necessary to achieve the Project's objectives.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A number of alternative projects were considered. One option would be to provide IDA assistance through the on-going
policy dialogue with GOCV, within the framework of ERSO adjustment operation. This option was rejected to avoid an
hybrid operation for ERSO. A project-based TA option was then chosen because of the need for: (a) appropriate
institutional framework to implement the GOCV's privatization program; (b) specific resources to finance the preparation
and implementation of divestiture transactions; and (c) specialized skills and TA required to develop regulatory capacity.



Page 11
Within the scope of project-based assistance, consideration was given to a TA project with a single component focusing
on divestiture.  Under this option, regulatory issues would have been addressed through specific privatization
transactions; it is also likely that contract-based regulation would have been the norm. This option was rejected in favor
of a project with two separate components on divestiture and regulation. The reasons for rejecting the single component
TA project were: that regulatory development and privatization transactions are unlikely to be so closely tied together;
contract-based regulation is not the obvious choice for Cape Verde given its undeveloped legal system, and sector-
specific regulatory development may be less desirable than a multi-sectoral approach.
Options on how to provide TA were also examined, whether as: (a) supplement to the PTAP; (b) additional components
of other operations in support of infrastructure development or private sector promotion, including on-going Transport
and Infrstructure Project (Cr. 2466-CV), Private and Financial Sector Development Project (Cr. 2864-CV), and
forthcoming Water and Energy Sector Project; or (c) a separate, stand-alone project. A stand-alone TA operation was
chosen for three reasons:
 The proposed Project, while complementing and supporting other operations, would provide a framework within
which to address the policy and implementation aspects of privatization and private participation in utilities in a
comprehensive and systematic manner. It would bring together, as well as develop further, work of the other
operations in transport and energy, achieve synergy in the many discrete, contract-based regulatory initiatives
undertaken so far, and coordinate assistance so as to mainstream private participation in utilities services across all
sectors and levels of Government.
* For operational reasons, it is advisable to keep each investment lending operation focused and simple. This would
be much easier to do with a separate operation. In addition, project preparation would be quicker and supervision
simpler.
The proposed Project was also designed to support the implementation of the companion ERSO adjustment operation, and
facilitate achievement of PE reforms which are conditions for tranche release. While on-going operations had predefined
criteria for delivering TA, the Project would provide the necessary flexibility to achieve the TA's strategic objectives and
to respond to emerging demands.



Page 12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                   Project       Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Bank-financed                                      IP            DO
. Privatization Technical Assistance  CV-PE-436, Credit        S             S
Project: PE sector reform, divestiture    2377-CV (closed on
and private sector promotion.     December 31, 1997)
. Transport and Infrastructure Project:    CV-PE-435, Credit   S             S
Support to port, airport and      2466-CV (on-going)
infrastructure development.
. Basic Education and Professional   CV-PE-426, Credit         S             S
Training Project                  2675-CV (on-going)
. Capacity Building Project for Private    CV-PE-438, Credit   S             S
Sector Promotion: Support to private    2864-CV (on-going)
and financial sector reform.
. Economic Reform Support Operation:   CV-PE-50956, Credit     S             S
Restoring macroeconomic stability and  3027-CV (on-going)
consolidating private sector
development reforms.
. Water and Energy Sector Project:   In preparation
Support to the sector reform, including
the privatization of ELECTRA.
Other development agencies
. Support to macroeconomic reform,   European Union           NA            NA
food aid management, trade        assistance
liberalization, and EMPA restructuring
. Support to communication sector    Portuguese assistance    NA            NA
reform, and recovery of postal office
operations (CORREIOS)
* Development of local capital market to  Swedish assistance  NA            NA
increase resource mobilization and
supply of medium-term financing
Implementation Progress (IP) / Development Objective (DO) Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U
(Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory), NA (Not Applicable).
The ERSO provides the overall policy framework for macro-economic stabilization and private sector development.
Under this umbrella, the PRCBP will address the policy and implementation aspects of privatization and regulatory



Page 13
reforms in a comprehensive and systematic manner. The PRCBP will help GOCV, inter alia, create a multi-sector
regulatory agency for utilities (water, energy and telecommunications) and transport (air, maritime and urban transport).
It will also complement and support other operations in the following sectors:
(a) Financial Sector: The PRCBP will support the privatization of State-owned commercial banks and insurance
companies, jointly with the on-going Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion (CBPPSP). The
CBPPSP will continue to strengthen the capacity of the Central Bank in financial sector regulation and
supervision;
(b) Maritime Transport Sector: The PRCBP will support the privatization of port and inter-island maritime transport
companies, in close coordination with the Transport and Infrastructure Project (TIP). The regulatory functions for
port and maritime transport will be part of the new multi-sector regulatory agency. The PRCBP will complement
TIP's on-going support to Government in this area; and
(c) Water and Energy Sector: Government will launch the privatization of ELECTRA and monitor all the steps
leading to the selection of its strategic partner under the forthcoming Water and Energy Sector Reform and
Development Project (WESRDP). The WESRDP will also support this sector's regulatory reforms and capacity
building. The regulatory functions will, however, be developed within the framework of the multi-sector
regulatory agency. The retrenchment of ELECTRA's excess staff prior to privatization will also be carried out
under the PRCBP. The PRCBP will further help Government sell its minority shareholding in the company, after
the strategic partner is selected.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The design of this Project draws on the lessons learned from experience in the delivery of TA and in support of
privatization to many countries, including Cape Verde. These lessons include:
 Need to develop efficient policy and regulation of public utility sectors prior to privatization: This lesson has been
incorporated in the design of the proposed Project from the outset. (section B.3)
- Need to ensure availability of resources to address the financial and social cost of reform, in order to enhance the
effectiveness of TA project: Resources generated from privatization proceeds (and monitored under ERSO) would
help GOCV address the financial burden resulting from SOE employee retrenchment costs and from having to
assume the financial liabilities of privatized enterprises. (section B.3)
* Need for a strong privatization implementing agency, with skilled staff and empowered with appropriate authority
to carry out the reform: This lesson has been taken into account by placing project execution in a PCU that already
exists, is operational, has a good track record of designing and managing projects of this kind (e.g., PTAP and
ERSO), and is fully supported by the highest authorities. (section C.4)
* Importance of Project performance indicators to monitor implementation and measure outcome: This lesson has
been applied at the outset. Monitorable, quantifiable and time-bound benchmarks have been designed to measure
progress in project execution. (annex 1)
. Need to ensure adequate coordination among beneficiary entities: The establishment of a high level Project
Advisory Committee to advise the PCU structure takes this lesson into account. (section C.4)
4. Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership:
The GOCV has repeatedly pressed for continued Bank support to complete its privatization program following the closing
of the previous PTAP in December 1997. The Project would build upon the success of this PTAP and would provide for
continuity in the reform program. GOCV has publicly and officially committed itself to these reforms, which are
embodied in its Letter of Sector Development Policy adopted within the framework of ERSO in November 1997. The



Page 14
details of this program are outlined in the President's Report on the ERSO. The proposed privatization program was part
of GOCV's efforts to improve the competitiveness of the economy and make the private sector the main engine of
growth. It was included in the National Development Plan for 1997-2000 adopted by Parliament in 1997. The program
was also discussed with other stakeholders, including civil society, private sector and PE employees, and publicized at
home and abroad with a view to attract private investors. The GOCV has requested TA under the Project to help
implement PE reforms and privatization which are at the core of its ERSO adjustment and macroeconomic stabilization
objectives. GOCV has established the PCU, appointed its Director and hired its essential staff to enable a prompt Project
implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is seen by the local actors, donor community and private sector as having credibility in the field of
privatization, legal and regulatory issues, competition policy and utility sector reforms. The Bank has successfully
supported GOCV's previous efforts in these areas through its policy dialogue and various TA projects. Its participation in
the accelerated privatization program would enhance the credibility of GOCV's efforts, particularly regarding the
transparency of the divestiture process and soundness of its regulatory framework. The Bank could also help GOCV
design a competitive regulatory framework that maximizes the social benefits of private participation in PEs, while
minimizing the risk exposure assumed by Government through guaranteed and other financial obligations to private
investors. Bank support will further provide resources to GOCV to implement key policy reforms under its on-going
ERSO adjustment operation, which is essential to the country's macroeconomic stability and sustainable development. In
undertaking this type of Project, the Bank provides an umbrella under which GOCV could pull resources from other
bilateral and multilateral sources to support the development of its PE and utility sectors.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
The proposed operation is a technical assistance project which aims at building capacity for privatization and regulation.
Its direct benefits will be intangible and, therefore, a full economic analysis, including cost and benefit quantification, is
not warranted.
Project's economic benefits:
* Productivity gains;
* Increased output resulting from additional capital investment by privatized firms;
* Additional income from the net creation ofjobs in the private sector;
* Factor cost savings from the reduction of average production costs of selected utility and transport companies; and
* Consumer surplus from lower tariffs, improved access and quality of utility and transport services provided.
Comments:
The above items are indirect benefits expected from the project implementation. They would contribute to its outcome
and long-term development impact.
Measurement of economic costs:
 IDA credit amounting US$ 9 million; and
 GOCV contribution:
* Direct costs equivalent to US$ I million for Project counterpart funds;
* Indirect costs estimated at US$ 10 million for labor retrenchment funding; and
* Indirect costs estimated at US$ 38 million for PEs' debts and other liabilities assumed by Government prior to
divestiture.
Measurement of fiscal impact:
* Decreased outlays for infrastructure and utility projects, and economies on capital investment cost;
* Positive fiscal impact from reduced subsidies and other (indirect) transfers to loss-making enterprises;



Page 15
* Gains in corporate and other taxes; and
 Increased Government revenues from privatization proceeds. Gross privatization receipts are estimated at US$
150 million over the next three years. They would generate at least US$ 80 million of net fiscal revenues.
Comments:
Since the privatization process is a market driven process, it is not possible to have a sound estimate of its fiscal
impact prior to settlement of transactions (in the absence of a stock market). However, conservative estimates suggest
that this impact would be substantial. For instance, the Project, together with ERSO, would help generate over US$ 80
million of net privatization proceeds over three years, representing about 35 percent of Government revenues in 1997.
It would also help GOCV achieve its long-term fiscal balance and macroeconomic stability objectives under the
ERSO.
2. Technical:
The Project is technically sound. It is fully consistent with the CAS agenda of achieving a viable and stable
macroeconomic framework and consolidating policy reforms in support of private sector development. Its design took
into account lessons learned from previous operations in Cape Verde and elsewhere. Its estimated economic benefits are
high, and its development impact, together with ERSO's, are significant.
The Project's three components are well focused and mutually reinforcing. In the privatization component, the activities
supported by the Project have been defined in detail, since they can be tied to specific transactions. For the regulatory
framework component, the Project is designed as a "wholesaling" operation in which specific activities to be funded have
not been comprehensively defined in advance, except the initial work program. For instance, physical strengthening of
regulatory agencies would be carried out only after agreement has been reached on the nature, scope and mandate of the
multisector regulatory institutions. The Project would first finance technical assistance to help GOCV design and
establish these institutions, and facilitate reaching agreement among stakeholders on cross-sectoral issues at the beginning
of implementation. This approach was necessary to provide flexibility in execution and further respond to specific
demands as the overall regulatory strategy is defined.
3. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The Office of the Vice Prime Minister is responsible for implementing the Project. The Project
will be executed by a specific project coordinating unit (PCU) located in that Ministry. The administrative and operating
capacity of this Unit was reviewed and strengthened during project preparation, through PPF-financed technical experts in
project planning and financial management, utility privatization and regulatory capacity building, and environmental
assessment. The Project will provide further technical assistance to the PCU in order to ensure effective and timely
project implementation. As mentioned in Section B.3. above, the PCU will contract out the bulk of preparation and
implementation of major divestiture transactioins. Regulatory reforms would, however, be implemented by the respective
regulatory agencies, in close coordination with tlhe PCU, and with consultant support. The PCU will be advised by a high
level Advisory Committee comprising representatives of the private sector, Government and utility regulators.
b. Project management: The PCU will include some of the experienced and qualified staff who implemented the previous
Privatization TA Project in close cooperation with the Bank, and are familiar with Bank procedures. This team will be
further reinforced, as necessary, with consultants to tackle administrative, procurement and technical issues. A private
accounting firm will be hired to design administrative and accounting procedures, computerize operations, produce an
operation manual and train the Project accountant.
4. Social:
The privatization program is likely to lead to the retrenchment of about 1000 PE workers. Their severance payments,
estimated at US$ 10 million, will be funded from the privatization proceeds. Activities to design schemes for orderly
divestiture, management of labor liabilities, training and worker ownership schemes are included in the Project.



Page 16
5. Environmental assessment:      Environmental Category      []A   [X] B   [I C
The divestiture process will involve some PEs that might be the source of pollution flow and other environmental
problems related to on-going and future practice (e.g., PEs operating in shipyard, refrigeration, food storage facilities,
pharmaceuticals and maritime sectors, respectively). The project will help build capacity for sustainable privatization, by
helping create an appropriate environmental framework to mitigate any negative impact that may result from these
reforms. It would include: (a) activities to design and put in place systems to integrate environmental and economic
policies in utility regulation; (b) standard procedures to include environmental components in public bidding components;
(c) preparation of TORs for environmental evaluations of new concessions and environmental audits for existing facilities
to be divested, that are identified to have significant environmental impact by the Cape Verde's National Council on the
Environment; and (d) relevant sensitization of PCU staff to environmental issues and training for the staff of
environmental agencies.
The GOCV has committed itself to carry out an environmental assessment during project preparation, including
environmental audits to analyze existing conditions at and around specific sites of selected PEs. Compliance audits will
help measure environmental conditions against existing national and international standards to determine the need for
remedial actions necessary to bring the concerned PEs into compliance within the privatization framework. Liability
audits will measure environmental conditions against the risk of being held responsible for damages. Moreover, the
Project will help strengthen the capacity of the National Council on the Environment to monitor the issues of
responsibilities for known or contingent environmental damages, and pre-existing environmental problems of PEs
targeted for divestiture. Draft terms of reference to undertake these audits are included in the Project file (Annex 8).



Page 17
6. Participatory approach: (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced):
Participatory Approach             Preparation  Implementation  Operation
Private sector: The private sector was consulted during IS/CON  IS/COL      IS
the Project design. Its views will be further solicited on
the proposed activities throughout implementation. Its
representative will participate in the Advisory Committee
advising the PCU.
Government representatives: Line ministries of PEs and CON/COL   CON/COL    CON/COL
regulatory agencies were involved at the outset and will
be closely consulted throughout the project to ensure
effective internalization.
Other donors: Donors supporting the PE reform and/or IS/CON  CON/COL        COL
adjustment program will be consulted during preparation
and supervision missions (e.g., EU, Portugal, AfDB).
Note: IS=Information sharing; CON = consultation; and COL = collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Project is expected to have a lasting impact on Cape Verde's business environment and the PE sector recovery. It
will help GOCV improve the competitiveness of the economy by supporting both the implementation of a comprehensive
privatization program, including that of major utilities, and the development of competitive market structures through
upgraded regulatory systems. By the end of the Project, the PE sector would be reduced to a few enterprises with State
majority shareholding (e.g., postal office, airport authority and the small ports), in addition to a couple of core,"strategic"
companies, privately owned, in which GOCV will keep a limited number of shares as part of golden share provisions
(e.g., telecommunications, airline, insurance, electricity and water companies). Utilities would be largely liberalized with
several operators participating in all segments of the market, under competitive entry and exit conditions. These
accomplishments are likely to be sustainable.



Page 18
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Project outputs to development objectives
Risk             Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Reduced GOCV's              Moderate  Privatization success under the previous PTAP is a
commitment to its                       testament to GOCV's commitment to this reform.
privatization agenda.                   GOCV has reiterated its resolution under the ERSO,
and the conditionalities of this adjustment program are
specifically tied to progress in the privatization area.
Close Bank supervision will be carried out to make sure
that the objectives set out are maintained throughout
implementation.
Reduced GOCV's              Moderate   Continued policy dialogue at the macro and sectoral
commitment to implement the             levels would mitigate these risks.  Moreover, the
regulatory framework in a               Project will be implemented with close participation of
manner to promote                       beneficiaries, notably regulatory agencies, to ensure
competition and efficiency,             ownership and efficient execution of reforms.
including the risk of
backtracking on tariffs policy
for public utilities.
Implementation of            Moderate   Satisfactory implementation of GOCV's economic
privatization agenda may fail           reform  program  would greatly enhance the private
to achieve response in private          sector's response to the privatization program. The
sector, because of                      Bank's lending program has also strong emphasis on
deteriorated investors'                 improving the business environment and provides
perception of the sovereign             opportunities, particularly through the Private Sector
and political risk, and the             Capacity Building Project, for continued discussions on
enabling environment for                this issue. GOCV will carry out extensive information
private participation.                  campaigns to promote the privatization investment
opportunities at home and abroad. To date, the first
phase of the privatization program has attracted
substantial interest from investors in both Cape Verde
and other countries targeted for transactions, and it is
expected that specific promotion campaigns will
continue to sustain interest even when the volume and
size of transactions increase.



Page 19
Project components to outputs
Risk             Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Lack of implementation      Moderate   The appointment of an Advisory Committee with senior
progress due to interference            officials from GOCV, regulatory agencies and private
from political and vested               sector would provide strategic guidance to the PCU,
interests, particularly in              improve  communication, and  minimize  overlaps
regulatory areas.                       between regulatory agencies. The project design in the
regulatory area, with its emphasis on step-by-step
progress, should also promote a broad and public
discussion of the issues, and thus contribute to
mitigating the pressures from various interests.
Speed of execution of       Moderate   GOCV has agreed to improve up-front privatization
divestiture transactions and            procedures, including contracting out most of the
regulatory reforms could be             preparatory work for large operations (e.g., utilities).
reduced by inefficient                  GOCV appointed the core team which implemented the
institutional framework and             previous PTAP  into this project, preserving and
weak capacity.                          building upon the management expertise created within
GARSEE. The divestiture manual utilized under the
Implementation of the                   PTAP will be updated during project preparation to
privatization program may be            further guide the privatization process, drawing lessons
slower than expected due to             of experience from the PTAP. Qualified consultants
PCU understaffing,                      will be hired to reinforce the capacity to implement the
particularly if the individuals         proposed reforms.
who carried out the previous
PTAP appeared to be no
longer available for the
proposed project.
Overall Risk Rating        Moderate
Risk Rating: H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
Political Risk Assessment: (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
A political risk analysis of the accelerated privatization program was carried out to determine if Cape Verde met the
conditions of readiness for successful privatization. GOCV commitment to this reform was analyzed based on three
criteria: (a) political desirability of reform - whether the political benefits outweigh the political costs of privatization to
GOCV and its supporters; (b) political feasibility - whether GOCV could secure support from key stakeholders whose
cooperation is essential to success, including parliament, unions, PE employees and the civil society; and (c) credibility of
reform - whether GOCV could sustain its reform program, make credible promises to investors and prevent policy
reversals. The conclusion of this analysis was that Cape Verde met both political desirability and feasibility tests.
However, credibility remained uncertain and needed close monitoring.



Page 20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Two possible sources of controversy have been identified as well as their mitigation effects. First, the privatization
program would lead to important PE employee retrenchment, which could create social unrest in the short-run. The
impact of this retrenchment is, however, expected to be small in the light of the process described in Section B.3. above,
notably full financing of end-of-service benefits from privatization proceeds and redeployment support for some
retrenched workers. Second, controversy may also stem from pressures exerted on GOCV by vested interests or people
ill-informed about the expected benefits from the reform program. To address these issues, the Project will be
implemented in a participatory manner; it will carry out a communication campaign to improve public understanding,
build consensus, and secure public support to the reforms; and enforcement of the privatization legislation would provide
appropriate transparency to the process. The communication campaign will also publicize the notable feature of the Cape
Verdean divestiture experience, that it has so far created twice as many jobs as were lost during the process.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Negotiation conditions:
* Appoint the Project Coordinator and establish a PCU, with a mandate satisfactory to IDA, attached to the Office
of the Vice Prime Minister;
* Appoint the Project Advisory Committee, with a mandate satisfactory to IDA;
* Appoint a Project Accountant;
* Finalize the draft Letter of Sector Development Policy, satisfactory to IDA; and
* Finalize the draft Project Implementation Plan.
2. Board conditions:
i Adoption by GOCV of the Project Implementation Plan;
a Receipt by IDA of final Letter of Sector Development Policy; and
* Deposit by GOCV of the first tranche of counterpart funds, equivalent to US$50,000, in the Project Account.
3. Effectiveness conditions:
* Establishment of a computerized accounting and financial management system, satisfactory to IDA;
e Appointment of an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; and
S Standard legal conditions of effectiveness.
4. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements]:
* Dated covenants of project implementation [...].
H. Readiness for Implementation
[X] GOCV has prepared the procurement documents for the first year's activities prior to negotiations, in view of a
prompt start of project implementation.
[XI GOCV has prepared the Project Implementation Plan and will adopted it as a Board condition.
[ The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions: (NA)



Page 21
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader/Task Manageriean-Michel N. Happi
Sector Manager/Director: Thomas W. Allen
Acting Country Manager/Director: Nicholas R. Burnett  



Page 22
Annex 1
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary,                Key Performance Indicators  1              Monitoring &    Critical Assumptions and Risks
______________________          __________________________________                Superv0  i;  X igoni00 a0E00;t2sion
CAS-related Objective:                                                                           (Goal to Bank Mission)
................................................................  ...................................................................................................... ...................................  .............................................
To promote a private sector    GDP growth rate: 4 percent per annum during   National            Achievement of broad based
led development based on       1998-2000, the years of the fiscal adjustment   statistics        growth as a result of existing
dynamic integration of Cape                                                                      programs under the CAS.
Verde into regional and        Increase of private investment from 7.8
world economy.                 percent of GDP in 1998 to 12 percent in 2002
Project Development                                                                              (Objective to Goal)
Objectives:
To support GOCV efforts to    1. Reduced size of the State in productive        Privatization    Critical assumptions include the
alleviate poverty through the   sectors, as measured by: (a) divestment of the   progress        stabilization of the macro-
achievement of a higher,       PE portfolio from 30 enterprises in 1997 to      reports, by      economic framework in the near
private sector-based           less than five by end 2001; and (b) value of     PCU              term, and continued GOCV's
economic growth.               PE assets to be divested, estimated at US$ 291                    commitment to adjustment reform
million in 1996 (excluding banks).              Bank progress  agenda. The risk that GOCV
The Project will aim at                                                         reports on       relaxes or delays these efforts will
making the PE sector leaner   2. Increased private sector participation in      supervision,    be monitored within the policy
and more efficient, and        utility and transport sectors, as measured by:    mid-term and   dialogue framework under the
extending the scope of         (a) award of at least one concession for value-   completion      CAS and ERSO.
private sector activity.       added services in telecoms to new operators;    missions
(b) introduction of a strategic partner in                       It is also assumed that competitive
ELECTRA and TACV; (c) concession of             PCU report on   cost structures would be achieved
ENAPOR; and (d) divestiture of                  post-            for production factors of
TRANSCOR.                                       divestiture      privatized public service and
performance    utility companies.
3. Utilities' indicators of improved access and
quality of services provided. (See Annex 8:
Addendum to Project Design Summary:
Utilities' Key Performance Indicators)
Project Outputs:           .                                                                     (Outputs to Objective)
................................................................     ...................................................................................................... ................................... .............................................
I. Remaining PEs have been   . Divestiture contracts are signed for 28 PEs,   Privatization    GOCV remains committed to its
divested or managed under        and performance contracts for two PEs,         progress         privatization agenda.
performance contracts:           according to the Implementation Timetable   report
included in Annex 2 (paras. 5-8).              prepared by      There is no significant lag in
Privatization of 28 PEs has                                                   the PCU          private sector response to
been carried out, and        * Increased fiscal revenues, as measured by:                      privatization opportunities. Such
performance contracts          (a) elimination of State subsidies to loss-    Supervision      lag could stem from the overall
signed with two PEs;           making PEs, following the divestiture of       mission          country risk assessment and
Arca Verde, EMPA and Cabmar/Cabnave;    reports                 perception of the sovereign and
and (b) transfer of at least US$ 80 million of                  political risk by private investors.
privatization proceeds to the Treasury, net    GOCV budget
of end-of-service benefits, PEs' liabilities  report            It is also assumed that divestiture
and divestiture transaction costs.                            Iprograms would be implemented
Baseline and targeted values should be shown, with the latter divided into values expected at mid-term, end of project and full impact.



Page 23
Narrative Summary                  Key Performance Indicators               Monitoring       Critical Assumptions and Risks
and
Supervision
...... .....................................................     .....................................................................................................    ...................................  ........................    ....................
. Retrenchment plans have      * About 1000 PE employees have been                              under transparent market
been implemented; and          retrenched and their end-of service benefits                   conditions, and that private
have been paid, totaling US$ 10 million.                       investors would be interested in
State-owned assets.
* communication campaigns   * At least 15 multi-media communication
have been organized on         actions are carried out through various        Public
privatization programs         channels from 1998 to 2000, to publicize the  opinion polls
-program and privatization opportunities
(e.g., creation of a CV Privatization Home
Page in internet servers, e.g., IPAnet
Privatization Link sponsored by World
Bank/MIGA).
2. Regulatory frameworks       * Enactment of new sector legislation for: (a)   Publication in   GOCV remains committed to
have been strengthened and       multi-industry regulatory institutions; (b)   Official         implement the regulatory
bottlenecks to private sector    telecommunications, allowing effective        Gazette of       framework in a manner to
competitiveness reduced:         competition in value- added services; (c) air   legislation    promote competition and
transport, complying with ICAO                governing       - efficiency.
. Sector regulations have        regulations; (d) maritime transport,          regulatory
been upgraded;                 introducing competitive policies and cost      issues.          GOCV maintains efficient entry
recovery tariffs; and (e) urban transport,                     and exit conditions into utility
. Institutional arrangements     establishing licensing or route concession    Annual           services markets, and does not
have been established to       systems which foster competition and allow    reports of        backtrack on tariff policy.
regulate private provision     profitability of operations.                   regulatory
of services in telecoms; air,                                                 agencies         Regulatory agencies are
maritime and urban           * Staff training programs are fully                               adequately staffed and funded,
transport; and                 implemented: (a) in-country workshop on        Project          and able to work without
pharmaceuticals.               public utilities has been organized by June    progress         interference from political and
1999; and (b) at least 25 persons have        reports.         vested interests.
received training in regulation issues.
Risks: Delays in enactment of
* Regulatory functions are adequately                            new legislation
provided during the interim phase devoted
to capacity building, throughout the Project.
* At least one "twinning" arrangement has
been concluded between a Cape Verdean
regulatory agency and a more experienced
foreign regulator, by June 1999.
Cape Verde has become a member of at least
one "network" of regulators (e.g.,
International Forum for Utility Regulation
sponsored by the World Bank).
.... ........... ...............................................   ......................................................................................................  ....................... ...........    .........   ............   .........
3. Privatization transactions    * Sound divestiture action plan is developecd    Letter of     The PCU is adequately staffed
have been efficiently            and adopted, by June 1998.                    sector           and fully operational.
undertaken and project         . Transparency of privatization transactions is  development
management effectively           maintained;                                   policy.
carried out.                   . Timely reporting on work program and
auditing of accounts;                         PCU and
. Procurement process is efficient, timely and   supervision
competitive throughout the Project.           mission
reports



Page 24
Narrative Summary                   Key Performance Indicators               Monitoring       CritiaAssumptions and Risks
Project Components:                                                                               (Components to Outputs)
1. TA and on-the-job training   . Inputs: US$ 4.02 million                      Supervision      Technical ministries do not hinder
for accelerated privatization                                                   mission           the divestiture process.
program to:                                                                      reports
. strengthen the institutional                                                                    Resources to address the social
capacity to design and                                                         PCU progress   costs of privatization are made
implement the program                                                          reports (bi-     available (from privatization
. design and implement                                                          annual)           proceeds), in particular funding
divestiture transactions for                                                                    for retrenchment programs.
28 PEs (e.g., accounting,                                                      TORs of
valuation, legal,                                                              consultants
advertisement, and                                                             and requests
investment banking                                                             for no-
services);                                                                     objection and
. design performance                                                             disbursement.
contract for two PEs;
. implement the PE staff
retrenchment plan;
. design and implement the
communication campaigns
...... ......................................................     ......................................................................................................  ...................................    ...........................................
2. TA and on-the-job training   . Inputs: US$ 4.47 million.                      Draft laws       Regulators are empowered and
to consolidate the regulatory                                                    and              equipped to exercise their
framework in utilities and                                                      regulations.      functions.
economic sectors, including:
. telecommunications,                                                           Draft decrees   Political and vested interests do
. civil aviation,                                                               to establish      not obstruct the regulatory reform
. maritime transport,                                                           regulatory        process.
. urban transport,                                                              bodies and
. pharmaceuticals,                                                               appoint
. consumer product quality                                                      regulators.
control and standard
TA will further help:
. prepare the legislation to
regulate private
participation in these
sectors.
. establish the multisector
regulatory agencies and
strengthen their
capabilities.
. provide training and help
regulate during interim
period devoted to capacity
building, including through
twinning arrangements
with foreign regulators.
. provide working tools and
equipment support to
regulatory agencies.



Page 25
Narrative Sumnmary                  Key Performance Indicators                Monitoring        Critical Assumptions and Risks
and
Supervision
....~~                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~ ......................... .. ........I.......  ......................................... .................
3. TA to strengthen the ..         nts: US$ .I 51   illion                        Progress         Timely provision of counterpart
Project Coordination Unit:                                                       report            funding.
. project management skills                                                      (periodic)
(e.g., accounting, auditing,                                                                     Appropriate consulting services
procurement)                                                                    Disbursement   are identified and contracted to
. technical expertise (e.g.,                                                      reports          meet all the above TA.
privatization, regulation),                                                     (quarterly)
. training, and                                                                                    The PCU is staffed in a
. equipment                                                                                        satisfactory fashion, and the
individuals who carried out the
previous PTAP are available for
the proposed project, to build
upon the implementation and
management experience created
within GARSEE.



Page 26
Annex 2
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
Project Description
Overview
1.    The Project's development objective is to support GOCV efforts to alleviate poverty through increased reliance
on private sector-based economic growth. It will support GOCV's policy of: (a) reducing the size of the State in
productive sectors, through an accelerated privatization process; and (b) increasing private participation in utilities and
economic sectors, including communication, transport and pharmaceuticals, through the development of effective policy
and regulatory frameworks. It will help GOCV complete its PE reform and privatization program, initiated under the
previous IDA-financed Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PTAP, Credit 2377-CV) that closed in December
1997. To achieve these objectives, the Project will include two main components on privatization and regulatory capacity
building, and a separate component for project coordination.
Project Component 1 - Accelerated Privatization Program: US$ 4.02 million.
2.     This component will help design and implement: (i) the accelerated privatization program; (ii) retrenchment plans
for PE staff; and (iii) communication campaigns. More specifically, the component will finance consultant services, both
local and international, studies, training, goods and equipment to support the design and implementation of these
activities.
A.    Support to the Accelerated Privatization Program.
3.     Activities to be financed under this sub-component would be related to: (i) preparation of divestiture operations'
including hiring of short-term consultants for legal, accounting, auditing, valuation, marketing, financial, investment
banking and other professional services; (ii) design and monitoring of performance contracts for airport management and
postal services companies, including consultants specialized in business analysis and corporate restructuring to develop
operational and financial performance targets; and (iii) training of Project staff and relevant Government officials in
privatization and private participation in infrastructure.
4.     The accelerated privatization program expects to divest a total of 30 small, medium and large enterprises and
financial institutions beLween 1998 and 2000, including some enterprises whose privatization programs began under the
PTAP. In 1996, the combined gross assets of these PEs (excluding the commercial banks) totaled CVE 29.18 billion (US$
291 million); they employed over 5300 people and their value added represented about 10 percent of GDP. The bulk of
the privatization transactions will be carried out in 1998 and 1999, and the final tranches of State shares in larger
companies, such as TACV, BCA, ELECTRA and ENACOL will be sold by the end of 2000. At that point. all the State
shares in the 30 enterprises and financial institutions will have been disposed off, except for"goldeni shares" which will
be retained in a small number of enterprises in which the Government retains a strategic or public service interest.
Imiplementation Timetable.
5.     The privatization timetable for 1998-2000 was agreed with GOCV under the ERSO adjustmelnt program.
Accordingly, in 1998, GOCV will undertake 22 divestiture actions as follows:
(a) completion of the sale of the State's shares in: MOAVE (39 percent. flour mill company). FAMA (14.1 percent.
pasta processing company), SONACOR (100 percent, automobile servicing and imiport company). ANV (100
percent, travel agencies in Praia and Mindelo), CVC (23.3 percent. civil works compan1y). and CERIS (30
percent, brewing and soft drinks manufacturer). Preparatory work to launlchl these transactionls was completed



Page 27
under the previous PTAP, including valuation, advertisement of sales and public announcement of their
divestiture;
(b) finalization of the divestiture of: INTERBETAO (construction material assets) through sale of assets, INERF
(civil works and hydraulic institute) through corporatization and sale of 100 percent of shares, and OFICINAS
(equipment and vehicle repair facilities) through sale of assets;
(c) sale of at least 51 percent of shares in: GARANTIA (insurance company), CECV (commercial bank), and
ELECTRA (power and water company);
(d) sale of the State's minority shareholdings in: CVT (telecommunications company, 24 percent), and ENACOL (25
percent, oil distribution company). This will further reduce GOCV's minority shareholding in these companies to
15 percent and 10 percent, respectively;
(e) divestiture of: CABMARICABNAVE (shipyard asset and management companies) through direct sale,
concession or leasing; TRANSCOR (urban passenger transport company) through municipalization;
INTERBASE (refrigeration and cold storage plant) through sale or leasing; the ports of Praia and Mindelo from
ENAPOR (port management and operation company) through concession; and ARCA VERDE (inter-island
maritime transportation company) through liquidation; and
(f) design and implementation of performance contracts with CORREIOS (postal services company) and ASA
(airport management company), and restructuring of EMPA (food import and distribution company) so as to
separate its food security and commercial activities.
6.    In 1999, the Government will privatize the following enterprises through public share offerings: EMPROFAC (99
percent, pharmaceutical imports and distribution company); TACV (at least 50 percent, airline company); BCA (at least
50 percent, commercial bank); CECV (at least 24 percent); and EMPA (at least 51 percent of the shares of EMPA's
commercial activities, and sale of its subsidiary activities in Cape Verde and real estate in Paraguay);
7.    Finally, in 2000, the Government will complete its privatization program by divesting all public shares, with the
exception of a very limited number of shares to be held as "golden share" provisions in a few "strategic" and public
service companies. The following companies are scheduled to complete their privatization in 2000: BCA (about 25
percent, commercial bank); GARANTIA (49 percent); PROMOTORA (100 percent, venture capital company); TACV
(about 25 percent); ENACOL (9 percent); CVT (about 14 percent); ELECTRA (about 19 percent).
8.    By the end of 2000, when the privatization process would have been completed, only the postal service, the
airport authority and possibly the small ports would remain in the public sector. For these SOEs, the postal service and
airport authority would be managed through performance contracts, while the small ports would probably be run by their
respective municipalities. GOCV will also maintain golden shares in GARANTIA, TACV, CVT, ENACOL, ELECTRA
and BCA.
Implementation Arrangements:
9.    Implementation of the accelerated privatization program will be governed by the Privatization Law (Lei 47/IV/92
of July 6, 1992, as revised on October 31, 1997 through Lei 41NV/97), which defines the general framework for
divestiture and provides transparent procedures, guidelines and appropriate flexibility to handle operations. This Law
requires, inter alia, the valuation of property by independent private experts, public advertisement of sales, and divestiture
through open, competitive bidding. Under the umbrella of the privatization law, the divestiture of each enterprise is
authorized by a specific privatization decree-law, which prescribes the method and procedures for the transaction. The
public announcement of the divestiture constitutes the formal offer for sale and invites bids and investors



Page 28
10.   The PCIJ will implement this program, using the divestiture techniques previously utilized under the PTAP. For
example, Government shares in joint venture companies will be sold to other shareholders or the public, based on the
right of first refusal given to shareholders by the statutes of these companies; privatization of small and medium-sized
SOEs will be carried out through public sale and/or management/employee buy-outs. The privatization strategies for
large SOEs will be tailored to each enterprise, and would include private placements coupled with public offering of
minority shares, public offering of majority shares, and/or separation of subsidiary activities from core operations prior to
divestiture. For large enterprises,' the Government will seek core strategic investors with controlling interest and sell the
remaining shares to, inter alia, employees, immigrants and the general public in order to broaden the share ownership
base of these SOEs. The Cape Verde stock exchange, to become operational in 1998 with support from Sweden and
Portugal, might also be a vehicle for raising capital and privatizing SOEs.
11.   The Government will also contract the services of private firms, including  investment banks, consulting
companies and legal and auditing firms, to assist PCU in the design and execution of major privatization transactions.
The proposed Credit will finance these services. These firms would help prepare the information memorandum or
prospectus on SOEs, develop the marketing strategy, advertise the sale for private placement and for public auction, float
public offerings on Cape Verde's stock exchange, select the core buyer, and finally execute the sale after the
Government's approval of the selected buyer. PCU will pre-qualify private subcontractors, invite and evaluate bids from
them, and review contracts and process the approval of the Government once the subcontractor has selected a private
buyer for an SOE.
B.    PE Staff Retrenchment Plan
12.   The Project will support: (i) a labor retrenchment specialist attached to the PCU, in charge of managing the labor
issues and redeployment program; and (ii) consultants' services and training equipment to help design and implement the
retraining and recycling of about 500 redundant PE employees.
13.   On the basis of a study on PE employment carried out for a sample of enterprises under the PTAP during 1997, it
is estimated that about 1,000 workers, representing approximately 20 percent of the current PE workforce, would be
declared redundant under the accelerated privatization program. Most of the workers identified as redundant were
unskilled and poorly educated employees working in enterprises that will be liquidated (e.g. ARCA VERDE) or will
undergo restructuring before privatization (e.g., EMPA, ENAPOR). On the basis of the detailed employee profiles
produced for each enterprise in the study, about a third of the workers will be retrenched through early retirement and
about two-thirds through voluntary departure schemes. Moreover, approximately 80 percent of retrenched workers are
expected to make some use of various retraining and advisory services offered by governmental and non-governmental
organizations. During the period of the PTAP, a significant proportion of workers laid off during privatization of their
companies were reemployed in the private sector, often after short training courses. Out of the 544 workers retrenched
during that time, some 40 percent found work in the newly-privatized enterprises, which are estimated to have generated
more than 1,200 new jobs.
14.   With the objective of mitigating any potential labor problems under the accelerated privatization program, the
study also included a comprehensive plan to help GOCV implement this labor retrenchment through, inter alia, early
retirement schemes, voluntary departure incentives, redeployment facilities, separation benefits, and recycling and
retraining support to selected redundant staff. The total retrenchment costs were estimated at US$ 10 million. The
GOCV has committed itself to finance these costs fully from the privatization proceeds. GOCV has opened a special
divestiture account at the Central Bank in which privatization receipts are deposited, to allow timely mobilization and
payment of retrenchment funds prior to privatization. The PRCBP Coordinator will have the responsibility to certify the
payment of severance and end-of-service benefits under this account managed by the Treasury.



Page 29
C.    Communication Campaigns
15.    The Project will finance the services of specialized communication consultants to design and implement the
communication campaigns, including dissemination of privatization investment opportunities. It will also contract out
independent consultants to carry out qualitative and quantitative research on public opinion, including communication
impact assessment, in order to improve the effectiveness of these campaigns.
16.    GOCV has begun to disseminate its accelerated privatization program to the public, domestically and abroad,
through an information campaign (e.g., television, newspapers, gazette), within the framework of ERSO. This component
will support the Project's communication program to further: (i) inform potential investors on privatization opportunities,
including Cap Verdean emigrants who were active investors during the first privatization phase; (ii) improve public
understanding, build consensus, and secure public support to the reforms; (iii) ensure transparency of the program
through wide dissemination of privatization procedures, disclosure of transaction results, and general information on
program process and outcome; and (iv) comply with the privatization legislation which requires, inter alia, public
advertisement of sales and transparent reporting.
Project Component 2 - Consolidated Regulatory Framework: US$ 4.47 million.
17.    Privatization of public service and utility companies requires revision and upgrading of their regulatory
framework to create a level playing field in these sectors and make them more attractive to private participation. The
current framework lacks clarity about a wide range of matters, such as competitive market structures, enforcement of
regulatory arrangements, "public service" obligations and financing, and delineation of responsibilities for regulation,
supervision and operations, all functions which have been performed de facto by the public utilities and enterprises
themselves (e.g., TACV in air transport, CVT in telecommunications, EMPROFAC in pharmaceuticals). Most sectors
still require comprehensive analysis and definition of necessary regulations to address these issues so as to attract private
operators. Regulatory institutions were created for each sector, resulting in separate arrangements for water, electricity,
communication, civil aviation, maritime transport, urban collective transport, and pharmaceuticals, respectively, without
economies of scales and consistency across sectors. None of these institutions has appropriate decision-making
independence and accountability, or is financially viable; they need to be refocused and coordinated in order to improve
their efficiency and ensure their sustainability.
Regulatory Reforms:
18.    The Project will finance technical assistance to: (i) design and implement regulations and competition policies for
various sectors; (ii) design new regulatory institutional arrangements and rationalize regulatory and supervisory agencies;
(iii) consolidate relevant functions, including economic regulation, under multi-industry regulatory agencies and
strengthen their capacities; (iv) provide outside experts to advise on regulation during the stage devoted to local capacity
building, including through twinning arrangements between Cape Verdean regulatory agencies and more experienced
foreign regulators; (v) establish training programs for key staff; and (vi) provide essential equipment (e.g., frequency
management control system for telecommunications regulation) and working tools (e.g., computer equipment, data base
for drug registry system, management information system, training and procedural manuals, etc.) for regulatory
institutions. The terms of reference for advisory services to help GOCV design and implement a time-bound action plan
for regulatory capacity building are presented in the Project file (Annex 8).
19.    Key elements to be supported through this component are as follows:
(a) Regulatory Agencies: To better organize the framework of the regulatory function, the GOCV has decided to set
up two new agencies: (i) a multisector regulatory agency (MRA) for utilities (communications, energy and water)
and transport sectors (air, maritime and road transport). This agency will regulate these sectors when it is
operational in 1999. The Government will, however, develop interim arrangements to provide economic
regulations, review the institutional framework and build capacity, while preparing for the establishment of the
MRA. At the same time, GOCV will streamline the existing supervisory institutions under the PE line ministries



Page 30
to facilitate an orderly transition of regulatory functions to the MRA. During this process, GOCV intends to
quickly establish regulatory credibility both at the national and international levels in a cost-effective fashion,
through twinning arrangements with more experienced regulatory bodies abroad; and (ii) a food and drug
oversight agency (FDOA). This agency will provide regulatory oversight over the specific areas of food, drug
and consumer product quality control. The Project will support the establishment and capacity building of both
MRA and FDOA, and regulatory strengthening in each of the areas discussed below;
(b) Postal and Telecommunication Regulation. Institutional strengthening and capacity building will be accelerated
and built upon work already undertaken in conjunction with the privatization of the telecommunications company
(CVT) under the PTAP. Activities will focus on the following aspects: (a) review and modernize the postal and
telecommunications legislative and regulatory framework; (b) develop a time-bound action plan to regulate
communication through the multisector regulatory agency, and improve this sector's contribution to the agency's
financial sustainability and ability of self-financing through charges levied for its services; (c) develop rules for
effective competition in the telecommunications sector, taking into account CVT's concession contract; (d)
strengthen the capacity of policy and regulatory staff by training; and (e) design and implement a frequency
control and management system;
(c) Civil Aviation Regulation. Capacity building for civil aviation regulation will include the following activities: (a)
review and modernize the civil aviation legislative framework; (b) develop rules for effective competition in air
transport and continuity of public service obligations in domestic routes; and (c) enforce compliance with ICAO
and IATA regulations. These activities are scheduled for implementation during 1998-1999 to complement
preparation for privatization of the national airline company (TACV);
(d) Maritime Transport Regulation. This component will address both port and inter-island maritime transport
activities. The port regulatory framework and institutional arrangements will be reviewed and modernized by
measures, including: (a) consideration of different options for concessioning operations, including grouping the
main ports of Praia and Mindelo with the small ports in other islands; (b) development of appropriate price and
quality controls depending upon the chosen options of port operations; (c) developing a scheme for private port
operators to contribute financially to any remaining small ports; (d) review and modernize the legislative and
regulatory framework for port operations; and (e) strengthening of institutional capacity for port operation safety.
Regulation of inter-island maritime transport will include activities aiming at: (i) reviewing tariff and competition
policies and public service obligations in inter-island shipping; (ii) implementing policies which allow the
shipping companies to recover costs and ensure sustainable operations; and (iii) developing appropriate
institutional arrangements to support the sector regulatory framework, and strengthening existing and new
agencies' staff through training.  The above activities are scheduled to take place during 1998-1999, to
complement the divestiture of GOCV's inter-island maritime transport company (ARCA VERDE) and the two
main ports operated by ENAPOR.
(e) Urban Collective Transport Regulation. A well functioning urban collective passenger transport in today's society
requires a well-organized regulatory body. In order to meet this objective and render the sector stronger and
more autonomous, the following activities are foreseen: (a) review and modernize the sector legislative
framework; (b) assess the need for and develop a plan for financial sustainability through charges levied for
services provided; (c) review tariff and competition policies and public service obligations in urban collective
transportation; and (d) implement policy reforms for sector development based on the above review. These
activities are scheduled to take place during 1998-1999 to coincide with the preparatory work for the divestiture
of the urban collective transport passenger company (TRANSCOR);
(f) Pharmaceuticals Regulation. To strengthen this sector the following activities are foreseen: (a) review and
modernize sectoral legislative and regulatory framework for drug import; (b) support the DGP in assuming all
public health control, consumer protection and regulatory functions which are currently performed by the national
pharmaceutical board (EMPROFAC); (c) design and implement a drug registry system to promote the use of



Page 31
generic products and improve drug control and inspection; and (d) provide technical assistance and train staff.
These institutional strengthening activities will be carried out in parallel with work for EMPROFAC privatization
activities between June 1998 and December 1999; and
(g) Consumer Product Standard and Quality Control.  In its National Development Plan for 1998-2000, the
Government identified the need to create a consumer product standard and quality control authority (CPSQCA) as
an important strategy for improving the quality of goods and products consumed and/or produced in Cape Verde.
Activities in this domain will involve: (a) assessment and definition of the nature of the CPSQCA; (b) review and
modernization of pertinent sectoral legislative and regulatory framework; (c) development of an action plan to
create the CPSQCA as an autonomous and financially sustainable institution to regulate food, drug and consumer
product quality control; and (d) provide technical assistance and train staff. The institutional building activities
are anticipated to be carried out throughout 1999.
Implementation Arrangements:
20.   In 1998, the Government will appoint the installation committees to set up the MRA and FDOA. These
committees will implement the regulatory reforms in close coordination with the line ministries, with assistance from the
PCU. The PCU will be responsible for procuring the necessary technical assistance and ensuring timely implementation
of the reforms. GOCV will also enact all legislation necessary for the creation of these agencies in early 1999.
Training and Knowledge Building
21.    Capacity building and training of staff are at the core of GOCV's strategy to develop local expertise and ensure
the sustainability of reforms. The Project will include comprehensive training activities on privatization, retrenchment
and regulatory issues, to be implemented under each of the above Project components:
(a) Privatization training will be intended for the Project implementing unit staff, PE managers and Government
officials; about 25 persons will be involved. Training will cover, inter alia, financial and business analysis,
divestiture techniques, private participation in infrastructure and public services, and privatization investment
promotion. It will take the form of short-term courses, seminars, workshops, and exposure to best practices.
Project-financed technical consultants will also provide on-the-job training, as an essential part of their divestiture
assignments. Objectives, actions and monitorable progress indicators for on-the-job transfer of expertise will be
laid out in each technical assistance contract and supervised by the PCU. The Project will also finance technical
and managerial expertise for design and introduction of specific processes and methods for upgrading on-the-job
skills in particular areas of business (e.g., information technology, management information system, marketing
and services development) to enable the PEs under performance contract to achieve their efficiency targets;
(b) Training will be available for about 500 retrenched PE workers to facilitate their redeployment in the private
sector. The proposed training will consist of demand-driven and work-oriented courses, implemented on the
basis of cost-sharing with beneficiaries, within the framework of programs developed under the IDA-financed
Basic Education and Professional Training Project; and
(c) Regulatory training will aim to develop expertise of Cape Verdean regulators. The design and implementation of
this training are essential elements of the GOCV's action plan for regulatory capacity building, for which
consultant's terms of reference are presented in the Project file (Annex 8). Training courses will be carried out
after the establishment of new regulatory institutions. These courses will address both broad cross-sectoral issues
(e.g., legal, financial and economic aspects of regulation, options for price regulation, management of
concessions, negotiation analysis, dispute resolution techniques, community relations, etc.) and sector-specific
issues (e.g., special technical, safety, environmental requirements, international sector-related obligations, etc.).
They will include, inter alia: (a) programs specifically prepared by consultants for Cape Verde and existing"off-
the-shelf' courses on regulation; (b) study tours to learn from the experience of regulatory agencies in other



Page 32
countries; (c) twinning arrangements and/or cooperation agreements with more experienced foreign regulators;
and (d) development of information management techniques through collection and dissemination of information
by means of computer technology, internal seminars, subscription to information sources and regulatory
networking (e.g., International Forum for Utility Regulation, sponsored by the World Bank). The effectiveness of
this training will be monitored through progress indicators for transfer of expertise and institutional development.
22.   These activities will be implemented on the basis of annual training plans that will be updated periodically.
Experts will report explicitly at given periods on progress on on-the-job training and capacity building efforts. The
training plans will include, inter alia, justifications for training, selection of training institutions, programs and candidates,
and budgets and incentives for professional development, in order to monitor and evaluate the learning process.
Project Component 3 - Project Coordination: US$ 1.51 million
23.   The Project will be managed by a special Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), under the Office of the Vice Prime
Minister, which will assure the overall implementation responsibility. The Project will finance the PCU's consultant staff,
additional technical expertise, training, equipment and initial operating costs, to strengthen its capacities and ensure a
sound and effective Project implementation. It will also finance the audit of the Project.
24.   This PCU will build upon the experience of the Public Enterprise Sector Restructuring Unit (GARSEE) which
implemented the previous PTAP. The PCU will be staffed with five experienced staff and will be specifically in charge
of: (a) implementing the divestiture program; (b) supporting capacity building of regulatory institutions; (c) managing PE
labor issues and retrenchment program; (d) monitoring Project progress; and (e) supervising establishment of the financial
and accounting organization, monitoring budget preparation and assuring timely delivery of audits. It will contract out to
external consultants both the preparatory work for large privatization operations and the design and implementation of the
communication campaign.
25.   The PCU will also be responsible for pursuing agreements with the beneficiaries of technical assistance, notably
the PEs and regulatory institutions, on the scope and terms of reference of the proposed TA, ensuring internalization by
stakeholders and beneficiary participation in the assignment, identifying consulting services, procuring technical
assistance, auditing of contracts, as well as necessary reporting requirements to GOCV and IDA. The PCU would be
advised by an Advisory Committee, which would include senior officials from Government, regulatory institutions and
private sector. This Committee will provide strategic advice to the PCU, improve communication, and minimize overlaps
between regulatory agencies. It will also initiate policy debates and the establishment of arm's-length relationships
between Government, utility operators, and consumer representatives, particularly on regulatory issues.



Page 33
Annex 3
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                         Local        Foreign      Total
---------------US$ million-----------------
I- Accelerated Privatization Program                       1.22          2.51       3.73
1. Support to privatization program                      0.71          2.33      3.04
2. Support to PE staff retrenchment plan                 0.39             0      0.39
3. Public communication campaigns                        0.12          0.18      0.30
II- Consolidated Regulatory Framework                      0.27          3.89       4.16
1. Establishment of regulatory arrangements and institutions  0.11    1.56       1.67
2. Support to civil aviation regulation                 0.03          0.95       0.98
3. Support to postal and telecommunication regulation   0.06          0.89       0.95
4. Support to maritime transport regulation                0          0.11       0.11
5. Support to urban transport regulation                   0          0.15       0.15
6. Support to pharmaceuticals regulation and CPSQC      0.07          0.23       0.30
III- Project Coordination                                  1.21          0.18       1.39
Total Baseline Cost                                        2.70          6.58       9.28
Contingencies                                                0           0.72      0.72
Total Project Cost                                         2.70          7.30      10.00



Page 34
Annex 4
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
Economic Analysis Summary
Note:
The proposed operation is a technical assistance project which will provide the resources and capacity to both
complete the privatization program over the next three years and create permanent capacity for regulation in
various sectors. Its direct benefits will be intangible and, therefore, a full economic cost-benefit analysis was not
attempted given the TA nature of the Project.
Project Benefits:
* Productivity gains;
* Increased output resulting from additional capital investment by privatized firms;
* Additional income from the net creation ofjobs in the private sector;
* Factor cost savings from the reduction of average production costs of selected utility and transport companies;
and
 Consumer surplus from lower tariffs, improved access and quality of utility and transport services provided.
Comments:
The above items are indirect benefits expected from the project implementation. They would contribute to its
outcome and long-term development impact.
Project Costs:
* IDA credit amounting US$ 9 million; and
* GOCV contribution:
- Direct costs equivalent to US$ I million for Project counterpart funds;
- Indirect costs estimated at US$ 10 million for labor retrenchment funding; and
- Indirect costs estimated at US$ 38 million for PEs' debts and other liabilities assumed by Government prior
to divestiture.
Fiscal Impact:
* Decreased outlays for infrastructure and utility projects, and economies on capital investment cost;
. Positive fiscal impact from reduced subsidies and other (indirect) transfers to loss-making enterprises;
* Gains in corporate and other taxes; and
a Increased Government revenues from privatization proceeds. Gross privatization receipts are estimated at
US$ 150 million over the next three years. They would generate at least US$ 80 million of net fiscal
revenues.
Comments:
Since the privatization process is a market driven process, it is not possible to have a sound estimate of its
fiscal impact prior to settlement of transactions (in the absence of a stock market). However,. conservative
estimates suggest that this impact would be substantial. For instance, the Project, together with ERSO, would
help generate over US$ 80 million of net privatization proceeds over three years, representing about 35
percent of Government revenues in 1997. It would also help GOCV achieve its long-term fiscal balance and
macroeconomic stability objectives under the ERSO.



Page 35
Annex 5
Cape Verde - Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
Financial Summary
(US$ Million)
Implementation Period                     Operational Period
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs           1.28    2.42    2.74    2.01    1.04    9.49
Recurrent Costs            0.11    0.10    0.10    0.11    0.09    0.51
Total *                 1.39    2.52    2.84    2.12    1.13   10.00
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IDA                       94      95      93      74      98      90
Government                 6       5       7      26       2      10
Total                  100    100    100    100    100    100
* Contingency cost of USS 0.36 million
included under recurrent costs



Page 36
Annex 6
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PROCUREMENT
The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million, including contingencies)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                      Total Cost
(incl.
contingencies)
......... ................... .......................... .. ........   ...................... ......................
ICB    .   NCB           Other       N.B.F
1- Consultants and Studies                                 7.31                       7.31
.  (7.3 1)   .             (7.31)
2- Equipment, Goods and          0.65         0 32         0 18                        1.15
Vehicle                      (0.49)        (0.24)      (0.14)                      (0.86)
.......................................................................  ............................. ................ .............................. ...............................................   ..............................................................................
3- Training/Visits                                          1.03                       1.03
(0.82)                     (0.82)
4- Operating Costs                                         0.51                        0.51
--j(0.0)       j            .. l (0.0)
Total Project Costs           0.65    .   0.32          9.03                       10.00
(IDA Financing)              (0.49)       (0.24)       (8.27)                      (9.00)
a Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
b Other procurement methods include shopping, selection of consultants following IDA guidelines,
expenditure following Government's administrative procedures acceptable to IDA, and direct
purchasing of goods.
c N.B.F. =Not Bank-financed: (details to be provided).
d "Goods" includes purchase of equipment, related supplies and vehicle.
e Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation,
management and supervision, including office supplies, communication costs, travel allowance of
project staff but excluding salaries of the Borrower's civil servants.
All goods and services under the IDA Credit would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines for goods, works and
services (Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits, January 1995 and revised in January and August
1996 and September 1997 (Procurement Guidelines) and Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by World Bank as Executing Agency, January 1997 revised in September 1997 (Consultant Guidelines). Contracts to
supply goods and equipment will be the responsibility of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) under the Office of the
Vice Prime Minister.



Page 37
Procurement capacity of the Project Coordinating UJnit
The Project Coordinator is already familiar with the World Bank's procedures that he applied within the framework of the
previous Privatization Technical Assistance Project (Cr.. 2377-CV) and the PPF-financed preparatory work for the
proposed Project. However, given the volume of consultants contracts envisaged under the project, particularly during
the first year of implementation, the PCU will assign a staff with specific responsibilities to monitor procurement
activities and ensure timely project execution. Training will be organized for both procurement and disbursement
employees before Credit effectiveness.
Procurement schedule
A procurement schedule will be prepared by the Borrower and will be available for review at negotiations. It will include
relevant information concerning procurement of goods and services, and timing for the use of consultants.
Contracts for consultants and training
Consulting services financed by IDA would be for: (i) preparation of bidding documents, data collection, auditing,
accounting systems, financial management supports, and impact analysis; (ii) advisory services in the privatization
process; and (iii) training. Consultants financed by IDA, totaling US$7.5 million, would be hired in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997, revised in September 1997). It will
be addressed through competition among qualified short-listed firms in which the selection will be based on Quality-and
Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposal before comparing the cost of the services to be
provided. Advisory services for large privatizations will be grouped into a single package and contracted out to a firm, in
order to simplify the procedures and attract the interest of internationally reputable and specialized firms. For audits of a
standard nature the Least-Cost Selection will be the most appropriate mnethod - the firm with the lowest price will be
selected, provided its technical proposal received the minimum mark. Consultants services for short-term legal advisory
services (estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract and up to an aggregate of US$300,000) would be based on
Consultants' Qualifications based on the consultants' experience and competence relevant to the assignment. Services for.
lectures and small studies which can be delivered by Individual Consultants will be selected through comparison of
qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly. Single Source Selection is not
foreseen as a selection method to be used for this project.
For training abroad and in country, the program containing names of candidates, costs estimates, courses, period of
training and institutions selected would be reviewed by IDA annually.
Short-lists for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants if a sufficient
number of qualified firms (at least three) are available at competitive costs. However, if foreign firns have expressed
interest for those contracts, they will not be excluded from consideration. The standard Letter of Invitation and Form of
Contract as developed by the Bank will be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for
short-term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual consultants. The
Government has been briefed during a CPPR mission about the features of the new Consultants Guidelines, in particular
with regards to advertisement and public bid opening.
Review -by the Bank of the selection of consultants
Procurement Plan. The plan for the selection of consultants under the project will be furnished to IDA before
negotiations for review and approval, in accordance with the provision of paragraph I of Appendix I to the consultant
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants' services will be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan.
Prior Review. IDA-financed contracts for goods above the threshold value of US$100,000 equivalent will be subject to
IDA's prior review procedures. Draft standard bidding documents for NCB would be reviewed and agreed upon with



Page 38
IDA during appraisal: Bank staff will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the
Borrower. Prior IDA review for consultants services will include the review of budgets, short-lists, selection procedures,
requests for proposals, technical evaluation and financial evaluation reports and negotiated contracts. However, it will not
apply to contracts for the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and
US$50,000 equivalent respectively. The exception to prior IDA review will not apply to the Terms of Reference of such
contracts, regardless of their value, to single-source hiring, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, or to
amendments of contracts raising ihe contract value above the above-mentioned prior review thresholds. For consultant
contracts estimated above US$150,000, opening the financial envelopes will not take place prior to receiving the Bank's
no-objection to the technical evaluation. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$150,000 but more than US$100,000
the borrower will notify IDA of the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening the financial proposals. The
review process would cover about 53 percent of the total value of the amount contracted for goods and 90 percent of the
amount contracted for consultants services.
Post Review. With respect to each contract below the prior review thresholds, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines will apply. Documents related to contracts on account of which withdrawals are made on
the basis of SOEs will be maintained by the borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions.
Selective post-review of contracts awarded below the prior review threshold levels will apply to about one in three
contracts.
Procurement of goods
ICB using the Bank standard bidding documents would be used for procurement of spectrum management equipment.
Other goods will be grouped as far as possible in packages of US$200,000 or more and procured through ICB. NCB
acceptable to IDA would be used for contracts of the range of US$50,000 to US$200,000 per contract, for procurement of
vehicle, computers, office equipment and working tools for regulatory agencies, for an aggregate expected not to exceed
the amount of US$0.4 million. Procurement for readily available off-the shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard
specifications commodities for individual contracts less than US$50,000 not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$0.4
million for the life of the project, will be procured on the basis of comparison of at least three eligible local suppliers.
IAPSO procurement may be used for purchase of small number of vehicle or equipment needed at the start of the project
and which cannot be packaged for competitive tenders, for an aggregate amount of US$0.2 million.



Page 39
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review (Amount in US$)
Expenditure     Contract Value       Procurement              Contracts Subject to
Category         Threshold            Method         Prior Review / Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
1. Goods         $200,000 and      ICB                   Prior review.
above                                  Aggregate $600,000
Between $50,000   NCB                  Post review.
and $200,000                           Aggregate $300,000
Below $50,000     3 quotations (national)  Post review
Aggregate $230,000
2. Consulting    $150,000 and      QCBS + Short List     Prior review
Firms          above                                   Issue an advertisement in the B.D. to
get expression of interests.
Technical evaluation receives IDA
non-objection before opening financial
proposals.
Aggregate $4.0 million
Between $100,000   QCBS + Short List   Prior review
and $150,000      LCS for audits       Score of technical evaluation
QA for legal advisory  transmitted to IDA before opening
services             financial proposals.
Aggregate $2.0 million
Below $100,000    QCBS + Short List     Short-lists may be comprised entirely
of national firms if there is at least
three national reliable firms. Post
review. Aggregate: $0.3 million
3. Individual    $50,000 and above  Other: (Comparison of  Prior review
Consultants                      at least three 3 CVs)    Aggregate: $0.1 million
Below $50,000     Other: (Comparison of  Post review
at least three 3 CVs)    Aggregate: $0.1 million
4. Miscellaneous   NA              NA                    NA
Total Value of                                           $6.6 million
Contracts Subject
to Prior Review:
Prior Review: Prior review is required for:
*  All terms of reference for consultants, studies and training;
*  Annual training and procurement plans;
*  Short list, selection and contract with consulting firms of an equivalent value of US$ 100,000 or more;
*  Short list, selection and contract with individual consultants of an equivalent value of US$50,000 or more;
*  All contracts for goods above US$100,000;
*  Sole source selection of individual consultants and firms; and
*  Amendments to contracts with consulting firms or individuals that bring the total value of the contract to US$100,000
equivalent or above for firms and US$50,000 for individuals.



Page 40
DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursements will be made for goods and services that are eligible for IDA financing.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
Contracts of less than US$100,006 equivalent for goods and consulting firms
Contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants and training
Contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent for operating costs
Special account:
Special Account: Authorized allocation of US$ 250,000
Initial deposit in the Banco de Cabo Verde (BCV) of the Borrower upon effectiveness
Direct payment: minimum application amount above or equivalent to 20 percent of Account deposit.
Disbursement categories and the percentage financed are shown in Table C below.
Table C-1: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category                                   Amount in US$ million                                 Financing Percentage
1. Consultants and studies                                                         6.56                                    100% of expenditures
.................................................. ....... . ................ ................................. .. .... ................................................. .................... ............................... .....................................................
2. Equipment, goods and vehicle                                                      0.75                                   75% of expenditures
3. Training/isits                                                                   0.71                                    80% of expenditures
4. Operating Costs                                                                       0                                             None
S ................. ..       ................................................... ....................................................................................................................
5. PPF                                                                              0.70
...............................................................................................  .....................................................................................................................
6. Unallocated                                                                      0.28                                                N.A.
................................................... -..........................................................................    1----   -   -   --  --- -...................... .................   -...........
Total                                                    9.00                                                100%
Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation, management and
supervision, including office rent and supplies, communication costs, local travel allowance of project staff but excluding
salaries of the Borrower's civil service, fuel, and maintenance of vehicle, office space and equipment.
Table C- 2: Allocation of Credit Proceeds per Component (Amount in US$ million)
Categories                                    Accelerated                      Consolidated                       Project                  Total
Privatization                      Regulatory                  Coordination
Program                        Framework
1. Consultants and studies                                                2.83                               2.73                        1.00                   6.56
2. Equipment, goods and vehicle                                           0.09                               0.64                        0.02                   0.75
....................................... ...  ......... .................     ........... ..................................... .... ........................................ ...... .................... ....... ......................
3. Training                                                               0.35                               0.34                        0.02                   0.71
.................. ~        ~~............................... ................................... .......................................... ............................................. ..............................
4. Operating Costs                                                             0                                  0                           0                      0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................................... ..................... ................................................... .................................................... ................................... .............................................. ..............
5. PPF                                                                    0.30                               0.17                        0.23                   0.70
...  K ~   i.................. ..................... ...... ......   ................................... .................I............ ............................ ........ ......I...... ...................... ..........  ......... ...... .. .......... .............. ...... ..................... .
6.tal Unallocat0.13                                                                   0.12                       0.03                    0.28
Total                                             3.70 .............                 4.00            1......       30..                  9.00....



Page 41
Project Accounts and Auditing
A private accounting firm will be hired to design accounting and administrative procedures and produce the operation
manual, hire and train the accountants. Project accounts will be audited annually according to international auditing
standards by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; special accounts and all disbursements under SOEs will be
audited semi-annually; and the annual audit report will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal
year and the semi-annual audit report within three months of each period.
Prior to credit effectiveness, Government will be required to make the initial deposit of the counterpart funds equivalent
to US$ 50,000 to the Project Account. Government will also maintain the value of the Project Account throughout its
implementation.



Page 42
Annex 7
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         6                    6
First Bank mission (The project was identified  20/09/97             20/09/97
within the framework of ERSO preparation)
Pre-appraisal mission departure                 02/23/98            02/23/98
Appraisal mission departure                     04/27/98             06/01/98
Negotiations                                    04/27/98             06/10/98
Board                                           06/14/98             07/14/98
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   11/20/98               l /19
Prepared by: Office of the Vice Prime Minister
Preparation assistance: PPF No. Q090-0 CV: $700,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Specialty
Jean-Michel Happi               Economist, AFTP1
Roy Pepper                      Principal Industrial Economist, PSDEN
Michael Warlters                Regulatory Specialist, PSDPP
Lucy Fye                        Consultant, AFTP I
Gradimir Radisic                Economist, AFTM5
Noel Tshiani                    Financial Specialist, AFTPI
Pierre Henault                  Senior Port Specialist, AFTT2
Quality Assurance Team:
Name                                    Specialty
Loup Brefort                    Manager Privatization and PSD, PSDDR
Jose Sokol                      Lead Advisor, AFTM4
Emmanuel Mbi                    Principal Economist, AFTT2



Page 43
Annex 8
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Project Implementation Plan (in progress)
* Procurement Plan (in progress)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
* Country Assistance Strategy for Cape Verde, Report No. 17206-CV, December 1997
* Memorandum of the President and DCA on the ERSO (Credit 3027-CV)
* Mission Aide-Memoire of March 1998
* Project Information Document
* Project Environmental Sheet
* Addendum to Project Risk Analysis (PAD - Section F.2.): Privatization Political Risk Analysis
* Addendum to Project Design Summary (Annex 1): Utility Performance Indicators
* Addendum to Project Fiscal Impact Analysis (Annex 4): Estimated Receipts from Privatization
* Addendum to Project Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements (Annex 6): Detailed Project Costs and
Disbursement Schedule
C. Other
* Study on Public Enterprise Sector Employment: Excess Labor in Eleven State-owned Enterprises and Its
Reinsertion in the Labor Market - Consultant Report, October 1997
* Draft Public Enterprise Sector and Regulatory Framework Profiles - Consultant Report, 1998
* Draft Project Economic Impact Analysis - Consultant Report, 1998
- ICAO Report on Civil Aviation, 1998
- Report on Privatization of ENAPOR - Consultant Report, 1997
e Draft terms of reference (TOR) for consultants in the following areas:
*  Design and implementation of a time bound action plan for regulatory capacity building
*  Design and implementation of urban collective transport reform, including route concessioning and
divestiture of bus company (TRANSCOR);
*  Design and implementation of inter-island maritime transport reform, including route service
contracting and liquidation of shipping company (ARCA VERDE);
*  Design and implementation of privatization strategies for maritime-related companies, including the
ports, shipyard (CABMAR/CABNAVE) and freezing storage facilities (INTERBASE);
*  Design and implementation of privatization strategies for financial institutions, including commercial
banks (BCA, CECV), insurance company (GARANTIA) and venture capital company
(PROMOTORA);
*  Design and implementation of performance contract for the postal services company (CORREIOS);
*  Design and implementation of performance contract for the airport management company (ASA);
and
*  Environmental audits of selected PEs targeted for privatization.
* Including electronic files.



Page 44
Annex 9
Status of Bank Group Operations in Cape Verde
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual               Last ARPP
Loan or   Ftscal                                                                                                                disbursements a/    Supervision Rating bl
Project ID    Credit      Year              Borrower                     Purpose
No.                                                                        IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd   Dev Obj           rmp Prog
tumber of Closed Loans/credits: S
Active Loans
CV-PE-435     IDA 24660   1993  GOV'T, ENAPOR, ASA                TRANSPORT INFgASTRUC         0.00       12.50            0.00          3.64      3.47       0.00       S            S
CV-PS-437      tIA 25660   1994  GOVT OF CAPE VERDE               PUB SEC REFORM & CAP         0.00        8.10            0.0o          2.52      1.57       1.57      uS            S
CV-P-426      IDA 26750   1995  MIN EDUC & SPORTS/LABOR,         BASIC EDUCATION AND          0.00       11.50            0.00          2.89     -1.79       0.00       s            s
CV-PS-438     IDA 28640   1996                                    PRIVATE/FINANCIAL SE         0.00       11.40            0.00          6.78      1.13       0.00      HS            HS
CV-Pe-s0956   IDA 30270   1998  GOV. OF CAPE VERDE                ECO. REFORMS SUPPORT         0.00       30.00            0.00         29.26      0.00       0.00
Total                                                                                          0.00       73.50            0.00         45.09      4.38       1.57
Active Loans        Closed Loans            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 26.19               3.40               W9.59
of which has been repaid:                 0.00                 .61                 .61
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 73.50              20.73               94.23
Amount sold                                      0.00               0.00                0.00
Of which repaid             :                 0.00               0.00                0.00
Total Undisbursed               :               45.09                 .12              45.21
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (US - highly Satisfactory, S - satisfactory, U - unsatisfactory,
HU - highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Page 45
Annex 10
Cape Verde
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 31-May-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1992                  AEF Growela             .45    0.00    0.00    0.00      .45    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEF Htl Tropico         .76    0.00    0.00    0.00      .76    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   1.21    0.00    0.00   . 0.00    1.21    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equiy Quasi Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Page 46
Annex 1                                                       Page l of 2
Cape Verde at a glance                                                                &25/98
Sub.   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                   Cape  Saharan   middle-
Verde    Afca  Income        Drdelopment diamond
Popuaon mid-i 00 (mgns)                                0.4      600     1,125
GNP per capita 1990 (USS)                            t 090      490    1.750                  Life expectancy
GNP 199 fifOns USS)                                    0.4      294    1.967
Average annual growth, 1SS0-96
Population (X)                                         2.2      2.7       1.4
Labor foce tX)                                         2.9      2.6       1.8     GNP                              Gross
11 cestztimate (latestye varmilable sJn,ce 1989)                                  caper                          prinary
Most Vacnt ftdMt~ (ISI  Yftf fd&bf~ 0     1.989)capit                                     enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of populatbn)
Urban popuation (% of fal populaon)                    54        31       58
Life expectancy at birth (yeas)                        e6        52       67
Infant mortality wer 1,000 he births)                  46        92       41
Child malnuftrffon (% ochddn under 5)                    .                                  Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of populahon)                  52        47
Illiteracy t% of populabbon age 15+)                   28        43
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age populathon)  131       72      104             Cape Verde
Male                                                132        78      105         _    Lower-mniddf-income group
Female                                              130        65      101
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985     1995      1998
Economic ratlos
GDP (billions USS)                           0.1       0.1      0.4       0.4
Gross domestic investrent/GDP               21.3      54.2     34.8      33.5
Exports of goods and serices/GDP            14.5      29.0     19.8      23.7              Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  -16.5     -5.8    -14.5     -7.0
Gross national savingstGDP                  -21.0     11.2     20.3      25.6
Current account balancelGDP                          -32.9    -14.5      -7.9
Interest paymenWGDP                          0.0       2.4      0.5       0.5     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                               0.7      91.3     51.5      53.8
Total debt service?exports                            16.0      3.2       5.1
Present value of debt/GDP                                      31.9
Present value of debVexports                                   73.4
Indebtedness
1975-45  1986-9      15       1996  199745
(avwage annual growth)
GDP                                10.8      4.9       4.7      4.3       4.8        -     Cape Verde
GNP per capita                     10.8      2.7       2.0      1.5       2.1              Lower-middle-incomne group
Exports of goods and services      16.0       5.1     18.4     25.0      12.9
STRUCTURE of th ECONOMY
1975     1985     1995      1999     Growth rates of output and Investment(%)
I`X of GDP)
Agriculture                                   8.5     11.6      7.4       7.5    '
Industry                                     18.2     17.3     19.2      17.6    20 -
Manufacturing                                        0.0       0.6      0.6
Senvices                                    73.3      71.1     73.4      74.9              /               -- 0   --
Private consumption                        107.8      96.9     82.8      77.4
General government consumption               8.6       9.0     31.7      29.5
Imports of goods and services               52.2      89.0     69.1      64.2                             GOP
(average annual growthi)                 197545  1986-96       19"      1996      Growth rats of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  10.9     -3.9      1.4       5.8     3 -
Industry                                     7.0       8.7      4.9       2.5    20 -
Manufacturing                                       22.8       7.9      3.9
Services                                    11.5       5.6      5.0       4.8     '         /-
Private consumpbon                           8.9       4.2     26.5      -2.9      a                9          0*
General govemment consumption                7.6      13.2    -12.5      -2.7    -t - 
Gross domestic investment                    14.0      3.6    -12.2       1.5     20-
Importsofgoodsandservkces                   11.1       6.8     10.6      -3.1
Gross naonal product                         12.0      4.9      4.4       4.0       Ex                 -   poS
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete



Page 47
Page 2 of 2
Cape Verde
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic   es1975                                     1985      199      19W    flflalfe I%
(i change)                                                                         12.
Consumer prices                                 ..     5.4       8.4       8.2    10
Implicit GDP deflator          ,              7.5      4.2       8.4       4.4     a
Govenmentfinance                                                                    2
(% of GDrP)                                                                                      ,   .       .      .     .
Cufrent revenue                                ..    21.5       37.5      37.7            SI   *2 U          94    U     9
Current budget balance                         ..    -0.5        8.8      10.3                    GDPdf.    C P
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..   -46.2    .20.1    -19.1
TRADE
s1975    1s        199s5    199B      Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
(milLions USS)
Totalexports(fob)                               ,.       3         8       13      27
Comrodity i.                                           ..        0         1
Commodity 2                                   ..       ..        1         1
Manufactures                                  ..                 a         o 0
Total imports (cif)                            ..        ..      252      203
Food                                          .                 85        45     12
Fuel and energy                                                  5        4II  10
Capital goods                                 ..       .       129       119       O
Export price index (1987=100)                                    133      133           9O   9    *2  15   94   95   9
lmportpriceindex(1987=100)                     ..       ..       93        98                  cExpcw       elnpart
Temis of tade (1987=100)                        .        ..      143      135
RALANCE o PAYMENTS
(millions US$)                              1976      1s9s     199s      1996      Current account balance to GDP ratio 1%)
Exports of goods and services                  ..       38        83      101       0                       94   -
Importsofgoodsandservices                       .       95      290       273       2                            iS
Resource balance                                .      -59      -207      -172      4
Net income                                               2        -5        -7     41
Net current transfers                                   22       152      148
Current account balance,                                                          -jo
before official capital transfers             .       35      -41        -33 3           
Financing items (net)                                   49       75        32    .14
Changes in net reserves                                -14       -14        2      .-1
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)             .        5        S1       54
Conversion rate (DcaWUSS)                    25.5     91.6      76.9      82.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(millhns USS)                                                                    i Compositon of totl debt, 1S5 (min. USS)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            1       97       218    , 229
IBRD                                         0         0        0         0
IDA                                          0         3       33    -42    IF G O 6    B 42
Total debt service                             0         5         8       10oI
IBRD                                         0   0              0                      E: 38   Y ,
IDA                                          0         0        0         O
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              8        37       69        58
Official creditors                           1        17        13       38
Private creditors                            0         1        0         0
Foreign direct investrment                   0         0       26        28
Portfolioequity                              0         0         0        0
0:137
Ubrod Bank program
Commitments                                  0         4        12       11    -laRD                         6-Bi
Disbursements                                0         2        6         9      B-IDA    0 - Of r multra    F -riat
Prindpal repayments                          0         0         0        0    i C- IMF                      0- Short4rm
Net fIows                                    0         2        e         9    ;
Interest payments                            0         0         0        0
Net transfers                                0         2         e        9
Development Ecornomics                                                                                              6825/98



MAP SECTION



Villa Grandeo    25                                                                 24'                                                                  2'
Ribeira do Cruzo                 0Janela
SANTO ANTAO
-17'                            Torrafal de    oVila do PBrto Novo
17   Torroful de~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
oMonte Trigo
Mindelo, 0 Solamonoso
0Calhou
Sao Pedroo        0AA
SAO  VICENTE           Maceiral     SANTA  LUZIA                                                                                                    Polmeirao     aPedrodeLume
- SAL
BRANCO            Praci Branca0      Ribeira
RASO         Barril0     0Brr                Costilhia                                                                     Cjnntn  Ma
Tarrafal    0Pregui;a    Carriol
SAO NICOLAU
CAPE VERDE
a    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                            Vilode Sol-Reio            oGata
*    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                               o
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                        BOA VISTA                         Figu5eiros
0Joao Borrosa
-16'                   0     10    20    30    40    50 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                                        0Curral Velho    I
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group,
any judgment an the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement
or occeptonce of such boundaries.
FORMER             .                 N
SPANISH                         I j
SAHARA ___ J                   j            N
MAURITANIA                                                                                          Tarrafol
CAPE VERDE                                                                                                                 de Santiagoo                                           0Santo Antonio
M AL I                                                                                                     doMneCalhetao
u9*\       _  I                                                                               SANTIAGO               oArcho do Monte           oo           MAIO
SENEGA CY~                                                                                                                    0CoIheta de         Moro             MAI
THE GAMBIA  --'         t.'                                                                                        Ribeira do Barca0           Sao Miguel         V         Figueira do Horta
,BURKINA                                                                        Santa Catarinao            .              Majo
GUINEA-BISSAU                             URASN                                                                                                                 Viad
GUINEA Ji             .---r                                Fajazinhao                            Porto Rincaoa,               Joao Teves
-15             SECOS  sCoogo -M59i0                                                                Nossa Senhora de Luz                                            15'
SIERRA LEONE .fr.    COTE   /        >Corvo
>                                ,    i D'IVOIRE       Z                                               FOGO                         Porto Gouveioc_
0c                              LIBERIA               T                                                                                  Cidade Velho'  (  e
FoaoS  0Furno         0    cpot'm  0Cova Figueira                      Cdd   eh              RI
TOGO                                                  Aora
Cacho.a0 BRAVA                   .A[catraz
24'                                                                 230



