Report No. PID5995
Project Name                     Cape Verde-Privatization and Regulatory...
Capacity Building Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Private Sector Development
Project ID                       CVPE55467
Borrower                         Government of Cape Verde
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economic Cooperation
Date this PID prepared           January 30, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           March 23, 1998
Project Board Date               June 16, 1998
1.      Country and Sector Background.   To accelerate growth and
decrease poverty, Cape Verde's Government has been carrying out a
home-grown economic reform program since late 1991. Implementation
of this program has been characterized by strong domestic ownership
and a good track record, although with 30t of the population in
poverty, Cape Verde remains a low income country, albeit with better
social indicators than other countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Annual growth averaged 4 percent between 1992-96, compared to about
1 percent between 1990-91, in response to a sizable public
investment program (PIP) aimed at developing basic economic and
social infrastructure and alleviating poverty, expanding the private
sector, in part through privatization, and restructuring public
enterprises.
2.      Public sector reforms aimed at opening-up the economy and
promoting the role of the private sector have spearheaded the
Government's economic reform program, in contrast with inward-
looking policies of the 1970s and 1980s which relied on a large
parastatal sector. The agenda has included: (i) import and price
liberalization; (ii) elimination of foreign exchange controls; (iii)
tax policy and administration reforms; (iv) restructuring and
privatization of public enterprises; (v) financial sector reform;
(vi) streamlining the legal and regulatory system governing private
investment, particularly foreign; (vii) modernization and
decentralization of the public administration; (viii) development of
economic and social infrastructure in support of private sector
activities and poverty alleviation; (ix) reform of the education
sector aimed at improving quality and increasing mandatory basic
education from 4 to 6 years; and (x) broadening professional and
vocational training in support of private sector development.
3.      Implementation of the reform agenda has produced positive
results, notably strengthened growth, rapid expansion of non-
traditional exports, increased remittances, foreign investment and
aid flows from abroad, the emergence of domestic private sector
activities, strengthened revenue mobilization, increased efficiency
of restructured public enterprises, broadened coverage of economic



and social infrastructure in support of private sector development
and poverty alleviation, and a marked improvement in social indicators.
4.      However, the country's macroeconomic situation remains fragile,
in part as a result of the government's development strategy. Since
1993, the Government has been carrying out an ambitious development
agenda which included: (i) rehabilitation and construction of
economic and social infrastructure; (ii) a massive public works
program to mitigate high unemployment; and (iii) fully financed
"food-for-work" programs when food aid has been in short supply.
Implementation of this agenda led to an increasing level of domestic
borrowing in order to secure resources for fully domestically-
financed projects and local counterpart funds for externally-
financed projects. This, in turn, led to an unsustainable level of
public expenditure that reached alarming magnitudes (the overall
budget deficit after official grants, concessional financing and
privatization proceeds reached about 11 percent and 7 percent of GDP
in 1994 and 1995, respectively), primarily financed by domestic
borrowing. Increasing reliance on domestic capital market financing
led to a rapid increase in Cape Verde's domestic debt from about 19
percent of GDP in 1992 to about 46 percent of GDP in 1996. As of
October 1997, the stock of domestic debt was about US$180 million.
5.      Substantial progress was made in 1996 and 1997 in reversing
both domestic and external imbalances. The economy grew at 4
percent in real terms in each year, and inflation was held to
between 6 and 7%. Exports of goods and non-factor services
increased by about 26 percent in 1996, and with declines in imports,
the current account deficit improved to approximately 21% of GDP in
1997. As a result of a disciplined monetary policy stance, money
growth was contained at 10 percent; however, credit to the private
sector was crowded-out by the Government's continued domestic
borrowing, until the government decided to stop using domestic
credit during 1997. On the fiscal side, revenue collection
continued to improve and overall expenditure growth slowed down, so
that the budget deficit after official grants, concessional
assistance and privatization proceeds fell from 7 percent of GDP in
1996 to around 4% in 1997.
6.      Under the government's economic program (precautionary Standby
for 1998 and subsequent monitoring arrangements) with the IMF, real
GDP growth is projected to average 4.3 percent per annum during
1998-2000. Macroeconomic performance is envisaged to improve
generally, and the government envisages that budget surpluses will
materialize after 1998 and that they, along with proceeds from the
continuing privatization program (estimated to be about $80
million), will be used to reduce the stock of domestic debt.
However, Cape Verde will continue to depend on substantial amounts
of external financing in grants and concessional loans over the next
three years, to underpin the Government's financial program and
avoid a sharp reduction in the projected real GDP growth rate, which
would further crowd-out the incipient private sector and lead to
reduced allocations to the social sectors. With improvements in the
country's balance of payments position, reliance on external
resources is projected to decrease gradually, beginning in the year 2001.
- 2 -



7.      The external financing gap to be met with balance of payments
support is estimated at about US$180 million over the 1998-2000
period. The availability of this financing will be critical for the
domestic debt reduction to materialize and produce a sharp
turnaround in public finances which would, in turn, allow for
increasing budgetary allocations to the social sectors. At the July
1997 Roundtable meeting, donors were identified for about half the
required amount. Through the Economic Reforms Support Operation
(P7195-CV), which provides $30 million at IDA terms, the World Bank
is supporting the Government's reform program. Under this project,
the Government has committed to implementing an accelerated
privatization program, further legal reforms to help attract private
investment, further trade reform, completion of price
liberalization, and public sector reforms in the areas of financial
management, civil service reform and fiscal decentralization. Under
the ERSO project preparation, the government established a specific
program for accelerating the privatization of its remaining PE
portfolio over the next three years and for strengthening its
regulatory capacity in the areas of civil aviation, maritime
transport, electricity and water, telecommunications,
pharmaceuticals and quality control and product standards.
8.      Project Objectives.   The major objective of the Privatization
and Regulatory Capacity Building Project is to help the Government
to complete its PE reform and privatization program, which was
initiated under the previous IDA-financed Privatization Technical
Assistance Project (PTAP, Credit 2377-CV). The project will support
the government's policy of (a) reducing the size of the public
sector in productive sectors; (b) refocussing and improving the
efficiency of the public sector; (c) increasing private
participation in various sectors, such as telecommunications,
transport, energy and water and pharmaceuticals through development
of policy and regulatory frameworks; and (d) reducing the stock of
domestic debt through the use of privatization receipts.
9.      Project Description.   The Project consists of three components:
Component 1--Accelerated Privatization Program will provide
technical assistance resources to help design and implement: (a) the
accelerated privatization program, which consists of 34 small,
medium and large enterprises and financial institutions to be
privatized between the beginning of 1998 and the end of 2000; (b) a
PE labor retrenchment plan for the 25t of PE workers identified as
redundant in a study carried out in 1997; and (c) communications
campaigns designed to inform investors of privatization
opportunities, improve public acceptance of the privatization
program, improve transparency of transactions and to comply with
legislative requirements for public announcement and reporting of sales.
Component 2--Consolidated Regulatory Framework will finance
technical assistance for: (a) designing and implementing regulations
and policies in various sectors; (b) designing appropriate
regulatory institutional arrangements and rationalizing and/or
strengthening regulatory institutions; (c) advising on twinning
arrangements between Cape Verdean and foreign regulatory
institutions; and (d) designing and implementing training and other
-3 -



support programs for key regulatory staff.
Component 3--Project Coordination will finance the costs of a
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) located in the Ministry of Economic
Coordination, which will be responsible for the overall management
and implementation of activities under the Project.
10.     Project Financing.   The Project cost, including contingencies,
is $8.2 million equivalent. IDA will finance $7.0 million equivalent.
11.     Project Implementation.   Implementation of the accelerated
privatization program is governed by the Privatization Law (Lei
47/IV/92 of July 6, 1992 and revised in October 1997), which
establishes in considerable detail the procedures for privatization
transactions. The PCU will be responsible for managing individual
transactions in accordance with the overall strategy and timetable
for sales, and it will be responsible for managing the contracts
signed with domestic and foreign consultants involved in individual
transactions. The PCU will also manage the design and supervise the
implementation of labor retrenchment programs associated with the
privatization and restructuring of PEs, and will manage the
consulting assignments for communications campaign activities. In
the regulatory area, the respective line ministries and regulatory
agencies will have primary responsibility for regulatory reforms,
and the Government will appoint a technical unit in each area to
oversee design and execution of the reforms. The PCU will be
responsible for procuring technical assistance required to support
the regulatory work.
12.     In the light of these responsibilities, the PCU, which will
build on the experience of the Public Enterprise Sector
Restructuring Unit (GARSEE) that implemented the PTAP, will be
staffed with four experienced staff and will be specifically in
charge of: (a) implementing the divestiture program; (b) supporting
capacity building of regulatory institutions; (c) managing PE labor
issues and retrenchment program; (d) monitoring Project progress;
and (e) supervising the setting up of the financial and accounting
organization, monitoring budget preparation and timely delivery of
audits. It will contract out to external consultants both the
preparatory work for large privatization operations, and the design
and implementation of the communication campaign.
13.     The PCU will also be responsible for pursuing agreements with
the beneficiaries of technical assistance, notably the PEs and
regulatory institutions, on the scope of the proposed TA, terms of
reference, ensuring appropriate internalization by stakeholders and
beneficiary participation in the assignment, identifying consulting
services, procuring technical assistance, auditing of contracts, as
well as necessary reporting requirements to GOCV and IDA. The PCU
would be advised by an Advisory Committee, which would include
senior officials from Government, regulatory institutions and
private sector. This Committee will provide strategic guidance to
the PCU, improve communication, and minimize overlaps between
regulatory agencies. It will also initiate policy debates and
arm's-length relationships between Government, utility operators,
- 4 -



and consumer representatives, particularly on regulatory issues.
14.     Lessons from Previous Bank/IDA Involvement.   The experience
with TA operations in Cape Verde has been positive in recent years,
and they remain relevant for developing local capabilities. Past
experiences in Cape Verde and elsewhere indicate: the need for
proper coordination between beneficiary entities (hence the creation
of an Advisory Committee); the need for a strong privatization
implementing agency (hence the establishment of project execution
responsibilities in a PCU that is already operational and is located
in a central Ministry that has a good track record of designing and
managing projects of this kind and that can supply high-level
support); the need for development of policy and regulatory
arrangements prior to privatization; the need for monitorable,
quantifiable and time-bound benchmarks for project execution; and
the need to ensure resources for meeting social obligations stemming
from privatization and labor retrenchment.
15.     Poverty Category.   The Project will directly contribute to
alleviation of poverty insofar as the implementation of labor
retrenchment programs provides adequate temporary income support for
workers who become unemployed. The privatization program, in
coordination with the regulatory framework, is intended to introduce
into previously public enterprises new private owners who can
invigorate the business, improve productivity of assets and workers
and raise capital for expansion and modernization of the businesses.
In the medium term, the program is therefore expected to help reduce
poverty and raise incomes through the generation of new and more
productive jobs.
16.     Environmental Aspects.   The Project is rated a Category C
project, as there are no major environmental impacts. However, the
project would include: (a) activities to design environmental
policies within overall utility regulation; (b) procedures for
including environmental considerations within bidding for
concessions and other private provision; (c) environmental
evaluations for new concessions and for facilities to be privatized;
and (d) training for staff in environmental issues.
17.     Program Objective Category.   The Project supports IDA's private
sector development and economic management objectives.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW,
Washington DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Telefax:      (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending Week ending
- 5 -



February 13, 1998.
- 6-



