                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 32656

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (PPFI-Q0900 IDA-31210)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$9.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                        TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

                                        FOR A

            PRIVATIZATION AND REGULATORY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT




                                      June 16, 2005




Private Sector and Finance
Africa Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective )

                             Currency Unit = Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
                                    US$ 1 = 85 ECV
                                  September 2004
                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1-    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARCA VERDE      Companhia Nacional de A'avegacdo Arca Verde
                (National Maritime Company)
ASA             Empresa Nacional de Aeroportos e Seguran,a Aerea
                (National Companv for Airports/Air Traffic Safety)
BCA             Banco Comercial do Atlantico
                Atlantic Commercial Bank)
CABMAR/CABNAVE  Shipyard and Assets Management Companies
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
CVT             Cabo Verde Telecom (Cape Verde Telecom)
ELECTRA         Empresa Publica de Electricidade e Agua
                (Public Company for Electricity and Water)
EMPA            Empresa Puiblica de Abastecimento
                (Public Procurement Company)
EMPROFAC        Empresa Nacional de Produtos Farmaceuticos
                (National Company for Pharmaceutical Products)
ENACOL          Empresa Nacional de Combustiveis
                (National Company for Fuels and Lubricants)
ENAPOR          Empresa Nacional de Administraqdo dos Portos
                (National Company for Port Administration)
ERSO            Economic Reforms Support Operation
GARSEE          Gabinete de Apoio ia Reestruturaqdo do Sector
                Empresarial do Estado(PTAP Implementing Unit)
IBRD            International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICAO            International Civil Aviation Organization
IDA             International Development Association
INTERBASE       Empresa de Comercializa,do de Produtos do Mar
                (Fisheries Marketing Enterprise)
PCU             Project Coordinating Unit
PE              Public Enterprise
PTAP            Privatization and Technical Assistance Project
SOE             State Owned Enterprise
TACV            Transportes Aereos de Cabo Verde(Cape Verde Airlines)
TRANSCOR        Empresa de Transportes Rodoviarios de Passageiros
                (Urban Passenger Transport Company)

                            Vice President:   Gobind T. Nankani
                         Country Director     Madani M. Tall
                          Sector Manager      Demba Ba
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Sherri Allen Archondo

                                        CAPE VERDE
                    CAPE VERDE - PRIVATIZATION TA PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             32
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42

Project ID: P055467                                                  Project Name: CAPE VERDE - PRIVATIZATION TA
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Ganesh Rasagam                                          TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 19, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: CAPE VERDE - PRIVATIZATION TA                            L/C/TF Number: PPFI-Q0900; IDA-31210
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: CAPE VERDE                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (96%); Other social services
                            (4%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P); Debt management and fiscal
                            substainability (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/04/1998                                     Effective: 12/10/1998                12/08/1998
     Appraisal: 05/20/1998                                         MTR: 12/15/2000                  06/11/2001
      Approval: 07/21/1998                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE/Office of the Vice Prime Minister
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       Thomas W. Allen
Team Leader at ICR:             Sherri Ellen Archondo                          Jean-Michel N. Happi
ICR Primary Author:             Ganesh Rasagam


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context
The Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project (PRCBP) was designed as a follow
up operation to the Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PTAP) which OED rated as
satisfactory, likely to be sustainable and with substantial institutional impact. The PTAP
(1992-1997) supported the Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) public enterprise (PE) reform
program, which succeeded in reducing the PE portfolio from over 50 to 30, creating 41 new fully
private enterprises and twice as many jobs lost in the process as well improving the overall
performance of the remaining PEs. The private sector emerged as the main vehicle for growth and
employment with the redefinition of Government's role in the economy. The PRCBP supported
the second generation, more complex divestitures especially in the utilities and transport sector,
through strengthening the policy and regulatory frameworks and institutional capacity. The
Technical Assistance (TA) under the Project was within the overall framework of the parallel
Economic Reform Support Operation (ERSO) adjustment operation which aimed to restore
macroeconomic stability and consolidate private sector development reforms. The Structural
Adjustment Credit (SAC) of 2001-2003 (which was rated highly satisfactory with substantial
institutional impact) and the parallel IMF Poverty Reduction Growth Facility (PRGF), under a
Staff Monitored Program, also supported and mutually reinforced the implementation of the
PRCBP.

Project Development Objective (PDO)
The PDO was "to support GOCV efforts to alleviate poverty through the achievement of a
higher, private sector-based economic growth". This was to be achieved "through (a) the
transfer to the private sector of productive assets owned by the GOCV in various economic
sectors, including utilities, transport, manufacturing and services; (b) the establishment of an
effective regulatory framework conducive to private sector investment; and (c) the establishment
of an appropriate institutional framework for the implementation of the divestiture program".

This PDO is directly consistent with the then CAS as well as the current CAS (January 2005)
pillars on ensuring macroeconomic stability and supporting private-sector led growth through an
enhanced investment climate and increased competitiveness through public-private partnerships in
infrastructure. It is also aligned with GOCV development priorities (as outlined in the Growth and
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2004-2007) of economic growth through sound and
sustainable private sector development and expanding transport and utilities infrastructure through
public-private partnerships. The PDO was realistic based on the demonstrated commitment and
capacity of the government to undertake PE reform under the earlier PTAP. The overall relevance
of the PDO is therefore rated as high.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had three main components: (a)an accelerated privatization program (cost
US$4.02 million) which provided TA to design and implement the divestiture of 30 enterprises,



                                               - 2 -

retrenchment plans for PE staff and a communications campaign (b)a consolidated regulatory
framework (cost US$4.47 million) which provided TA and training to consolidate the regulatory
framework for telecommunications, civil aviation, maritime transport, urban transport,
pharmaceuticals, consumer product quality control and standards including the establishment of
regulatory arrangements and institutions and the provision of equipment, and (c)project
coordination (cost US$1.51 million) which provided TA to strengthen the Project Coordination
Unit as well as training and equipment.

The choice of the components and sub-components was clearly linked to achieving the
development objective as well as solidly based on the lessons learned from the PTAP. The project
activities pertaining to improving the regulatory framework and institutional capacity in each of
the sub-sectors responsed to the gaps in sector policy, regulation and institutional capacity
identified in the implementation of the PE reform under PTAP. In addition the project design
incorporated lessons learned from other Bank supported privatization programs including
addressing the need for (i) efficient policy and regulatory frameworks prior to the privatization of
public utilities, (ii)availability of resources to address financial and social costs of reform, (iii)a
strong privatization implementing agency with appropriate skills and authority, (iv) quantifiable
and time-bound benchmarks to monitor implementation progress, and (v) a high level Advisory
Committee to ensure coordination amongst beneficiaries.
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not changed during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry (QAE) is rated satisfactory as (i) the project was designed in response to
government's request to sustain the PE reform agenda through strengthening institutional capacity
and the regulatory framework, (ii) the PDO was consistent with the then CAS pillars and
complemented the ERSO adjustment operations, and (iii) the project design addressed the
weaknesses identified from the experience of the PTAP, incorporating the expertise available in
the Public Enterprise Sector Restructuring Unit (GARSEE). The Logical Framework of the
project was rated by OED as best practice at the time of project preparation. With hindsight, the
project design could have (i) a sharper articulation of the PDO and fewer and simpler key
performance indicators clearly distinguishing outcome and output indicators, (ii) more realism in
assessment of the political risks and government's strategic concerns associated with privatization
of the ports and national airline in a small, island economy, and (iii) placed greater emphasis on
the composition, mandate and accountability of the Advisory Committee to ensure effective
inter-ministerial coordination and political consensus.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is marginally satisfactory. The higher-level objective of
alleviating poverty through the achievement of a higher, private sector-based economic growth
was achieved as the GDP grew at an average 5.5 percent in 1998-2004 (compared to the targeted
4 percent in the PAD). Private sector development has been impressive as the overall private
investment increased from 7.8 percent of GDP in 1998 to 11 percent in 2004 (close to the
targeted 12 percent at project closure). Absolute poverty levels declined from 49 per cent in 1988
to 32 percent in 2002 (although relative poverty and income inequality have increased).


                                                   - 3 -

The achievement of the specific objective of transfer to the private sector of productive assets
owned by the GOCV in various economic sectors, including utilities, transport, manufacturing and
services is rated marginally satisfactory. The PE portfolio decreased from 30 enterprises in 1997
to 6 at project closing in December 2004 (and effectively 4 at the time of the ICR in May 2005
which meets the key performance indicator of less than 5 PEs remaining). A range of enterprises
in the financial services, manufacturing, transport and distribution services sectors were
successfully divested. The notable satisfactory project outcomes include:
l Positive fiscal impact: The GOCV reports total fiscal revenue of US$120 million from the
   sales of shares and assets of the PEs divested during the project (as at April 2005) of which
   the net proceeds were about US$72 million (at April 2005 rate of 80 CVE/USD). The receipts
   from privatization exceed the combined costs of labor retrenchment, financial restructuring
   and technical assistance and are close to the PAD estimate of US$80 million. Reduction in
   subsidies and other (indirect) transfers to loss-making enterprises (except for Cape Verde
   Airlines, TACV) has led to about US$8 million annual savings. There is evidence of growth in
   fiscal revenues from corporate tax payments (US$23 million net of tax exemptions) while
   reducing tax arrears to a historical low, dividends from shareholdings (US$10 million received
   by the Treasury), taxes on dividends paid to shareholders (US$2 million) and concession fees
   (US$12 million). Government's outlays for infrastructure and utility projects have also
   decreased.
l Improved enterprise performance: Overall, all the privatized enterprises maintained positive
   cash flows and earnings. Performance analysis of a cross-section sample of 12 privatized
   enterprises reveals increases in sales revenue, profits, tax payments, productivity, average
   salaries and value-added. There have been significant positive outcomes in terms of private
   investments and service delivery in key sectors. The divestiture of the urban passenger
   transport company (TRANSCOR) was highly satisfactory as private operators (including
   former employees) have stepped in to provide adequate services in terms of quality, frequency
   and reliability without state subsidies. In general, there is evidence of increased competition in
   all sectors resulting in market-determined pricing and supply as well as new competitive
   behavior by privatized enterprises with likely factor cost savings and consumer surplus.
l Increased private participation in infrastructure: There is increased private sector
   participation in the utilities and transport sectors as measured by (i)concessions awarded for
   value-added services in telecommunications (cable TV) to two new operators, (ii)a strategic
   partner (EDP/ADP) which owns 51 percent of ELECTRA (power, water and sanitation firm),
   and (iii)successful completion of the divestiture of TRANSCOR, meeting three out of the four
   key performance indicators (the concession for the port is still pending).
l Improved access to utilities: There have been improvements in access in the provision of
   electricity, water and sanitation (however quality and cost issues remain due to problems with
   ELECTRA). Between 1999 (before divestiture) and 2004, the number of customers for
   electricity and water more than doubled. Electricity production by ELECTRA increased by
   120 percent while water production increased by 130 percent. Water distribution networks
   have been significantly extended to un-served neighborhoods. In secondary centers, access to
   piped water has also increased as a result of rehabilitation/extension works and social
   connections programs (in one case, Tarrafal, 80 percent of the population now have access to
   improved water services). Connections to the sanitation network have also increased in Praia.



                                                 - 4 -

    Tele-density has improved by 44 percent, waiting lists have dropped significantly and a new
    service connection can now be obtained within two weeks.
l Positive impacts on the labor market: Based on feedback from workers and labor leaders,
    there is a positive impact on the labor market with improved working conditions and labor
    relations in the private sector. There have been no adverse effects on employment and even
    some positive growth, the mitigation measures on retrenchment have been successfully
    implemented and former public sector workers have displayed resourcefulness and
    entrepreneurship in participating in the emerging market economy.

Despite these significant achievements, the divestiture program experienced some serious setbacks
especially in the transport sector. The divestitures of the port (ENAPOR), the Shipyard Assets
and Management Company (CABNAVE) and Cape Verde Airlines (TACV) were not completed,
despite two project extensions, and this has affected the cost, quality and efficiency of transport
services and overall economic competitiveness while contributing to contingent fiscal liabilities.
Direct subsidies to ENAPOR and CABNAVE have ceased (ENAPOR published accounts show
that it has been breaking even or making slight profits in recent years). The GOCV absorbed its
long term debt in early 2000 (figures unavailable). In the case of CABNAVE, there are likely to
be indirect subsidies in terms of non-payment of social taxes and contributions. TACV continues
to enjoy significant GOCV support in terms of both direct and indirect subventions (figures
unavailable) including absorption of earlier losses. TACV embarked on a failed expansion policy
to capture the regional market share, in the wake of the collapse of Air Afrique, which led to
losses of about US$14 million. The National Company for Pharmaceutical Products
(EMPROFAC), although profitable, operates as a state monopoly in an inefficient and poorly
regulated market, resulting in high price subsidies for pharmaceutical products. The privatization
of ELECTRA (not under this project but under the Water and Energy Sector Reform and
Development Project) was unsatisfactory and was carried out in a regulatory vacuum. Unresolved
issues between the GOCV and the strategic partners over recapitalization, payment arrears and
tariff adjustments have delayed ELECTRA's investment plans which is affecting the quality of
services. The price of water has increased by 25-30 per cent after privatization contrary to
expectations. This has led to increasing consumer dissatisfaction with not only ELECTRA but the
overall privatization program.

The achievement of the specific objective of the establishment of an effective regulatory and
institutional framework conducive to private sector investment was marginally satisfactory. The
successful regulatory outcomes include:
l Adoption of the Framework Law on Regulatory Agencies, which paved the way for the
    establishment of ARE in 2003 as the multi-sector regulator for telecommunications, water,
    electricity, urban passenger transport and maritime passenger transport. ARE is operational
    and successfully engaged in dealing with tariff issues in urban transport, energy, electricity and
    water.
l Adoption of Civil Aviation regulations which led to the establishment of the Civil Aviation
    Authority which is functioning very well (Cape Verde has obtained Category 1 certification by
    the US FAA which has opened up new air routes to the US)
l Amendment of the 1994 Telecommunications Law introducing regulations for interconnection
    in 2004 which has paved the way for new entrants in the previously closed market



                                                - 5 -

l Adoption of regulations on urban transport and the recent creation of a Road Institute for
    road management which has allowed increased competition and efficiency in the urban
    transport sector
l Adoption of a law on minimum subsidies for non-performing routes for inter-island maritime
    services which allows for private operators to provide services.

However, these successes are blemished by a number of limitations which have weakened the
regulatory framework:
l The failure of the first attempt at establishing a multi sector regulator (ARM) and the almost
    four year delay in finally establishing ARE (separating economic and technical regulation)
    resulted in a regulatory vacuum in the electricity and telecommunications sectors and
    contributed to the current problems plaguing the sector. This has particularly affected
    ELECTRA's financial sustainability and investment plans as there was no regulatory
    mechanism in place for agreed tariff adjustments (negotiations with the GOCV are on-going
    facilitated by a third party arbitrator).
l The Framework Law permitted the establishment of sector technical regulatory bodies which
    was contrary to the agreed position with the Bank (as in the Letter of Sector Development
    Policy, June 1998 and aide-memoires of supervision missions). This has contributed to the
    establishment of several sector regulatory institutions (such as in telecommunications and
    maritime transport) that potentially could hamper fiscal sustainability and weaken the
    effectiveness of ARE.
l International telecommunications rates remain uncompetitive and the regulatory framework
    especially for interconnection is not attractive for new investors; for example 18 firms
    expressed interest in the bid for a second mobile service operator but none participated due to
    concerns over the incumbent operator's exclusivity on international circuits.
l The delay in enacting legislation to establish the Pharmaceuticals, Food and Quality Control
    Regulatory Agency (ARFA) has hindered the divestiture of EMPROFAC with consequent
    market and price distortions.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Accelerated Privatization Program (US$4.84 million actual, US$4.02 million appraisal
estimate): this component is rated marginally satisfactory. The sale of shares and/or assets in 24
PEs (out of the targeted 28 PEs) was completed satisfactorily and performance contracts have
been signed for the postal services and the airport management company. Retrenchment plans
have been fully implemented with more than 1,000 workers retrenched with their end-of-service
benefits totaling US$26 million (at April 2005 rate of 80 CVE/USD) paid from GOCV resources,
the SAC and privatization proceeds. The actual retrenchment payments were much higher than
the appraisal estimate of US$10 million. The significant difference was due to higher than
anticipated amounts including in some cases (such as EMPA) payouts were much higher than the
stipulations under labor regulations. The planned multi-media communication campaigns on
privatization programs were successfully implemented including sensitization of workers and
trade unions. All state subsidies to loss-making PEs have been eliminated (except for TACV) and
the proceeds from divestiture (about US$80 million) have been mostly transferred to the Treasury
(there were allegations of impropriety over the transfer of proceeds such as from the sale of a 65
percent stake in ENACOL but the GOCV investigations were inconclusive).



                                                  - 6 -

The divestiture plans for the port, airline, shipyard and pharmaceutical enterprises are delayed
considerably. However efforts are underway to complete them by 2006 at the earliest as follows:
l ENAPOR: Cape Verde's unique geographical attributes poses complex challenges in
    addressing the requirements of 9 scattered ports of varying sizes. GOCV wanted a more
    flexible bid that would allow options for both single or multiple operators while the
    Transaction Advisor recommended bidding for a single operator. This impasse was
    compounded by the lack of a regulatory framework (the international consulting firm
    appointed for this task went out of business midway through the assignment and the Port
    Transaction Advisor was asked to take on this responsibility). There were also serious
    communication problems between the PCU/GOCV and the Transaction Advisor which
    delayed the process considerably. The process is underway now (the Information
    Memorandum and Technical Analysis have been approved and the Port and Maritime Institute
    has been established to perform both technical and economic regulation). Outstanding
    pre-privatization measures include the formulation of the regulatory framework and
    establishment of the Port Authority.
l TACV: The dialogue on divestiture/restructuring of the airline has been on-going since 1999
    and the GOCV even signed a decree for the action plan in 2002. However, the lack of
    decisive action and control over TACV management has delayed the process and the total
    accumulated burden on GOCV resources could further increase. GOCV adopted a
    restructuring plan in 2003 after the failed route expansion venture, managed to stem losses
    and agreed to put in place an international management contract in 2004 with a view to
    eventual privatization. Unfortunately, this process has been again delayed due to
    miscommunication between the PCU and the Bank team over the selection process of the
    international management team. This is being resolved and the management team is expected
    to be in place after the selection is finalized.
l EMPROFAC: The divestiture could not take place due to the prolonged delay in setting up a
    regulatory framework and regulator (ARFA). The valuation is completed and a privatization
    strategy and draft bidding documents are being reviewed by GOCV. The transaction involves
    sale of EMPROFAC equity in a pharmaceutical firm (INPHARMA) and also requires setting
    up an independent quality control laboratory. This transaction is likely to be completed by
    2006 at the earliest.
l CABNAVE: The divestiture of the shipyard is back on track again and the privatization
    strategy has been approved by GOCV. The finalization of the IM and Technical Analysis is
    pending and the transaction is scheduled for completion by the end of 2005.

Consolidated Regulatory Framework (US$2.78 million actual, cost US$4.47 million): this
component is rated marginally satisfactory. The Civil Aviation Agency was created and is
successfully implementing the Civil Aviation Code in compliance with ICAO regulations. A
workshop on utility regulation was held in Praia in October 2002 and more than 25 persons have
been trained in regulation. Liberalization of the maritime and urban transport sectors is well in
progress. ARE has partnered with Brazilian energy and transport regulators and is in the process
of joining the African Fora for Utility Regulators (AFUR). Cape Verde also became a member of
INFRAREG, an international regulatory network, in 1999. However, achievement in other critical
areas was limited:
l New sector legislation was enacted for establishing ARE as the multi-sector economic



                                                   - 7 -

    regulator. However, a number of sector regulatory structures have been established and there
    are overlapping areas of jurisdiction with ARE. This has affected the capability of ARE to
    regulate key sectors such as telecommunications where the Institute for Telecommunications
    and Information Technology (ICTI) appears to have both economic and technical regulation
    authority and is permitted to collect regulatory fees from the operator.
l Legislation allowing interconnection was enacted in March 2004 allowing effective
    competition in value-added services and bids were launched. However the regulations are
    inadequate to attract new entrants to the market and promote greater competition in the
    sector.
l Action on establishing the regulator for pharmaceuticals and food (ARFA) has been delayed
    by over 3 years despite completion of all relevant studies.

Project coordination (US$1.71 million actual, cost US$1.51 million): Project coordination is
rated marginally satisfactory. The Project Coordination Unit adopted the divestiture action
plans approved by the GOCV and the Bank. Transparency of privatization transactions was
assured by the publication of all privatization decrees in the Official Gazette. There were no
significant procurement nor financial management issues in the project. However the performance
of the PCU in monitoring and reporting was inconsistent especially when there were changes in
key staff (the Project Coordinator was replaced five times during the project). Over the period
2001-2002, the PCU loss experienced staff previously from GARSEE (who had successfully
implemented the PTAP). Further organizational restructuring including salary adjustments
resulted in the departure of experienced technical staff and affected staff morale which affected
project implementation and resulted in the downgrading of the project to unsatisfactory in 2002.
Project coordination improved significantly during the last 6 months of the project in 2004 with
the appointment of a new Coordinator.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
This is not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
This is not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall the project's institutional development impact is rated as substantial. The project saw the
adoption of new sector regulations and the establishment of a new multi-sector regulatory agency
(ARE). Key positions in ARE have been filled (there are 8 technical staff in place) and it was
successful in instituting tariff regulatory decisions for the urban transport sector in August 2004 in
the face of opposition from the Directorate of Transport. ARE has also successfully developed an
Economic and Financial Model and bylaws for the tariff revision process of ELECTRA. The new
Civil Aviation Agency is functioning effectively and an air transport regulatory framework is in
place. A potential adverse institutional impact is the creation of sector regulatory structures which
has introduced fragmentation and role ambiguity. The overlapping functions and authority need to
be resolved for the development of an efficient regulatory framework.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:



                                                     - 8 -

The Cape Verdean economy experienced serious macroeconomic imbalances in 1999 and 2000
due primarily to external shock induced by a rise in the world market price for oil. The fiscal
deficit increased from 11 percent of GDP in 1999 to 18.9 percent in 2000 partly as a result of fuel
price subsidies as well as special outlays for food security due to the drought in 1999. These
macroeconomic concerns affected the capacity of the GOCV to provide adequate counterpart
funding to absorb the additional burden of retrenchment payments which led to significant delays
in the divestiture program. The lack of initial public response to the sale of minority shares in the
PEs also affected the expected proceeds from divestiture. The implementation of the regulatory
component was adversely affected when the consulting firm providing technical assistance went
out of business mid-way without completing the assignment.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
At least four years and considerable resources were spent in the process of establishing and
subsequently dissolving the first multi-sector regulatory agency (ARM) with serious consequences
on the regulation of the utilities sector. This was a period of missed opportunity to introduce
interim regulatory arrangements such as contract regulation. Project implementation was delayed
significantly by the electoral process in 2000/2001 and the project mid-term review was delayed
by a year. The change of Government resulted in delayed decisions, slippages in the divestiture
program and policy reversals which led to the first project downgrading in 2002. The GOCV
could have better managed the restructuring of the PCU in 2001-2002 which adversely affected
project implementation.There appears to have been a certain degree of privatization fatigue at
this juncture given the problems emerging in ELECTRA and the controversy over ENACOL.

The abrupt departure of the Minister of Finance and Planning in October 2003 also delayed
project implementation as he was generally perceived as one of the key drivers of privatization.
The Prime Minister took over the portfolio until April 2004 and during this transition period the
new Project Coordinator had to cope with multiple challenges in keeping the process going (these
circumstances led to the project being downgraded again to unsatisfactory in March 2004).The
GOCV continues to pay a high price for its inability to exercise adequate controls over TACV
management and financial reporting. TACV losses in 2002 from the failed route expansion
strategy affected its divestiture prospects adversely. To its credit, the GOCV introduced a new
management team, after the departure of the then Minister of Transport, which stemmed the
losses. Similarly the creation of sector regulatory institutes appears to have been in response to
political pressure from line Ministries. The GOCV could also have achieved higher standards of
transparency and traceability of privatization receipts in some transactions. The payment of
generous severance benefits to the former employees of EMPA has set a new precedent and
triggered expectations from other current and former employees which could affect the viability of
the remaining transactions.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PCU did occasionally suffer from difficulties in establishing sustained dialogue and bridging
the gap with the relevant Ministers especially during the political transition period. The unit's
effectiveness was at times affected by high staff turnover, insufficient delegation of responsibilities
within and being overwhelmed by activities which were outside the scope of the Project. Besides
managing this project, the PCU was also involved in the preparation and subsequently
implementation of the Growth and Competitiveness Project, management of the PRSC and PRSP



                                                     - 9 -

Trust Funds and the divestiture of enterprises which were outside the scope of the project
(Sonacor, Hotel Atlantico, port of Praia cold storage facility and leasing of 10 industrial fishing
vessels). This could have overstretched the capacity of the PCU which was already teetering from
staff turnover and performance issues. There were also instances (especially involving TACV and
ARE) when communication between the PCU, Government and the Bank was not effective and
the PCU implemented decisions contrary to previously agreed actions with the Bank team. The
failure of previous attempts to divest ARCA VERDE and INTERBASE was largely attributed to
complex pre-qualification processes, unrealistic valuations and limited advertising which were
factors which the PCU could have managed better.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The completion cost for the project was US$9.87 million, close to the appraisal estimate of
US$10.0 million. The IDA contribution of US$9.0 million was nearly fully disbursed (only
US$227,054 remains undisbursed). Actual operating costs were 29 percent lower than budgeted
while the costs of consultancy services/studies/etc differed by less than 2 percent from the budget
allocation. The G&CP project is supporting the costs for consulting services for the remaining
transactions. The Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) provided US$5 million to finance part of
the retrenchment costs for EMPA and TRANSCOR which considerably helped project
implementation.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely. The technical preparations and processes on the remaining
divestitures are well underway and are being supported by the G&CP. The objective of the G&CP
is to broaden the base of private participation and enhance private sector competitiveness. The
GOCV is very unlikely to reverse its policy on divestiture as there is a strong degree of ownership
of sound and sustainable private sector-led growth in its current Growth and Poverty Reduction
Strategy. The tangible benefits of enhanced economic competitiveness including more efficient
markets and improved service delivery have convinced the GOCV to embark on a strategy of
private-public partnerships to expand networks. The GOCV has also agreed to re-negotiate
exclusivity covenants with CV TELECOM which indicates commitment to market liberalization.
From the perspective of private sector development, these efforts indicate policy sustainability.
The most serious risk to sustainability is the failure of the current negotiations between the
strategic partners of ELECTRA and the GOCV. Given the public dissatisfaction over quality of
services and the impending elections in 2006, GOCV would come under great pressure to resolve
the situation. The availability of adequate financing for the completion of the airline and port
privatization will also have a bearing on sustainability. Attention should also be paid to the
increasing ownership of shares in privatized enterprises by the government-owned social
insurance and pension fund (INPS) which poses risks of creeping public sector ownership.

The GOCV has recently appointed a Task Force for Consolidation of Regulation to resolve the
institutional overlap between ARE and ICTI and the PMI respectively, separating technical and
economic regulatory functions. ARE is involved in providing technical support on the
negotiations between the GOCV and ELECTRA and initiatives to strengthen its technical
capacity and regulatory role are underway through the appointment of Technical Advisors.



                                               - 10 -

Institutional sustainability is therefore promising.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Under the G&CP, there is a component on post privatization and divestiture reforms which is
supporting the outstanding privatization and regulatory capacity building efforts. The focus of this
component will be to continue strengthening the regulatory system by capitalizing on the
achievements of the PRCBP. The G&CP is also implemented by the same PCU and there is
seamless continuity in the implementation of the divestiture action plans and regulatory
framework.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's lending performance is rated satisfactory. The project development objectives and
strategic context were directly consistent with the CAS pillars and the GOCV objectives of fiscal
balance and macroeconomic stability (at the time of project preparation). The project was also
designed to support the implementation of the companion Economic Reforms Support Operations
(ERSO) adjustment operation and facilitate achievement of PE reforms which were conditions of
tranche release. Moreover, the project design complemented and supported parallel Bank
operations including activities in the financial sector (Capacity Building Project for Private Sector
Promotion) by supporting the divestiture of banks and insurance companies, divestiture and
regulatory reform in the maritime transport sector (Transport and Infrastructure Project) as well
as the privatization of ELECTRA (Water and Energy Sector Reform and Development Project).
There was a high degree of GOCV ownership of the project as the privatization program was
included in the National Development Plan (1997-2000), was discussed with stakeholders and
widely publicized. Further evidence of GOCV commitment and readiness of implementation was
the early establishment of the PCU and hiring of key staff at the time of project appraisal. The
project design addressed the social safety net issues arising from retrenchment by including
support for the design of training, re-deployment and worker ownership schemes. Environmental
safeguards issues were well addressed through support for integration of environmental and
economic policies in utility regulation, inclusion of standard procedures on environmental
components in bidding documents and environmental evaluation of new concessions/audits of
existing facilities to be divested.

7.2 Supervision:
 The Banks supervision performance is rated satisfactory. There were a total of 8 missions
between February 1999 and October 2004. Missions were timely and adequately staffed
(including sector specialists on transport, telecommunications and utility regulation). Despite the
five changes in Task Team Leader (TTL), overlapping missions between TTLs and a PSD team
approach (with the continued involvement of a PSD anchor) minimized disruptions. The Bank
responded promptly to implementation issues through for example providing retrenchment
financing through the SAC to expedite the divestiture of TRANSCOR and EMPA. The Bank
team complied with all fiduciary and safeguards aspects of the project. Monitoring and evaluation
was comprehensive and project milestones and development outcomes were well documented in
detail in the aide memoirs and PSRs. The Bank also took into account the difficult political
economy aspects of the privatization program and demonstrated flexibility and agreed to extend



                                                  - 11 -

the project closing date to allow completion of key activities. With the benefit of hindsight, the
Bank team could perhaps have demonstrated some flexibility in resolving the impasse over the
separation of technical and economic regulation and the strategy for port privatization. The Bank
team also did not intervene in the prolonged dispute between the GOCV/PCU and the port
Transaction Advisor which stalled the privatization process considerably. The justification for the
second project extension (in 2004) is not very convincing. The position of Finance Minister was
not filled between October 2003 and April 2004, little was achieved (the project was downgraded
to unsatisfactory in March 2004) and the G&CP was already supporting privatization. The Bank
team could also have managed better the communications with the PCU over the appointment of
the international management team for the TACV.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
GOCV performance in project preparation is rated as satisfactory. GOCV participated actively in
project preparation and ensured adequate arrangements were in place to kick start project
implementation including organizing two in-country workshops on regulation which were well
received by over 80 stakeholders, a seminar on labor retrenchment which helped build consensus
on separation and redeployment schemes, participation of nine key regulatory officials in training
programs on regulation and participation of key PCU staff in two privatization training courses
overseas. Line ministries of PEs and regulatory agencies were involved at the outset in project
design. However more attention could have been given to the appointment and functioning of the
Project Advisory Committee.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
GOCV implementation performance is rated as marginally satisfactory. Overall, GOCV did not
deviate from the overall reform agenda despite the serious macroeconomic and political
challenges and mostly responded adequately to PCU performance issues raised by the Bank team.
Implementation was delayed due to the lack of counterpart funding for retrenchment benefits as
well as over generous payments in settling costs of severance. A change of government in 2001
resulted in policy reversals and delayed decisions which affected the divestiture of key PEs. The
manner in which the GOCV handled the establishment of multiple regulators vis-à-vis ARE
(contrary to the Letter of Sector Policy of June 1998 and agreed decisions in aide memoires) was
unsatisfactory. The GOCV was also unable to exercise sufficient control over TACV and
implement the agreed divestiture program. It also did not provide adequate information to the
PCU and the Bank team on TACV operations (such as the failed route expansion plans) with
resulting consequences on its divestiture. GOCV performance in managing the privatization
receipts could also have been more transparent and accountable.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementation agency performance is also rated as marginally satisfactory. The overall PCU
performance in monitoring, evaluating and reporting was adequate but uneven due to the high
staff turnover. PCU performance was rated highly satisfactory once but was downgraded to
unsatisfactory three times during periods of management transition. The delays in the project
implementation and policy reversals were generally outside the control of the PCU. There was no


                                               - 12 -

major procurement or financial management issues. The PCU could have played a more active
role in monitoring the TACV transaction especially in flagging and mitigating the conflict of
interest when the consultant advising the GOCV on divestiture was simultaneously providing
contrary advice to TACV on route expansion plans (which subsequently led to huge losses).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is marginally satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The lessons learned from this project include:
·       Addressing political risks associated with privatization of key infrastructure assets:
The difficulties associated with the divestiture of TACV and ENAPOR basically reflect the
political sensitivities of the GOCV in managing strategic infrastructure assets. The unique
socio-political arrangements governing the relationships amongst the different islands and
concerns over centralization of control over nine ports were factors that affected the process. In
the case of TACV, besides the element of a national flag carrier, the GOCV was also concerned
about providing adequate inter-island air services and meeting the social objective of linking the
Cape Verdean diaspora. The political risks for the Government in carrying out these divestments
need to be better understood and addressed especially in a small, island economy. Options would
include innovative public-private partnerships through a gradual process which would take time
and involve learning from the experience of other countries, wide consultations and consensus
building.

·       Greater appreciation for portability of regulations: Governments need to be made
aware of the availability of internationally accepted regulations on transport, utilities, banking and
other services. In this project, the GOCV decided to design Cape Verde specific civil aviation
regulations, based on a hybrid of EU and US regulations, at considerable cost (15 percent of the
Credit) and time. It could have adopted EU regulations (with suitable modifications to reflect
Cape Verde conditions) at a fraction of the cost and time as these were readily available (and in
Portuguese too). The Bank may wish to consider placing the information on regulatory
frameworks and regulations on the Intranet with relevant information on intellectual property
rights and responsible international bodies.

·       Readiness assessment of project implementation units to manage multiple projects:
There are considerable benefits from having the same PIU manage different Bank projects,
especially in a small country. Sharing the same financial management and procurement resources,
office facilities and project management team brings continuity and stability to Bank-Government
relationships from one project to another. However, in the case of a PIU that is facing staffing and
performance difficulties, a systematic assessment is required during new project preparation to
ascertain the readiness and resource requirements of the PIU to take on additional responsibilities.
In this project, the PIU seems to have been overwhelmed by the additional tasks imposed on it
resulting in some of the implementation problems.

·       Realistic assessment of capital markets in small economies: In the absence of a stock
market and an established culture of trading in stocks and shares, the effectiveness of selling



                                                 - 13 -

shares to employees and the public needs to be examined. Public response to shares issued in
Cape Verde was extremely poor which affected the amount of proceeds estimated from
divestiture (and consequently the resources available for retrenchment financing). There was an
unsuccessful attempt to establish a stock exchange in 1999 in an attempt to address the limitations
of the financial system. Due to the limited options, the GOCV's social insurance and pension fund
(INPS) has acquired significant share holdings in privatized enterprises which poses risks of
creeping public sector ownership. Innovative mechanisms are required to enhance the efficiency
and marketing of sales to the public including sensitizing and educating the public and PE
employees on share ownership and effective marketing to (in the case of Cape Verde) the
emigrant population.

·        Merits of sector versus multi-sector regulation: While the benefits of centralizing
regulatory capacity and authority in a single agency seem obvious especially in a small economy,
the challenge of taking away regulatory authority from established line Ministries and the
perceived loss of political power is not always easy for governments to manage effectively. The
newly established multi-sector regulators not only have to struggle with the usual start-up issues
such as staffing, resources, capacity building and establishing their institutional mandate but often
have to contend with sector agencies constantly challenging their role. There is a need to draw
lessons from the experience of establishing regulatory institutions in different countries and
explore the merits of sector versus multi-sector regulation under different conditions.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                             MINISTÉRIO DAS FINANÇAS e PLANEAMENTO

                                         PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT
                       PRIVATIZATION AND REGULAROTY CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
                                            (Credit 3121 - CV)

                               Implementation Completion Report


BACKGROUND:
1.       The Government of the Republic of Cape Verde has a long history of good cooperation and
partnership with the World Bank. The latest in a series of economic development programs designed to
strengthen the competitiveness of our enterprises through private sector governance and market incentives
was completed under the World Bank-supported Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
(IDA Credit 31210).

2.       In consideration of the importance and complexity of reforms supported by this project, and of our
interest in accountability to all stakeholders, the Government has employed the services of an international
consultant experienced with similar programs and institutional arrangements to provide an objective,
independent appraisal of the project results and its implementation framework. Having said that, the
Government of Cape Verde urges the World Bank to integrate this report as it has been presented.

3.       The following report prepared by the consultant and endorsed by the Government balances the
considerable achievements of this project with areas of opportunity to improve the planning and execution
of our joint activities, leading to greater results.


                                                      - 14 -

I.       INTRODUCTION:
4.       The Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project (PRCBP) was approved by the World
Bank directors in July 1998 and became effective in December 1998, with a closing date of December
2002. Following two extensions, in 2002 and 2003, the project was closed in December 2004 having
successfully completed the majority of its tasks and achieved irreversible progress in completion of the
remaining tasks.

II.      EVALUATION OF PROJECT DESIGN:
5.       The PRCBP was designed to provide technical and institutional support enabling the government to
accelerate and complete the divestiture of remaining enterprises in its shareholding portfolio, while also
equipping it with capacity to regulate the impact of monopolist industries on consumer welfare and
competition policies.

6.       The IDA credit of $9 million and counterpart funds of $1 million were supplemented with
government funding of labor retrenchment and debt restructuring for enterprises to facilitate their
divestiture or closure. An additional IDA-funded Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC) was later adjunct to
the PRCBP to provide support to the fiscal dynamics emerging from the servicing of labor severance and
restructuring costs that preceded the collection of revenues from divestiture.

7.       As a second-generation successor to the 1992-1997 Privatization Technical Assistance Project
(PTAP), the PRCBP supported linkages to an array of Bank operations whose overlapping theme was
proactivity in addressing emerging questions regarding the quality and sustainability of outcomes,
particularly in the industries that were to be regulated. The project was designed to provide compensatory
support targeting regulatory reforms to a higher priority than was afforded before. The failure of
regulatory capacity building to keep pace with the divestiture of public service monopolies (e.g. electric
power, water and sanitation, telecommunications) was similarly reflected in the sequencing of reforms
affecting the financial sector, which may have served to retard its developmental progress. Finally, the
project design also reflected needs to mitigate threats from social resistance to the divestiture and/or
liquidation of enterprises perceived to be of strategic and/or national interest.

III.     DEVELOPMENTAL OBJECTIVES:
8.       The PRCBP supported the government's policy direction, as elaborated in the National
Development Plan (1997-2000) and highlighted in the Letter of Development Policy (1998) to reduce its
active role in the economy and withdraw from the role as guarantor of financial support to commercial
enterprises. The intent of the government in power at the time, as well as of the current government, has
been to transform its mission and shift its resources to the establishment of an effective regulatory and
enabling environment nurturing the forces of market competition and incentives for private investment. The
developmental objectives shaping the design of PRCBP promoted alleviation of poverty in a manner that
would be fiscally accountable, economical, market-economy driven, yet also socially balanced for
maximum distribution effect within the limits of affordability.

9.       In retrospect, although these objectives were to a large extent realized during the PRCBP, some
unfinished work remains that faces tough hurdles, including some of remedial nature, before the entire
program could be considered as fully satisfactory. Details follow below.

IV.      ACCOMPANYING REFORM MEASURES:
10.      Achievement of above developmental objectives necessitated the following components:
         Accelerated Divestiture Program. Divestiture of full or partial government holdings of equity


                                                      - 15 -

and/or assets in at least 25 of the 30 commercial enterprises, including financial institutions and monopolist
public service providers, remaining in the divestiture agenda, through their (a) transformation into
privately-owned, managed and/or recapitalized entities or (b) closure and redeployment of company assets
into more economically justified and value-adding purposes, according to market demand.
        Effective Regulatory Framework. In respect of the developmental objectives concerning social
and consumer welfare as well as the withdrawal of government from managing economic activities of
enterprises, the project also stressed the imperatives of constructing and operationalizing, independent
regulatory institutions that would provide governance oversight and safeguards to consumers and
competition policies
        Strengthening of Project Coordination Capacity. Training and budget support was allocated for
equipping the institution that would execute this procurement-intensive program and to be able to provide
policy-making coordination as well as financial and implementation oversight over socially-sensitive
reforms.

V.      KEY PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND ACHIEVEMENTS:
Component 1: Accelerated Divestiture Program
(a)     Results
11.     This component was predominantly completed, though finalization of some tasks wound up being
delayed beyond the project closure. The initial quick jump start to the project in 1999-2000 gave way to a
two-year period of adjustment 2001-2002, as the coordinating institutions became mired in restructuring of
their own, during a time of political adjustment and public reflection on the social impact of reforms.
While all available energy was deployed to overcome the substantial organizational, intellectual, and
financial challenges in dealing with the demands of multiple stakeholders, the recovery of progress was
hampered by the loss of lessons and institutional memory due to high turnover among both government and
Bank coordinators.

12.     However, the project began to pick up momentum once social resistance to the Government's
voluntary closure and liquidation of large enterprises had subsided. Having facilitated social adjustment
and earned the public's support, the Government renewed its commitment to the project reforms and
embarked on a vigorous drive for results led by a restructured coordination unit in 2003. The project ended
in 2004 with the following results:

Ø       27 enterprises had been fully divested, of which 21 were privatized, 2 placed under private
management under performance contracts, and 4 liquidated (see Table 1 at the end of the report).
Ø       4 remaining enterprises that were not privatized during the life of the project (ENAPOR, TACV,
EMPROFAC, and CABNAVE) are currently in various stages of preparation for privatization and/or
awaiting completion of regulatory readiness expected by late 2005.

The strategy and methods of divestiture for each enterprise were customized in consideration of:
·       its projected viability and valuation when isolated from government protection and subsidies,
·       the desired sectoral reforms needed to unleash growth of competition,
·       expert assessments of anticipated market response to the investment packages to be offered under
various scenarios of pre-privatization unbundling and/or financial retrenchment, including mitigation of
excess labour and indebtedness.

13.     A great deal of domestic and international expertise was deployed to assist the coordination unit in
preparing both the government to enact legislation and the enterprises for divestiture. Training was also
provided to stakeholder individuals and institutions whose contributions were essential to this project, in



                                                     - 16 -

facilitating the dissemination of knowledge and key messages through an effective communications and
marketing campaign, as well as through workshops, conferences, and the media, directed not only at
potential investors but also the domestic public. A particularly important target audience was the
approximately one thousand workers expected to lose jobs as result of company liquidations and
divestiture.

14.       The professionalism and expertise applied during the project, and the interactive communications
with the public, resulted in a generally supportive, positive public attitude toward the reforms and the
government's reduced involvement in the economy. However, there is also some degree of discontent
associated with the divestiture program, mainly due to the governance problems plaguing the enterprise
ELECTRA (the monopoly supplier of electric power and water supply and sanitation), which was divested
before a viable regulatory framework was in place. History will show that this transaction may have been
executed in questionable ways and under unfavourable circumstances, yielding overwhelming costs of
remediation and damage-control. Much can be written and second-guessed at this time, but the
responsibility is certainly shared widely, as are the lessons learned.

(b)       Outcomes
15.       On balance, the overall outcomes from the massive divestiture program have generally been
supportive of the developmental objectives and sustainable, while incompletely successful. The
government has greatly reduced its interventionism in economic flows between enterprises and consumers,
and it no longer feels obliged to subsidize loss-making private enterprises, except for the losses resulting
from compliance with the government's universal service requirements benefiting the remote and
disadvantaged segments of population. However, shortfalls in post-privatization performance and
governance of private utility monopolies (energy and water supply and sanitation, telecoms) as reflected by
high costs of services, as well as by deteriorating reliability of energy and water supply infrastructure, have
disappointed consumers and distorted the objectivity in measuring overall consumer welfare gains.
Moreover, they have escalated politicization of the process already stimulated by concerns over
transparency and social impact.

16.       Positive fiscal payback and financial returns continue to accrue at a compounded rate,
already yielding around $120 million during the PRCBP period, and also helping to pave the way for
completion of privatization of the remaining enterprises.

Ø         The one-off fiscal impact of the divestiture transactions is illustrated in Table 1, which shows that
the receipts from privatization exceed the combined costs of labor retrenchment, financial restructuring and
institutional support (TA and PIU) by approximately $72 million, at exchange rate of 80ECV/USD.
NOTE: The extraordinary, one-time cost to the government of $53.3 million as guarantor of student
loans/scholarships issued by BCA and Caixa Economica is not included in the calculation of debts
assumed, as these charges are highly specific to the two banks, unique in character and have already been
refinanced through Treasury bonds with long maturity periods. Also, the calculations do not incorporate
any contingent liabilities to the government stemming from the dispute with ELECTRA (although it is still
uncertain if any could be attributed to privatization) or from any other litigations by investors (none known
at this time).

Ø         The recurrent fiscal flows illustrated in Table 2 are even more indicative of the sustainability of
positive fiscal impact from this divestiture program, amounting to over $47 million in new revenues since
1998 and, more importantly, they are continuing to accrue at around $8-9 million annually:
·         Over $23 million in corporate tax payments, net of foreign investor tax exemptions, while



                                                      - 17 -

reducing tax arrears to a historical low. The only noteworthy arrears are registered with ENACOL ($4.5
million) and CVC ($700,000). However, neither of these contradicts the overall positive trends. ENACOL
has offsetting claims against the government for $2 million and ELECTRA for $5 million, as does CVC
against the government (for unpaid construction work) in excess of its tax debt.
·        $10.3 million in dividends received by the Treasury
·        $2.4 million in tax revenue on dividends paid to domestic investors (assuming 15 % tax rate)
·        $11.6 million in infrastructure concessions rent (all from CV Telecom)
·        NOTE: The energy and water utility ELECTRA has made no tax payments, no dividends, no
concessions rent. (This company is currently engaged in arbitration to resolve financial disputes with the
government, and is in need of urgent financial rehabilitation).

17.      Fiscal impact is further magnified by the annual savings of around $6-8 million in
government-owned capital that had been consumed through loss-making performance by 4 enterprises,
which the government liquidated during the PRCBP despite the challenges presented by resistant social
lobbies. The government took bold action to voluntarily liquidate these enterprises, paying off all creditors
and labor severance costs through the sale of company assets, which are now redeployed in new ways that
will add value to, rather than subtract value from, the economy.

18.      Significant improvements in enterprise performance and increased value-added to economy.
Increases are evident across the board, in sales revenues, profits, tax payments, productivity, average
salaries, value-added. Table 3 illustrates several key indicators for a cross-sectoral sample of 12
privatized enterprises.

19.      That table shows improvements in the period since privatization, which varies by enterprise.
Another analysis of 10 privatized enterprises, looking at cumulative average performance since 1998
irrespective of the year of privatization, shows increases in: revenues by approximately 77%, profits by
187%, value added by 62% and cash flows by 61%. Some enterprises showed negative cash flows in years
of heavy investment and/or debt reduction (e.g. CV TELECOM, CORREIOS) while keeping high rates of
growth in sales, profits and value-added, but, in general, all the privatized enterprises maintained
positive cash flows and earnings, especially after benefiting from investor-led restructuring (e.g. FAMA,
MOAVE, CVC). Only one enterprise, ELECTRA, showed consistently deteriorating performance in all
categories except cash flow (which is result of increased debts, stopped investments, and reduced payrolls).

20.      Meanwhile, no adverse effects on employment, and even some positive growth noted.
Attribution is traced to the government's application of effective mitigation measures, including: (a)
severance benefits (that were often redeployed to generate new jobs and income), (b) extensive institutional
support provided in terms of labor redeployments services (counseling, training, placement assistance) and
(c) entrepreneurship support backed by access to microfinance. Of particular note is high absorption
record by the emerging market economy (informal sector included), attributable to the triggered
self-initiative and resourcefulness among the more agile and skilled former public sector employees. Of the
almost 1200 workers retrenched, it is estimated that 20% were pensioned off and the remainder absorbed
by new jobs in spin-off and new startup companies (e.g. the drivers and vehicle maintenance personnel
from the liquidations of former public transit monopolies TRANSCOR and SONACOR found jobs in new,
private bus transit companies that are now even larger than the above, or as taxi drivers or vehicle shop
repairmen in the private sector; sailors and boat captains laid off from ARCA VERDE are now in same
jobs with private maritime transport companies; merchants from EMPA are private importers and
distributors, or found informal sector jobs).




                                                     - 18 -

21.      Improved working conditions and labor relations in private sector. Feedback from workers,
underscored by labor syndicate leaders, indicates that workers in the privatized enterprises enjoy greater
confidence and satisfaction with their employment than before, particularly in cases where workers are also
shareholders. Coming reforms in the Labor Code, developed collaboratively with the business and labor
associations will add guarantees of transparency, fair labor practices, and flexibility of benefit to both the
workers as well as to the managers and owners.

22.      Intensified competition is being felt in all sectors (except where inhibited by low market returns
and uneconomical conditions for entry), resulting in market-determined pricing and supply, as well as in
new competitive behaviors exhibited by privatized enterprises irrespective of their ownership structure or
nationality of investors. The few subsidies still provided (for services to economically disadvantaged
clusters of population with inhibited access to market centers), are now awarded on a competitive basis to
bidders from the private sector.

23.      Still challenging, however, is the stimulation of greater competition in the public utility sectors,
particularly in the areas of telecommunications and energy and water supply, where private investors enjoy
monopolistic privileges extended to them at a time when the government lacked qualified advisory support
in negotiating with powerful foreign investors in the absence of regulatory regimes. The existence of high
interconnection fees to privately owned infrastructure has acted to inhibit entry of new operators; however,
it has not dampened interest from other investors (e.g. in mobile phone services). As the government
prepares to renegotiate exclusivity covenants with the monopoly owners in 2005, already two new private
cable network operators have been licensed in anticipation of regulative improvements.

24.      Positive impact on consumers is tainted by dissatisfaction with utility services. Generally,
consumers now face more choices in basic goods and services, and there has been no adverse impact on
prices or availability, both retail, wholesale (e.g. food, clothing, transport, construction) as well as
industrial services and commodities (e.g. maritime transport, metals, construction materials) formerly
provided by government monopolies that were liquidated during this project. The impact on consumers of
recent spikes in cost of imported fuel has been largely mitigated by government policies to absorb these
rather than pass them onto the consumer or private sector.

25.      Overshadowing the generally neutral or positive effects on consumers, however, are the higher
costs of some basic utilities, such as water, as well as increasing shortages in supply of electric power as
well as water and sanitation. Instead of the expected reductions in price of water (as promised in the
privatization contract) prices have increased by up to 25-30%. The supply of electric power is worsening
again after reaching record levels in the early years after divestiture, and its intermittency continues to
impose costs on consumers and businesses, not only in lost productivity and substandard quality of life, but
also in forcing them to invest in contingency measures.

26.      Although the privatized telecoms operator CV TELECOM enterprise has installed the most
modern technological infrastructure to Cape Verde and vastly expanded accessibility, most of its services
are not economically accessible to much of the population. Under private ownership, the tariffs have not
been reduced to reflect any cost efficiencies, and, in fact, there are plans to increase them in 2005, which
may trigger negative consumer reactions. However, positive developments are expected from the
announced arrival of alternate operators awaiting liberalization of concessions agreements, expected in late
2005.
(c)      Sustainability
27.      The divestiture of commercial enterprises and liquidation of former monopolies in the transport and
wholesale distribution sectors has produced outcomes that are positive, irreversible and sustainable.


                                                       - 19 -

Institutional and retail investors now have legitimate claims on property that entitles them to participate in
management control and claim dividends generated by enterprises. No shortage resulted in goods or
services from the liquidations, as substitute suppliers quickly appeared from the private sector. A dynamic
market-clearing environment has been established by which enterprises either survive on their competitive
merits and ability to adjust and restructure as needed, or they find destiny in legally prescribed exit
mechanisms.

28.      Sustainability, however, is highly doubtful in reference to the commercial and legal arrangement
governing the operations of the enterprise ELECTRA. Urgent remediation measures are being applied to
resolve contractual discrepancies and mend shareholder relations needed for recovery.

Component 2: Effective Regulatory Framework
(a)      Results
29.      This component suffered from slow progress in political decision-making and unconvincing actions
due to the uneasiness of government authorities to relinquish key roles to independent bodies in the absence
of full convictions and of confidence in the effectiveness of future institutions to deliver what the ministries
were already legally mandated and equipped to provide (at least, as perceived under the existing
paradigms). However, it would be fair to mention that Cape Verdean authorities are going through a
learning process that requires time and resources to attain the desired regulatory capacity building.

30.      Still, the project achieved a necessary fine-tuning of the configuration of institutional
responsibilities for multi-sectoral regulation. A governmental task force responsible directly to the Prime
Minister has been charged with resolving inter-institutional conflicts and eliminating redundancies. This
effort has produced a stronger, leaner and nearly-fully functional agency (ARE) that is covering several key
sectors, no longer hindered by concerns over authority for competencies with the telecommunications
regulator (ICTI). An additional agency regulating the food and pharmaceutical sectors (ARFA) was legally
constituted and will soon be operational. A Port and Maritime Institute has been legally established and is
being equipped with the resources it will need to provide both technical and economic regulation of
maritime transport. As for regulation of civil aviation, the Civil Aviation Authority is not only fully
functional but it has already helped Cape Verde obtain US FAA Category 1 certification. Significant
strides have been made despite the difficulties, and this component is continuing to progress toward the
ultimate goal.

(b)      Outcomes and Sustainability
31.      Failure to achieve a well-sequenced implementation of regulations in synchronization with
privatization has resulted in continued engagement of government in the economy beyond the policy-setting
function, perhaps even more so than before due to the necessity of resolving problems with investors and
sharing the responsibility for damage-mitigation. However, this turn of events has also served to illuminate
more persuasively the rationale and benefits of having independent regulators, and it has solidified a
broader consensual commitment that may have been lacking. Now that an irreversible set of actions has
already been completed with the granting of legislated powers and guarantees of statutory independence,
and with the more advanced agencies such as ARE and ICTI nearly ascended to the desired levels of
potency, this component has cleared the key political and technical hurdles and is on a sustainable pace for
successful completion and the attainment of expected outcomes.

Component 3: Strengthening of Project Implementation Management Capacity.
(a)      Results
32.      This component was had to overcome significant organizational convulsions mirroring the period
of political adjustment and social consensus building, before achieving the needed stability, consistency and


                                                      - 20 -

robustness, thanks to major reforms in 2003. Preceding capacity was eroded by high turnover resulting
from changed incentive structures during a period of disarray in leadership and direction. Once order was
achieved in the project coordination leadership and staffing, it quickly boosted its resource productivity.
Financial, procurement, and reporting management have achieved full compliance with all Bank
requirements, and have yielded the desired results expected from project coordination.

(b)      Outcomes and Sustainability
33.      The PRCBP implementation coordination unit has continued to strengthen and modernize, and is
now a vital pillar of successor Bank projects, providing a sustainable, competent resource base capable of
supporting future projects for years to come.

VI.      KEY LESSONS LEARNED FROM PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION:
34.      Responsibility for proper governance in privatization is shared by all stakeholders. The rush
to divest undeterred by weak technical safeguards against downstream consequences, contrary to
international best practices, signals the failure of key stakeholders, including the government and World
Bank partners, to exercise due diligence and proactivity at the proper time (both pre- and post-divestiture).
It also signals need for greater policy-making transparency and coordination among overlapping priority
programs (e.g. Energy and Water, telecommunications, etc.)

35.      Building public support for reforms is worth the patience and investment. Our experience
shows that passive acceptance is not enough, as it feeds politicization and slows progress.

36.      Private sector development is yielding the right incentives. Reinforcing this view is the high
level of interest shown by the public to own shares in enterprises. Workers, as well as institutions (there is
a surprisingly high degree of cross-ownership) have become large shareholders driven by both the desire for
dividends and for the chance to be consulted on major management decisions.

37.      Financial sector reform was needed earlier. The interest of private citizens to invest in
enterprises again prompts second-guessing of the sequence of reforms applied, particularly in the
rehabilitation, privatization (and regulation) of the financial sector and capital markets. Earlier attention to
these needs might have created greater synergies with enterprise privatization through greater financial
response, particularly from the diaspora.

38.      Competitiveness is improving but so is competition. Although the enterprise sector is
rehabilitated and showing signs of growing competitiveness (see Second Business Census), the room from
growth in market share of the import-substitution market is constrained by disadvantages in economies of
scale. Equally futuristic appears the potential to develop export markets. More technical assistance is
needed at the sectoral and enterprise level to identify the propellants for growth and trade needed to sustain
the country's macroeconomic improvements.

39.      Foreign investors have strengthened financial leverage. Attribution for improved enterprise
performance (ELECTRA nonwithstanding) indicates that all companies have benefited from better
financial discipline and the new incentives and competitive pressure to change their business model and
revise their operating strategies. The main contribution from foreign investors is not superior management
competence or skills, but greater financial capacity to follow through on investment projects (some of
which had been conceived earlier by local managers who did not have the means to realize them), as well as
in opening windows to new ways of thinking about marketing and use of modern technology.




                                                      - 21 -

40.      Foreign investors lag in delivering best practices. Surprisingly deficient and clannish have been
the styles of management and shareholder relations imported by some foreign investors, which are slow to
exhibit the best practices found in developed market economies that were expected of them, such as
cost-containment focus in administration, internal controls and financial transparency. The managers of
ELECTRA have been struggling for years to develop reliable internal cost models to properly manage the
heterogeneous lines of business (electric power and water supply and sanitation). The management of CV
TELECOM has only now, some 10 yrs after privatization, started instituting a modern cost accounting
system to enable tariff rebalancing. Attempts by corporate governance boards to implement remedies by
replacing poor management or instituting better financial transparency are often blocked, and shareholders
are not always able to exercise their rights. There are also more encouraging success examples, however,
as at CVC (construction company), where foreign directors are being routinely replaced when failing, while
the duties of financial and commercial management have steadily remained in competent authority of local
employees.

41.      Domestic managers compare well with foreign managers. A key lesson learned, therefore, is that
the quality of local managers has shown to be strongly competitive with those imported by foreign
investors. There seems to be greater cost-consciousness among local managers, and greater
entrepreneurship. Foreign managers (though the sample focuses on the Portuguese due to their
disproportionate presence) tend to be stronger in application of technology and use of financial leverage,
though sometimes with costly consequences. However, they seem deficient in modern best practices
available elsewhere in the world economies. An example is their tendency to keep close confidantes and to
highly personalize their positions of authority.

42.      No assurance that foreign investors will provide market-driven governance. The bottom line
question, however futile and retrospective, is analogous to the post-facto second-guessing of the sequencing
and synchronization of certain divestitures. It concerns the real quality of privatization when the dominant
investor comes not from the private sector or with private capital and know-how, but instead from the
public sector of another country, where it may be just as subsidized, politicized, and inept or
non-incentivized to improve efficiencies and controls, as the Cape Verde enterprise that it took over. It
begs the question of where the best practices and drive for innovation would come. Perhaps the eligibility
of investors according to their private sector pedigree should have been more closely scrutinized, as it
is in other countries, and maybe the government policymakers would have benefited from benchmarking of
the international experiences (with Bank assistance?) during the early phases of divestiture.

43.      Policy direction should be clarified to prevent creeping return of government ownership in
enterprises. Divestiture has resulted in significant share holdings being acquired by the government-owned
INPS (social insurance and pension fund) following a lack of alternative financial investments (e.g. absence
of capital market). This situation should be carefully monitored to prevent return of government ownership
in enterprises.

44.      Caution is needed to avoid setting undesirable precedents. Finally, the government's perceived
generosity in settling costs of severance during the liquidation of EMPA should alert the government to the
implications of setting precedent that creates problematic expectations of extended entitlements, if not legal
then moral and/or political. Workers from other liquidated companies are lobbying for equal generosity,
while the EMPA spin-off companies are lobbying for continuation of government guarantees on bank loans
that EMPA enjoyed. So far, the Government's position is to reject any type of guarantees on bank loans
contracted by the private sector.




                                                     - 22 -

VII.     PRINCIPAL FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION:
45.      Slippages in the implementation timeline can be attributed to a combination of factors:
·        Conditions characteristic of a period of political adjustment and government transition, which was
reflected in indecisiveness and institutional disarray
·        Complexity of the remaining enterprise portfolio covered by the PRCBP, consisting of the most
socially-sensitive and strategically important, high-impact cases, repercussions of which were manifested in
a number of ways:

46.      Need to give proper attention to delicate social pressures in order to elicit public support.
Liquidation of large enterprises produced reactions that required considerable attention from all
policymakers and coordinators, in addition to securing financial arrangements acceptable to all
stakeholders. Had these liquidations not succeeded, it is questionable how successful the rest of the
divestiture program would have been, given the social impact and strong labor interests.

47.      Complications arising from poorly administered privatization of utility infrastructure. As
evidenced later by the deteriorating performance of the company ELECTRA, the negotiated privatization
arrangements with the more legally astute and experienced foreign investors (e.g. ELECTRA), without the
government benefiting from sound technical command of issues to be negotiated, now need to be revised.
This resulted in costly remediation and damage-control energies expended by the numerous stakeholders,
including addressing the public's bitterness that threatened their trust in public officials responsible for
privatization. All this complicated the project environment and caused difficulty in moving forward.

48.      Subsequent government paralysis to react immediately and rectify issues in order to quickly
recover public enthusiasm for privatization. Even in the absence of regulators, which is the overarching
deficiency in the case of ELECTRA, efficient contract monitoring could have been instituted by the
government to spot the problems, and trigger immediate corrective reactions, before the problems grew
with a life of their own.

49.      Counterproductive effects of above on establishment of independent regulators. The need to
renegotiate legal arrangements between the government and the investors (and among all the stakeholders),
and the resources needed for financial rehabilitation of ELECTRA, necessitate the continuous engagement
of government ministers and their representatives. The regulators will have a most difficult challenge to
resist influences affecting their independence, given the dynamics and acute crisis surrounding ELECTRA,
as well as the forthcoming compromises between the main shareholders.

VIII.    WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE:
50.      All in all, the relationship and communications with the Bank has always tended to be most
supportive, professional and cordial. Even when there were moments of tension or shared frustration,
some of which concerned procedural matters (largely due to inconsistent practices and standards applied by
various coordinators and team leaders on both sides), Bank officials were generally tolerant, understanding
and helpful. Timely problem solving was extended in cases of resolving funding overlaps with other
projects (e.g. PEAS) as well as of cost overruns (e.g. the PPF). Most notably, when the credit agreement
had to be extended on two occasions, and when acute cost overruns culminated in a fiscal crisis that
necessitated supplemental IDA financing, the government's requests were processed expeditiously and
with maximum client service.

51.      In fairness, however, there were times when the Bank displayed a mirroring of the coordination
issues that also plagued our own side, including the personnel turnover (four team leaders over five years)



                                                     - 23 -

and the problems with seamlessness that it produced.

52.      More could have been done to provide more policy guidance and closer supervision of
substantive decision-making even at times of preoccupation with procedural compliance and completion of
time-bound action plans. More timely provision of competent sectoral/regulatory experts at critical
stages of divestiture of the problematic utilities, more economic and sector work from the Bank to
demystify the various policy and strategy trade-offs and options (e.g. possible unbundling of power and
water sector, better competition safeguards for all utility concessions, optional approaches to divestiture of
financial sector, etc.). Indeed, the Bank's guidance on matters of competition policy seemed to be
inconsistent across the projects and sectoral priorities, leaving the Washington Consensus aside on some
policy dilemmas.

IX.      GOVERNMENT AND PRIVATIZATION UNIT PERFORMANCE:
53.      Initially destabilized by changes triggered by mergers of units, the key to success was to recruit and
then retain a good coordinator and legal support, while staying insulated from politicization.

54.      Given that most of the financial and logistical projections underpinning the project design (e.g.
timetable, enterprises, forecast privatization proceeds or costs of retrenchment) needed reality-checks over
time, additional oversight and shared accountability with the Advisory Council would have resulted in
better financial discipline and perceptions of transparency, extending also over the Commissions for
Liquidation, which operated independent of the coordination unit. It is a paradox that the highly
disciplined, methodical use of decrees/laws for each step of the project contrasts so notably with the
government's less regimented fiscal administration practices.

55.      As a major lesson, the government and the coordination unit should be more diligent in aligning
action plans with the policy framework especially before taking actions that are irrevocable. A more
diligent adherence to, for example, the Letter of Development Policy (1998), might have injected more
caution and technical scrutiny in the divestiture of the public utilities, and more robust safeguards of
transparency in management of privatization revenues, particularly in the first two years of the life of the
project.

X.       KEY LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE OVERALL EXPERIENCE:
56.      Adopt a programmatic approach, using best practices, and avoid falling behind schedule or
losing momentum. Once behind schedule, projects of this complexity and size require exponential rates of
recovery, which are unattainable. ­ and, if unsure in the clarity of advice from Bank representatives,
demand clarification from official subject matter experts.

57.      Periodically, conduct collective updates on old projects, and look for synergies. For example, the
industrial free-trade zones once declared successful are now floundering. Clearly, the sustainability of
some projects needs to be revisited in order to yield lessons.

58.      Finally, fears of social explosiveness of labor retrenchment have subsided - affected workers have
adjusted to the new economy. Though more challenges are expected ahead, thanks to PRCBP's
institutional development focus, the government can now deliver effectively.

XI.      FUTURE OPERATIONS:
·        Future operations should address the needs for post-privatization technical assistance to
enterprises. They need management development support on a case-specific basis.



                                                      - 24 -

·        Further development of attractive financial intermediation vehicles for investors, such as
investment funds, is imperative.
·        Analysis of corporate legislation, including corporate governance, capital markets, mergers &
acquisitions, and insolvency to fine tune for suitable best practices

XII. STATUS UPDATE of REMAINING PRIVATIZATION PROCESSES: TACV, ENAPOR,
CABNAVE and STATUS UPDATE of the REGULATORY SYSTEM
In order to provide a more update status of captioned subjects, please find hereunder a summary of the
factors that indeed have caused some delays.

TACV
Progress in the privatization of TACV has been hindered, as a result of various factors: (i) the worldwide
recession in the civil aviation industry that was worsened (if not caused) by the events of 9/11, and
accompanied by significant price increases in fuel and airline insurance; (ii) lack of effective oversight over
the airline or conflicting development objectives (privatization versus a failed expansion effort that resulted
in great economic losses), and (iii) delay in securing required international expertise to restructure the
airline and lead it into privatization. The five month delay mentioned in (iii), which cannot be attributed to
the PRCBP and/or the Government, has been sufficiently explained in recent correspondence with the
World Bank. Essentially, this delay is due to the World Bank having objected to the selection of experts
made by a Government appointed evaluation commission, in December 2004, based on unacceptable
arguments. These arguments were rebated by Government in January of 2005, but the World Bank's
response was not forthcoming until May of 2005. The PRCBP is now finalizing a revised action plan for
TACV, based on the consensus reached during the last World Bank supervision mission.

Regulation
Though progress has been slower than desired, the Government is hard at work in overcoming many
problems inherited from the past (i.e. the sequencing of regulatory capacity building versus specific
privatization transactions) and found in the present (potential inter-institutional overlaps, etc). The
Government has responded to such problems by creating a Task Force for the Consolidation of Regulation
in Cape Verde (appointed directly by the Prime Minister) which has the following mandate: (i) in the near
term, and after careful analysis of the current situation, make recommendations for improvements in the
institutional framework for regulation in Cape Verde, and address any existing weaknesses; (ii) in a
consultative capacity, contribute to the preparation of a broad Government policy statement for the
regulation of the Cape-Verdean economy, which will serve as a reference in the dialog between the
Government, Cape Verde's development partners and Cape-Verdean society at large. Considerable
progress has been achieved in the consolidation of regulation of air transport and in the capacity building
for the regulation of energy, water and transport sectors. An economic and financial model for the
electricity and water producer has been developed, as have been regulations for these sectors.
Negotiations aiming at a revision of the telecommunications operator concession contract are underway and
the Government has formally issued a policy statement on the liberalization of telecommunications market.
Interconnection laws have been published and a new telecommunications law is being prepared with the
assistance of international experts.

ENAPOR
1.       Privatization Process
In 1999 Booz-Allen & Hamilton was selected to give technical assistance to the PIU and Government on
the privatization of ENAPOR. Meanwhile, after the termination of the 1st. phase of the contract, namely
the production of an Information Memorandum and a Technical Analysis Report, there were no conditions



                                                      - 25 -

to execute the second and third phases of the contract since the regulatory and institutional framework in
place were not conducive to their implementation. In fact London Economics was contracted to give
technical assistance to the PIU and GOCV in implementing the institutional and regulatory reforms needed,
but nothing was done at the time and later London Economics filed for bankruptcy.

After a long mourning period, in April 2004 after negotiations with BAH a modification and extension of
contract is signed between the PIU on behalf of the GOCV and BAH with an execution deadline of twelve
months, deadline that has expired on April 30th 2005. The contract stated that the update, revision and
conclusion of the information memorandum and technical analysis reports would be finalized by 30th of
June of 2004. The first draft of preliminary versions of mentioned reports was presented to the task force
for commentary in December 2004, and the Government approved task force commentary were then sent to
BAH in mid January. The final reports incorporating task force's commentary were only received at the
end of March 2005. Additionally the PIU signed with BAH on behalf of the GOCV a modification and
extension of contract that included all the works related to the legal, institutional and regulatory framework
necessary to the execution of the privatization process of the ports. The above mentioned technical
assistance was supposed to be delivered along with the works of the first phase of Privatization and it has
not been done up to now, being one of the major factors delaying the current privatization process.

2.       Institutional Framework
The design of the new institutional framework was communicated to the World Bank staff and consultants.
This has resulted in the creation of the Port and Maritime Institute responsible for both technical and
economic regulation of the sector and also the option for a landlord port where a public owned corporation
will be in charge of port administration and also accumulate the function of port authority. The port
terminals will be concessioned to private operators in the main three ports and in the remaining smaller
ports the GOCV intends to celebrate management contracts and as last resort some ports could be managed
by the port administration public corporation. Technical input and advice from the consultant is needed to
operationalize the strategy sought by GOCV, in order to guarantee a clear and objective functionality of the
institutions involved in the process. It is also vital to the privatization process to achieve the rapid
operationalization of the Port and Maritime Institute and the legal framework and legislation necessary to
its effective functioning.

CABNAVE
In 1999 Booz-Allen & Hamilton was selected to give technical assistance to the PIU and Government on
the privatization of ENAPOR. Meanwhile, after the termination of the 1st. phase of the contract, namely
the production of an Information Memorandum and a Technical Analysis Report, there were no conditions
to execute the second and third phases of the contract since this privatization process was to be bundled
with ENAPOR in a single privatization package. Since there were no institutional and legal framework
conditions to the continuation of the privation process for ENAPOR, and according to the then strategy of
bundling the two companies in a single privatization package this process was stopped.

In 2004 a new strategy of unbundling the two privatization processes is put in place by the current
Government, and as such in April 2004 an extension and amendment of contract is signed with BAH, to
re-initiate the technical assistance leading to the privatization process of CABNAVE unbundled from
ENAPOR. According to the contract signed with BAH the update and revision of the Information
Memorandum and Technical Analysis Report should have been concluded at the end of June 2004, and up
to now after contract expiration on April 15th 2005, the 1st of the 3 phases of the contract has not been
concluded by the consultant.




                                                    - 26 -

   Table 1 Cape Verde, Privatization Receipts and Costs, April 2005
   For enterprises covered by the PRCBP World Bank Project

                                       Privatization           Debts         Num of        Retrenchment
                                          Receipts            Assumed        Workers            Costs
 Company                    Year           (CVE)               (CVE)         Laid-Off           (CVE)
 PRIVATIZED
 ENTERPRISES
 ELECTRA (sold 53%)          1999       4,879,499,420      3,024,694,340
CV TELECOM (38%)          1999(a)         2,084,308,272         2,783,000
BCA                          1999         2,718,216,598         8,764,849       55              NA
ENACOL                       1998         1,923,241,950      2,024,692,391
CAIXA ECONOMICA              1999         1,108,934,880                          2
GARANTIA                     1999           834,129,550                          4
INTERBASE                    2005           205,000,000     254,937,979         23           24,000,000
PROMOTORA                    1999           161,545,550 171,000,000
HOTEL ATLANTICO              1999           125,000,000
HOTEL PRAIA MAR              1999           125,000,000        271,764,602
CVC                          1998           104,340,650
MOAVE                        1998            63,826,000
HOTEL XAGUATE                1999            42,000,000
SITA                         1998            36,000,000
ENAVI                        1998            72,287,000                         72
                                                                                          52,868,644
FAP                          1998            19,200,000                         46          337,000,000
INTERBETAO                   1998            15,500,000
FAMA                         2000             6.912,918        12,445,725
ANV                          1998         50,203,697(d)       175,599,000       26        50,203,697(d)
 OFICINAS                    1998
 CERIS                       1999
CORREIOS                     1999
ASA                          1999
 LIQUIDATED
 ENTERPRISES
EMPA                         2002       698,123,525(b)          0 (c)          586        1,662,202,397
TRANSCOR                     2002                N/A (c)       62,555,715      256          221,291,889
ARCA VERDE/CGTM            2005        29,000,000 (b)          287,856,970      37          126,698,093
 SONACOR                     1999            14,603,500        37,000,000       81              NA
 TOTALS:                                                                      1,188
                                    15,309,960,592        6,334,094,571                     2,421,396,076
 USD a rate:80CVE/USD                    $191,374,507                   $
                                                               79,176,182                     $30,267,451
   Notes: a)Excluding 1995 sale of 40% block, (b)This is only partial data from the first sales of assets, (c)No
   debt has been assumed by Government's Budget. The outstanding debt as well as the retrenchment costs
   have been paid with the proceeds from liquidation, (d)All severance payments used to purchase shares in



                                                     - 27 -

enterprise. Assets were on lease, and (e) Not included are costs of Technical Assistance and PIU, estimated
at $10 million (PRCBP)




                                                   - 28 -

          Table 2: Fiscal Flows to Treasury from Divested Enterprises 1998-April 2005
          Tax Revenues, Dividends, Tax on Dividends, and Concessions Rent (in USD)



                                                         1998           1999           2000           2001           2002           2003           2004          Apr-05


   CORPORATE INCOME TAXES
   Received into Treasury                              175,814      1,597,173        508,796      6,079,827      1,443,048      3,578,523      6,605,313      3,381,027
 Unpaid arrears, rolling forward                         295,027    3,379,565      5,106,421      3,168,683      6,163,079      5,487,426        469,463         69,942
        NET Collections Surplus/Deficit                (119,213)    (1,782,392)    (4,597,625)    2,911,145      (4,720,031)    (1,908,903)    6,135,850      3,311,085
           NET (Cumulative Arrears)                    (119,213)    (1,901,605)    (6,499,230)    (3,588,086)    (8,308,117)   (10,217,020)    (4,081,169)      (770,084)


   DIVIDENDS
   Received into Treasury                           $3,941,423     $1,447,371     $1,282,547      $498,945       $986,853      $1,063,243     $1,127,535            NA
 Est tax rev on dividends to local invst                $211,126    $316,288       $511,476       $263,090       $332,221       $367,650       $376,444
             (institutional and retail) @ 15% tax
                       Total                          $4,152,549   $1,763,659     $1,794,023      $762,035      $1,319,075     $1,430,893     $1,503,979
                   Cumulative                         $4,152,549   $5,916,208     $7,710,231     $8,472,266     $9,791,340    $11,222,233    $12,726,213            NA


   CONCESSIONS RENT
   CV Telecom                                       $1,183,775     $1,407,403     $1,726,956     $1,828,376     $1,923,582     $1,838,550     $1,690,171
 Electra
                       Total                          $1,183,775   $1,407,403     $1,726,956     $1,828,376     $1,923,582     $1,838,550     $1,690,171
                   Cumulative                         $1,183,775   $2,591,179     $4,318,135     $6,146,511     $8,070,092     $9,908,643    $11,598,814


   NET TOTALS by year                               $5,512,139     $4,768,235     $4,029,774     $8,670,238     $4,685,704     $6,847,966     $9,799,464     $3,381,027
   NET CUMULATIVE by year                           $5,512,139    $10,280,374    $14,310,149    $22,980,387    $27,666,091    $34,514,057    $44,313,521    $47,694,548




          Table 3: Post-Privatization Performance of a sample of 12 Enterprises
          Calculated as Net Change in Selected performance Indicators from Year of Divestiture until end of
          2003

                                                                                       Divest.        Sales%           Net                 Net            Value
Enterprise                           Type of Business              Location              Year                          Income          Assets%           Added%
Name


BCA                               Commercial bank                    Praia                2000               39%          0.42%            144%            0.10%
GARANTIA                          Insurance                          Praia                2000             529%             134%           139%             133%
 PROMOTORAVenture Capital                                            Praia                2000               174%           (83%)           89%             186%
 CAIXA                            Commercial bank                    Praia                2000               164%           133%           190%               99%
 ECONOMICA
 ELECTRA                          Power and Water                    Mindelo              1999               187%          (300%)          249%               (46%)
 CV                               Telecom                            Praia                1995               369%         1434%            293%             439%
 TELECOM
 HOTEL                            Tourism                            Praia                1999               145%         1023%            356%             152%
 PRAIAMAR
 MOAVE                            Rice flour mill                    Mindelo              1998               156%           102%           121%             139%
 FAMA                             Coffee, pasta                      Mindelo              2000               128%            41%           124%             166%
 ENACOL                           Petroleum fuel/gas                 Mindelo              1998               277%           916%           155%             210%
                                  distrib
 CVC                              Construction                       Praia                1998               186%           104%            82%             238%
 CORREIOS                         Postal                             Praia                1999               109%            11%           104%             101%
 CV


 Notes: CV Telecom's dividends in 2004 were 815% higher than in 1996 and 200% higher than in 2000.



                                                                                          - 29 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
not applicable

10. Additional Information

NA




                                             - 30 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                 Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. (a) Poverty alleviation through higher       GDP grew at 5.5% p.a. (1998-2004)              GDP grew at 5.5% p.a. (1998-2004)
private sector-based growth                     Private investment increased from 7.8% of      Private investment increased from 7.8% of
GDP growth at 4% p.a.                           GDP in 1998 to 11% in 2004.                    GDP in 1998 to 11% in 2004.
private investment increase from 7.8% of
GDP in 1998 to 12%.

1. (b)Reduced size of the State in productive 1.(b)Divestment of the PE portfolio from 30      1.(b)Divestment of the PE portfolio from 30
sectors, as measured by: (a) divestment of      enterprises to 4 was anticipated by end 2004 enterprises to 4 was substantially completed
the PE portfolio from 30 enterprises in 1997    based on the agreed action plan (with the      by May 2005 (only the ENAPOR, TACV,
to less than five by end 2001; and              completion of ARCA VERDE and                   CABNAVE and EMPROFAC divestitures
                                                INTERBASE transactions only the                remain)
                                                ENAPOR, TACV, CABNAVE and
                                                EMPROFAC divestitures will remain)
1. (c) value of PE assets to be divested,       (c)value of PE assets divested by end of       (c)value of PE assets divested as at April
estimated at US$ 291 million in 1996            project estimated at US$95 million (excluding 2005 estimated at US$120 million.
(excluding banks).                              banks).
                                                2.(a) concession for value-added services will 2.(a) 2 concessions for value-added services
2. Increased private sector participation in    be awarded by December 2004                    (cable TV) were awarded in April 2005.
utility and transport sectors, as measured by:
(a) award of at least one concession for
value-added services in telecommunications
to new operators;
2. (b) introduction of a strategic partner in   (b)a strategic partner is in place in          (b)a strategic partner is in place in
ELECTRA and TACV;                               ELECTRA; strategic partner in TACV only        ELECTRA; strategic partner in TACV only
                                                expected in 2006 if a management contract is expected in 2007 if the management contract
                                                in place in 2005                               is in place by 2006
2. (c) concession of ENAPOR                     (c) concession of ENAPOR expected only in (c)concession of ENAPOR now targeted for
                                                2005                                           mid 2006 at the earliest
2. (d) divestiture of TRANSCOR.                 (d) divestiture of TRANSCOR completed          (d) divestiture of TRANSCOR completed
3. Utilities' indicators of improved access and (a) electricity                                (a) electricity
quality of services provided. (See Annex 8 -    ·     number of customers:                     · number of customers:
PAD: Addendum to Project Design                 1998: 29,114                                   1998: 29,114
Summary: Utilities' Key Performance             2002: 60,724                                   2004: 71,243
Indicators).                                    ·     total production (MWh)                   · total production (MWh)
                                                1998: 100                                      1998: 100
                                                2002: 181                                      2004: 219
                                                ·     number of outages / (duration in         · number of outages / (duration in minutes)
                                                minutes)                                       1998: na
                                                1998: na                                       2002: na
                                                2002: na                                       2003: 30 (434 minutes)
                                                                                               2004: 60 (1709 minutes)

                                                                                               (b) water
                                                (b) water                                      · number of customers
                                                ·     number of customers                      1998: 9,920
                                                1998: 9,920                                    2004: 25,102
                                                2002: 19,585                                   · total production (m3)
                                                ·     total production (m3)                    1998: 1.78 million
                                                1998: 1.78 million                             2004: 4.09 million
                                                2002: 2.60 million                             (c)telecommunications #
                                                (c)telecommunications                          · Fixed lines/100 persons
                                                ·     Fixed lines/100 persons                  1998: 10.5
                                                1998: 10.5                                     2002: 15.1
                                                2002: 15.1                                     · Waiting list (numbers)
                                                ·     Waiting list (numbers)                   1998: 7,431
                                                1998: 7,431                                    2002: 1,651
                                                2002: 1,651                                    · Call success rate (average of local, long
                                                ·     Call success rate (average of local,     distance and int'nl)
                                                long distance and int'nl)                      1998: 60.9 percent
                                                1998: 60.9 percent                             2002: 65.0 percent
                                                2002: 65.0 percent                             # latest available data is for 2002




                                                                    - 31 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                 Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Divestiture contracts are signed for 28     1. Divestiture contracts are signed for 24     Divestiture contracts signed for 24 PEs and
PEs and performance contracts signed for 2 PEs and performance contracts signed for 2         performance contracts signed for 2 PEs.
PEs                                            PEs
2. Increased fiscal revenues, as measured      2.                                             2.
by:
(a)elimination of loss-making PEs, following   (a)EMPA successfully divested and ARCA         (a)Both EMPA and ARCA VERDE have
the divestiture of ARCA VERDE, EMPA and VERDE divested by end 2004                            been successfully divested.
CABNAVE; and
                                               (b)US$60 million of privatization proceeds     (b)US$60 million of privatization proceeds
(b)transfer of at least US$80 million of       have been transferred to the Treasury          have been transferred to the Treasury
privatization proceeds to the Treasury, net of
end-of-service benefits, PE liabilities and    (c)more than 1000 PE employees have been (c)more than 1000 PE employees have been
divestiture transaction costs                  retrenched and their end-of-service benefits   retrenched and their end-of-service benefits
                                               have been paid in full totaling US$20 million. have been paid in full totaling US$26 million.
(c)About 1000 PE employees have been
retrenched and their end-of-service benefits   (d)The planned multi-media communication       (d)The planned multi-media communication
have been paid, totaling US$10 million         activities were successfully completed         activities were successfully completed

(d)At least 15 multi-media communication
actions are carried out through various
channels from 1998 to 2000
3. Enactment of new sector legislation for:    3. (a)the Framework Law on Regulatory          3. (a)the Framework Law on Regulatory
(a)multi-industry regulatory institutions;     Agencies to establish the multi-sector         Agencies to establish the multi-sector
(b)telecommunications, allowing effective      regulator (ARE) was adopted in 2003.           regulator (ARE) was adopted in 2003.
competition in value-added services;           (b)legislation on interconnection, allowing    (b)legislation on interconnection, allowing
(c)air transport, complying with ICAO          effective competition in value-added services effective competition in value-added services
regulations;                                   was established in 2004                        was established in 2004
(d)maritime transport, introducing competitive (c)air transport regulation complying with     (c)air transport regulation complying with
policies and cost recovery tariffs; and        ICAO regulations were adopted in 2003          ICAO regulations were adopted in 2003
(e)urban transport, establishing licensing or  (d)maritime transport regulations introducing (d)maritime transport regulations introducing
route concession systems which foster          competitive policies and cost recovery tariffs competitive policies and cost recovery tariffs
competition and allow profitability of         have been established                          have been established
operations.                                    (e)urban transport regulations allowing        (e)urban transport regulations allowing
                                               competition have been established and          competition have been established and
                                               private operators are providing services       private operators are providing services
4. Staff training programs are fully           4. (a)the workshop on public utilities         4. (a)the workshop on public utilities
implemented: (a)in-country workshop on         regulation was held in October 2002            regulation was held in October 2002
public utilities has been organized by June    (b)more than 25 persons have received          (b)more than 25 persons have received
1999; and                                      training in regulation issues                  training in regulation issues
(b)at least 25 persons received training in
regulation issues
5. Regulatory functions are adequately         5. Regulatory functions for the port and       5. Regulatory functions for the port and
provided during the interim phase of capacity pharmaceutical sectors have not been            pharmaceutical sectors have not been
building throughout the project.               established yet.                               established yet.
6. At least one twinning arrangement           6. No twinning arrangement has been            6. Twinning partnerships with Brazilian
concluded between a Cape Verdean               concluded as yet.                              regulators established.
regulatory agency and a foreign regulator by
June 1999
7. Cape Verde becomes a member of at least 7. Cape Verde is a member of INFRAREG              7. Cape Verde is a member of INFRAREG
one network of regulators                      since 1999 and is planning to join the African since 1999 and is about to join the African
                                               and International Fora for Utility Regulators  Fora for Utility Regulators
                                               The PIU developed and adopted the
                                               divestiture action plan that was agreed to by  The PIU developed and adopted the
                                               the GOCV and the World Bank.                   divestiture action plan that was agreed to by
                                                                                              the GOCV and the World Bank.
8. Transparency of privatization transactions 8. Transparency of privatization transactions 8. Transparency of privatization transactions
is maintained                                  was maintained through publication of all      was maintained through publication of all
                                               privatization decrees in the Official Gazette  privatization decrees in the Official Gazette
9. Timely reporting on work program and        9. Reporting on work program and               9. Reporting on work program and




                                                                   - 32 -

auditing of accounts                         submission of audit reports was mostly timely submission of audit reports was mostly timely
                                             (with a couple of exceptions)                 (with a couple of exceptions)
10. Procurement process is efficient, timely 10. There were no significant procurement     10. There were no significant procurement
and competitive throughout the Project.      issues throughout the process.                issues throughout the process.

1End of project




                                                                - 33 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
Acclerated Privatization Program                             4.02             4.84
Consolidated Regulatory Framework                            4.47             2.78
Project Coordination                                         1.51             1.71
Project Preparation Facility                                                  0.55

Total Baseline Cost                                         10.00             9.88
                          Total Project Costs               10.00             9.88
                  Total Financing Required                  10.00             9.88


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.65            0.32         0.18          0.00         1.15
                                   (0.49)          (0.24)      (0.14)          (0.00)       (0.87)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         7.31          0.00         7.31
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (7.31)          (0.00)       (7.31)
4. Training/Visits                  0.00            0.00         1.03          0.00         1.03
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.82)          (0.00)       (0.82)
5. Operating Costs                  0.00            0.00         0.51          0.00         0.51
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            0.65            0.32         9.03          0.00         10.00
                                   (0.49)          (0.24)      (8.27)          (0.00)       (9.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00         7.15           0.00        7.15
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (4.98)         (0.00)       (4.98)
4. Training/Visits                  0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)


                                                - 34 -

  5. Operating Costs                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              2.73             0.00              2.73
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (4.00)            (0.00)           (4.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              9.88             0.00              9.88
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (8.98)            (0.00)           (8.98)
  note: services expenditure obtained from SAP; other costs are estimated from total expenditure
    1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Acclerated Privatization        3.70         0.32                     4.06         0.77                  109.7    240.6
Program
Consolidated Regulatory         4.00         0.47                     2.74         0.04                  68.5      8.5
Framework
Project Coordination            1.30         0.21                     1.63         0.08                  125.4     38.1
Project Preparation                                                   0.55
Facility




                                                           - 35 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

As this project was providing Technical Assistance, its direct benefits are intangible and therefore a full
economic cost-benefit analysis was not carried out. Fiscal and other positive impacts are captured in the
discussion in 4.1 Outcome/achievement of objectives




                                                   - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               02/04/1998             N/A     N/A



 Appraisal/Negotiation
               05/20/1998             N/A     N/A


 Supervision

               11/02/1999                 4   ECONOMIST-TEAM LEADER                 S               S
                                              (1); INDUSTRIAL EONOMIST
                                              (1); REGULATION
                                              SPECIALIST (1); PUBLIC
                                              ENTERPRISES SPE (1)
               05/22/2000                 3   PS SPECIALIST (1);                    S               S
                                              ECONOMIST (2)
               11/23/2001                 3   COUNTRY ANCHOR (1);                   S               S
                                              REGULATORY (1);
                                              PRIVATIZATION (1)
               05/22/2002                 5   TTL (1); ANCHOR (1);                  S               S
                                              REGULATORY COMPONENT
                                              (1); LEGAL ASPECT (1);
                                              IMPLEMENTATION (1)
               11/05/2002                 3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.             U               U
                                              ECONOMIST (1); PSD
                                              SPECIALIST (1)


               10/06/2003                 2   REGULATORY SPECIALIST                 S               S
                                              (1); SR. PSD SPECIALIST (1)
               03/28/2004                 2   TTL (1); Regulatory Specialist        U               U
                                              (1)
               10/30/2004                 3   SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER                S               S
                                              (1); REGULATORY
                                              SPECIALIST (1); SR. PVT.
                                              SECTOR SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               05/10/2005                1     TTL                                  S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                NA                              NA




                                               - 37 -

 Appraisal/Negotiation                        NA                           NA
 Supervision                                  112                     548,000
 ICR                                            6                       22,000
 Total                                        118                     570,000
note: estimates are for period 2000-2005; data for 1998-1999 was unavailable




                                                 - 38 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document for the Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project, June 1998
2. Bank Mission Supervision Aide Memoires and PSRs
3. Country Assistance Strategy for Cape Verde, 2005
4. ICR for the Privatization Technical Assistance Project, June 1998
5. ICR for the Structural Adjustment Credit, December 2003
6. Various project records and documents in the PCU
7. Preliminary draft report of the Privatization Impact Study carried out by the Government, May 2005
8. PSRs for the Energy and Water Project




                                                  - 41 -

- 42 -

