Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Cz,Z  /1r 67-'
Report No. 7420-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
October 19, 1988
Country Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
This document has a resricted distributioir and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may nof, otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PR)JECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Annual Average, Guinean Francs per US Dollar)
1986: GF 345; 1987: GF 428; 1988: GF 475 (estimate)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADETEF    Association pour le Developpement des Techniques
Economiques et Financieres
ASYCUDA   Automated System for Customs Data
AfDB      African Development Bank
AfDF      African Development Fund
BARAF     Bureau d'Aide a la Reconversion des Fonctionnaires
BCRG      Banque Centrale de la Republique de Guinde
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CCEF      Comite de Coordination Economique et Financiere
CNPG      Centre National de Perfectionnement et de Gestion
DGIP      Direction Generale des Investissements Publics
DGP       Direction Generale du Plan
DGSI      Direction G6ndrale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique
EMSP II   Second Economic Management Support Project
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MEF       Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPCI      Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation
MRAFP     Ministry of Administrative Reform and Civil Service
PIP       Public Investment Program
PMC       Project Management Committee
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
RMU       Reform Monitoring Unit
SAL II    Second Structural Adjustment Credit
SED       Ministry of Decentralization
SGG       General Secretariat of the Government
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SDSP      Social Development Support Project
SPPF      Special Project Preparation Facility
TA Proj.  Technical Assistance Project for Economic Management
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme
UNDTCD    U. N. Department of 'ech. Cooperation in Development
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR and PROJECT YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICUAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                  ..                      i
I.  BACKGROUND ................................................   1
A.   The First Phase of the Recovery Program (1985-1988)..   1
B.   Lessons Learned .....................                    5
C.   Institutional Issues Outstanding and Government Plans
for the Second Phase (1988-1991) .....................   9
II.  THE PROJECT ..........     ....................................  13
A.   General .............................................  13
- Project Rationale    ................................   13
- Project Concept ..................................   13
- Project Objectives ...............................  13
B.   Project Description ..................................  14
- Economic Analysis and Planning ....................  15
- Public Finance Management ........ ................  16
- Administrative and Civil Service Reform ...........  18
- Professional Skills Development ...................  19
- Other Direct Support to the Recovery Program ......  21
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND PROCUREMENT ...  24
A.   Project Cost and Financing Plan ......................  24
B.   Disbursements, Procurement, Accounts and Audits ......  25
This report was prepared by Mr. M. Kuoh (Country Officer) and is based on
the findings of missions which visited Guinea in February, April and July
1988. The missions also included Mr. A. Cherif (Loan Officer, AfDB);
Mr. H. Tuluy and Mrs. T. Manuelyan-Atinc (Economists), Mrs. L. Truong
(Senior Public Sector Management Specialist), Messrs. P. Guislain (Counsel)
and S. Kaba (Operations Officer, World Bank Resident Mission, Conakry); and
Mr. A. Vorms (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION ....................   28
A.   Project Management and Coordination ...             ....    28
B.   Project Implementation and Monitoring ...           ....    29
C.   IDA Supervision and Donors Coordination .... ...    31
D.   Status of Project Preparation .......    32
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS .......   33
VI.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ...             . ...                 34
A.   Conditions and Agreements .......                              34
B. Recommendation .......   35
ANNEXES
Annex I    : Main Project Activities and Expected Results
Annex II   : Main Training Programs
Annex III  :  Project Costs by Component and Nature
Annex IV   :  Project Financing by Component
Annex V    :  Project Financing by Nature of Costs
Annex VI   : Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Annex VII  :  Project Organizational Chart
Annex VIII :  Selected Documents in Project File
Annex IX   :  Timetable of Key Processing Events
Map:  IBRD No. 20873 R



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Republic of Guinea
Implementing         Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation
Agencies:           (MPCI), Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF),
Ministry of Administrative Reform and Civil
Service (MRAFP), Central Bank (BCRG) and National
Management Training Center (CNPG)
Credit Amount:       SDR 11.3 million (US$ 14.5 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:         United Nations Development Program (UNDP), African
Development Fund (AfDF), Fonds d'Aide et de
Coop4ration (FAC), Caisse Centrale de Cooperation
Economique (CCCE), and United States Agency for
International Development (USAID)
Proiect
Description:         The Project objectives are to  (i) support long-term
institution building through the strengthening of key
government functions (planning and investment
programming, public finance management and management
of the civil service); (ii) help improve the management
and monitoring of the Government's Economic and
Financial Recovery Program and, in particular, to
facilitate the implementation of economic and
institutional reforms included in its structural
adjustment program; (iii) develop sound economic
legislation; and (iv) strengthen the Government's civil
service training capacity and develop the professional
skills of a number of national cadres.
This will be achieved through an integrated package of
mutually supporting operations including short and
long-term technical assistance, in-country training
programs and fellowships, studies, and financing of
equipment and vehicles. The Project will be executed
over a period of four years.



- ii -
Estimated Project Costs by Components a/
Z of
Local     Foreign   Total      Base Cost
...... .(US$ million)
1.   Economic Analysis & Planning   1.3         2.5        3.8        17.1
2    Public Finance Management        2.0       3.8        5.8        26.1
3.   Administriitive and Civil
Servfce reform                  1.1        2.4       3.5         15.8
4.   Professional Skills Develop.   1.5         2.3        3.8        17.1
5.   Other Direct Support to the
Recovery Program                1.2        3.2       4.4         19.8
Central Bank                 (0.2)      (0.9)     (1.1)        (4.9)
Legal Assistance             (0.7)      (1.6)     (2.3)       (10.4)
Other Activities             (0.3)      (0.7)     (1.0)        (4.5)
6.   Reform Monitoring
and Project Management          0.3        0.6       0.9          4.1
Total base costs           7.4      14.8       22.2        100.0
Physical contingencies          0.2        0.4       0.6
Price contingencies             1.9        0.7       2.6
Total Project Cost                   9.5       15.9      25.4
(Taxes excluded)
Taxes                                 2.4        -         2.4
Total Project Cost                  11.9       15.9      27.8
(Taxes included)
____________________________
a/ Including the costs of activities financed through a SPPF of US$300,000
and a PPP of US$455,000.



- iii -
Project Fir ncing Plan
Local          Foreign              Total
........... (US$ million) .........
Source of Financina
Government            3.3             -                   3.3
IDA                   5.3            9.2                14.5
UNDP                  0.8             1.4                 2.2
AfDB                  0.9             1.6                 2.5
FAC                   0.9            1.9                  2.8
CCCE                  0.4             0.8                 1.2
USAID                 0.3             1.0                 1.3
TOTAL          11.9            15.9                27.8
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year
.(US$ million)....
1989*      1990      1991   1992    1993       1994  1995
Annual          1.4         3.0       3.0    3.0     2.0        1.6   0.5
Cumulative     1.4          4.4       7.4   10.4    12.4       14.0  14.5
-I-c------the-repaymet-of-the----F-and---
*Includes the repayment of the SPPF and PPF



- iv -
Proiect Benefits:
The overall outcome of the Project will be the timely
implementation of reforms included in the Recovery Program and
stronger institutions capable of promoting and supporting
sustained economic growth. Specific benefits will include: (i) a
stronzer ecoisomic data base; (ii) better prepared investment
projects and improved programming of investments; (iii) enhanced
financial management based on sound regulations and procedures
leading to improved revenue collection and expenditure control;
(iv) a more reliable civil service personnel data system; fv) a
coherent set of economic and financial legislation; and (vi) a
pool of nationals better trained and equipped to perform
effectively in the context of the new liberal economic system.
Project Risks:
The Project faces three significant risks. First, the
pressure to carry out the reforms expeditiously may stand in the
way of achieving its long-term institution-building objectives.
This risk should be minimized by the emphasis put on developing
new procedures, selecting suitable counterparts, and monitoring
closely training activities, including on-the-job training.
Second, the large number of activities to be undertaken under the
Project and the involvement of five donors may create
implementation and coordination difficulties. However, the
project management and implementation arrangements have been
designed to provide sufficient flexibility, efficient leadership,
and effective coordination. Third, given the profound changes
that the adjustment process is introducing in the social fabric,
there is a risk that resistance of interest groups benefitting
from the status quo could, at times, delay the implementation of
SAL reforms and thereby affect the Government's ability to
achieve some of the Project objectives in a timely manner.
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Memorandum of the President: No. P-4878-GUI
AFlCO
October, 1988



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SECOND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      In late 1985, Guinea's new government launched a far-reaching
Economic and Financial Recovery Program. The -I.rst phase of the Recovery
Program (1985-1988 - Phase I) was supported by ,.MF Stand-By and SAP
arrangements, IDA and SFA structural adjustment credits totalling SDR 38.5
million and the IDA-financed Technical Assistance Project for Economic
Management (the TA Project Cr-1559-GUI, SDR 9.7 million). During Phase I,
Guinea adopted most of the initial corrective measures needed to eliminate
the distortions inherited from the past and create a market-oriented
economy. The results obtained so far are encouraging. However, the scale
of adjustment needed to attain self-sustaining growth and the deep-seated
weaknesses in economic management are such that Guinea will continue to
face a difficult transitional period over the medium term and will need
support from the international community during the next phases of its
structural adjustment process. The Government has requested IDA assistance
for the second phase of the Recovery Program (1988-1991). This led to the
preparation of (i) a Second Structural Adjustment Credit of SDR 47 million
approved in June 1988 (SAL II: Report No P-4805-GUI), with cofinancing from
the African Development Fund (AfDF) and the government of Japan; (ii) the
proposed Second Economic Management Support Project (EMSP II), which is
designed to strengthen institutional capacity for managing the Recovery
Program and achieve sustained economic growth; and (iii) a Social
Development Support Project (under preparation) which would help alleviate
the social impact of adjustment.
A.   The First Phase of the Recovery Program (1985 - 1988)
The Legacy of the First Republic
1.02      Ineffective economic polizies.  Despite its considerable
agricultural, mineral and energy resources, Guinea is one of Africa's
poorest countries with a per capita income of about US$300 in 1986. From
being a major exporter of agricultural products at independence in 1958,
Guinea became a net food importer and increasingly dependent for its
foreign exchange earnings on bauxite and alumina. The economy's external
position became unsustainable as mounting debt-service obligations resulted
in a massive accumulation of arrears totalling almost US$300 million at the
end of 1985. This poor performance resulted from an inefficient,
state-dominated economy producing at levels well below its potential
because of inadequate producer incentives and deteriorating physical
infrastructure. The distorted incentive framework included: (a) a highly
overvalued exchange rate leading to buoyant parallel markets;
(b) non-remunerative agricultural producer prices; and (c) an average
monthly salary which, even assuming two salaried persons per family in a



- 2 -
typical Conakry household, could not cover more than one third of total
household expenditures.
1.03      Inefficient Economic Management and Weak Institutions.  A country
dominated politically and economically by the Parti Democratique de Guin4e
(PDG), a "State-Party" headed by the late President Sekou Toure, Guinea was
governed without efficient institutions and proper procedures. As most
day-to-day economic decisions were made essentially on political grounds at
the Presidency, management tools such as budgeting, investment programming
and a solid statistical base were not developed for the management of
Guinea's economy.
1.04      As a result, the agencies formally responsible for key economic
management functions developed major institutional weaknesses. First, it
became increasingly obvious that the civil service included a large body of
unskilled, underpaid and unmotivated civil servants often resorting to
corruption. Second, domestic resource mobilization was minimal as both
Customs and Tax directorates were totally inefficient and the banking
system insolvent. Third, expenditure control was nonexistent given that
neither the ministry responsible for economic planning nor the finance
ministry prepared budgets on the basis of which capital and current
expenditure could be monitored.
Policy Reforms and Economic Performance since 1985
1.05      Reforms undertaken.  The new Government launched an ambitio,;s
Economic arid Financial Recovery Program under the overall supervision of a
ministerial-level economic and financial coordination committee, the
Comite de Coordination Economiaue et Financibre (CCEF). The overriding
objective was to free the economy from pervasive state controls and
government intervention and to put in place a policy framework supporting a
market-oriented economic system. Specific measures were designed to (i)
correct the serious overvaluation of the currency; (ii) restore confidence
in the banking system by encouraging the establishment of a new banking
system to replace the defunct state banks; (iii) decontrol prices; (iv)
liberalize internal and external trade; (v) reduce the scale and improve
the efficiency of the public enterprise sector through liqiidations,
privatizations and restructuring of selected public enterprises; and (vi)
launch a major administrative reform program which, inter alia, targeted a
staff reduction of nearly 25 percent in the public sector in 12 months
(from 88,000 to 66,000).
1.06      A new agency (the Commissariat General a la Reforme
Administrative - CGRA) was established in 1985 under the direct authority
of the Head of State to supervise the preparation and the implementation of
the administrative reform program. The CGRA has been leading the work to
standardize and simplify the internal organization of ministries and their
staffing. Thus far, 12 out of 27 ministries have had their organization
structures revised and new staffing levels approved; the remaining ones are
at various stages of finalization. The staff reduction process has been
initiated including the issuance of ordinances and decrees which provide



- 3 -
for (i) the ttansitory "administrative reserve' status (disponibilitd
speciale) created initially for laid-off parastatal employees; (ii) early
retirement; (iii) voluntary departures; (iv) the removal from permanent
civil service status of auxiliary staff (e.g. drivers, mailmen); and (v)
the flexible use of temporary contractual staff. In addition, the
Government decided that, to create a leaner civil service, staff selection
will be made through a comprehensive vesting exercise (aptitude and
competence) covering the whole civil service and organized by ministry.
The first staff testing were completed in the Livestock directorate of the
Ministry or Agriculture in November 1986.
1.07      Out of concerned for the social impact of the adjustment process,
particularly in urban areas, the Government decided to (i) provide
additional payments to civil servants to compensate for increases in the
cost of living and transportation resulting from the devaluation and the
increases in petroleum prices; (ii) continue to pay, on a temporary basis,
the salaries of laid-off public sector employees; and (iii) launch labor-
intensive work programs to create employment in Conakry. In addition, to
ease the absorption of :edundant civil servants by the private sector, the
Government created an employment advisory service (the Bureau d'Aide a la
Reconversion des Agents de la Fonction Publique - BARAF) in March 1987 that
provides assistance in preparing bankable projects. Under this scheme,
which is supported by French aid agencies, departing civil servants can use
their severance pay as a down payment to secure loans up to five times that
amount.
1.08      Encouraging though uneven results.  The reforms have yielded
encouraging results. The economy grew by 6? in rea] terms in 1987,
implying an increase of over 3Z in per capita income. This was largely due
to an impressive supply response in the rural areas, including increases in
coffee and rice production, and resumption of activities in the livestock
sector. The number of public enterprise liquidations and privatizations
has also been impressive. Out of 180 public enterprises in existence in
1986, 69 have been liquidated, 20 have been privatized, and 80 more are in
various stages of liquidation or privatization. At the came time, small
scale enterprises, principally in construction, agroindustry, transport and
trade, have increased in number and exhibited significant increases in
their activities.
1.09      The objectives set by the Government in 1985 concerning staff
reduction and civil service personnel management were probably overly
ambitious. The total number of public sector employees has been reduced by
15,200 staff including 5,500 persons placed in administrative reserve
(mainly parastatal employees), 8,200 retirees, and 1,500 persons who opted
for the voluntary departure scheme. However, no civil servant had actuallv
been laid-off as of September 1988.



- 4 -
Donor's Support for Improved Economic Management
1.10      The IMF and IDA have been closely associated with the formulation
and implementation of Phase I which also benefitted from technical
assistance operations funded by UNDP and the French government:.
1.11      The IMF provided the Centra'l Bank (Banque Centrale de la
Republique de Guinee - BCRG) with a senior advisor to the Governor and
three advisors located respectively in the Foreign Exchange, Credit and
Studies, and Accounting departments. This assistance which supplemented
direct support from IMF staff (including a Resident Advisor) played a
critical role in helping the Government reorganize the 3CRG, implement the
currency change, operate the major initial devaluation of the currency and
establish the weekly foreign exchange auctions.
1.12      IDA support: the Technical Assistance Project for Economic
Management (the TA Project). With components for macroeconomic and
investment planning, national accounts and a strong training component,
this first operation approved in March 1985 was designed primarily to help
the Ministry of Plan and International Cooperation (MPCI) develop a
statistical base and strengthen the planning process. The TA Project,
which will be completed in December 1988, has been implemented
satisfactorily. As of end-August 1988, disbursements represented 80
percent of the credit compared to the 40 percent norm according to the
Africa Region Disbursement Profile.
1.13      Principal outputs have included the 1987-89 public investment
program, endorsed by the donor community in March 1987 at the meeting of
the Consultative Group for Guinea, statistical surveys on household
consumption, and national accounts for 1985, 1986 and 1987 (preliminary).
Macroeconomic work was also initiated leading to the presentation, for the
first time in March 1988, of a macroeconomic model adapted to the Guinean
economy.
1.14      The TA Project also helped the Government prepare Phase I reforms
and implement a number of policy measures which contributed to the positive
developments in the economy since 1985. Assistance to the newly created
debt division in the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) has been
critical fot debt rescheduling negotiations.  Consultancy services financed
under the project have contributed to the success of the Government's
public enterprise sector restructuring program. Other project outputs
which support the reforms directly include an investment code, a new
accounting framework for enterprises and a draft procurement code expected
to be passed into law shortly.
1.15      Finally, the project included a strong training component focused
on the Centre Nationa'l de Perfectionnement et de Gestion (CNPG), the
leading management training center in Guinea. In addition to -ssisting in
the construction of modern and functional facilities, the project enabled
the CNPG to develop and conduct formal upgrading and training courses in



economic and financial analysis, statistics and business accounting for
staff selected from ministries and public enterprises.
1.16      Additional Bank support is being provided under the Special
Technical Assistance Program for IDA countries. A Bank staff member was
seconded to the Government in October 1987 as a Senior Economic Advisor to
the Minister of Plan and International Cooperation. In addition to
advising the Minister on policy matters and providing guidance and support
to MPCI's directors and division chiefs, he has been very active in the
preparation of Phase II. More specifically, he has helped create an
informal interministerial working group which has been helping the CCEF
monitor the execution of the program. The group also played a key role
during the preparation of SAL II and the proposed EMSP II.
1.17      Assistance from the Fonds d'Aide et de Coop4ration (FAC).  In
parallel with the preparation of the TA project, the Government discussed a
technical assistance program with the FAC. Although a larger program was
originally envisaged, both parties finally agreed to proceed with a smaller
technical assistance package. FAC financed the services of an advisor to
the Minister of Finance, and three experts, located respectively in the
Budget, Treasury and Customs directorates, who have mainly assisted the
Minister and his senior advisor in carrying out day-to-day operations.
1.18      Also in 1985, UNDP approved an Administrative Reform Support
Project (Prodoc No Gui/85/OOP) which was complemented by an IDA Special
Project Preparation Facility (SPPF I GO 13-GUI, US$300,000 equivalent,
September 1985) to help finance the civil service census. The UNDP project
helped the Government establish the CGRA and launch the administrative
reform program (para. 1.06). The CGRA which merged with the Ministry of
Civil Service to become the Ministry of Administrative Reform and Civil
Service (MRAFP) in January 1988, has played a major role in directing and
coordinating the design of the organizational structures of the new
administration and in supervising the staff selection process (civil
service census, testing of civil servants and establishment of voluntary
departure schemes).
B.   Lessons Learned
1.19      In December 1987, in the course of the preparation of Phase II,
the Government organized, with Bank assistance, a workshop on the
adjustment program. The workshop offered 28 high-level Guinean officials
the opportunity to conduct a critical examination of the preparation and
implementation of Phase I. It served to highlight positive developments as
well as a number of shortcomings from which both the Government and the
donor community have drawn lessons regarding various dimensions of the
adjustment process (economic, social and institutional) and the design and
implementation of technical assistance operations. Finally, the workshop
played a catalytic role ia the identification of economic and institutional



- 6 -
reforms to be carried out under Phase II and in the preparation of SAL II
and the proposed EMSP II.
Relevance of the Liberal Policy Orientation
1.20      For most Guineans, especially the 80 percent of the population
living in the rural areas, the four-year experience of the Second Republic
has confirmed that a liberal policy orientation can induce positive changes
in the structure of the economy, facilitate the resumption of economic
growth, and thereby improve the living conditions of the people.
Consequently, the Government's strategy, which puts a high premium on
private initiative and is based on a restricted and supportive role for the
state, has the support of the majority of Guineans. It is not challenged
on objective economic grounds, despite the continued resistance to reforms
by a number of citizens (mainly located in the Conakry area) who benefitted
from the state-dominated modern sector under the First Republic.
The Social Dimensions of Adiustment
1.21      In spite of the additional cost-of-living allowance and the
assistance provided through the BARAF (para. 1.07), measures to alleviate
the social impact of adjustment were not designed as an integral part of
the overall development strategy during Phase I. Until the establishment
of the Task Force on Social Policy by the Minister of Plan and
International Cooperation in September 1987, little had been done to
identify the most vulnerable groups, monitor their situation and formulate
appropriate responses to their needs.
1.22      In parallel with the preparation of SAL II and the proposed
Project, the Government and IDA launched the preparatWon of a Social
Development Support Project (SDSP) which was appraised in July 1988. The
SDSP, which is also supported by UNDP and AfDB, will help the Government
implement a comprehensive program including: (i) the preparation and
implementation of specific small-scale projects and programs designed to
mitigate the transitional impact of adjustment on the most vulnerable
groups, and which will be financed through a Social Fund of about
US$3 million equivalent; and (ii) strengthening of the Government's
capacity to design and implement social policy measures and monitor the
situation of the poor.
The Institutional Dimensions of Adjustment
1.23      Managing the Recovery Program.  The Government's Recovery Program
has suffered from the absence of a monitoring and coordinating body at the
technical level. Composed of cabinet members, the CCEF was created in
January 1986 to facilitate the decision-making process on issues to be
submitted to the Council of Ministers. The CCEF is not, however, equipped
to conduct policy analysis, monitor the implementation of decisions taken
and ensure that internal consistency is maintained during the execution of
detailed reform measures. For instance, insufficient preparation and loose
supervision of the privatization/restructuring program of public



enterprises have made possible agreements granting monopolies and
incentives beyond the provisions of the Investment Code adopted in January
1987. Under Phase II, the Government has decided to establish a Reform
Monitoring Unit (RMU) to act as a permanent secretariat to the CCEF with a
view to strengthening interministerial consultation at the technical level.
1.24      Streamlining the distribution of responsibilities and sequencing
improvements in key government departments. Another lesson learned since
1985 is that additional gains in economic management will be difficult (i)
as long as the distribution of responsibilities between Government
departments remains confused and (ii) if improvements continue to be
introduced at different speeds and without appropriate sequencing in the
key government departments responsible for macroeconomic management: the
MPCI, the MEF, the BCRG and the MRAFP.
1.25      A review of policy implementation difficulties during Phase I
indicates, for instance, that the competing roles of the MEF and the BCRG
regarding the management of the country's debt has hampered the development
and implementation of a reliable debt management system. It appears also
that progress in developing institutional capacity in the MEF has lagged
significantly behind that in the other three departments. Consequently,
further improvements in preparing and executing an efficient public
investment program, establishing a reliable civil service roster and
implementing a flexible and effective exchange rate policy are currently
hampered by the absence of adequate budget and expenditure control
procedures and effective tax and customs administrations. During Phase II,
the Government will emphasise the clarification the responsibilities of its
departments and will carefully monitor progress to ensure that the critical
improvements necessary in each of the key departments are introduced in a
timely manner.
Skills Shortages and Conditions for Effective Institution-Building
1.26      Skills Development.  In addition to the weaknesses in the
regulations and procedures inherited from the First Republic, the
implementation of Phase I highlighted Guinea's serious shortage of skills
at all levels and in all fields (economics, finance, general
administration, law and engineering) critical for economic development.
This is a result of an education system characterized by low enrollment
levels, inadequate allocation of resources, poor quality and internal
efficiency of education at all levels and a lack of coherence between the
training system and the employment/labor market.
1.27      Phase I confirmed the need to reinforce the civil service
training capacity with a view to developing the professional skills needed
to manage a market-oriented economy. As an example, basic accounting
concepts such as depreciation expenses and retained earnings were not
believed to be relevant to the former state-dominated economic system and
therefore are new to many Guinean cadres responsible for monitoring the
activities of enterprises in technical ministries or pzocessing their tax
returns in the MEF. The Government fully realizes that the sustainability



- 8 -
of its economic and institutional reforms and, in the medium term, the
establishment of an economic system in which the State can effectively play
its supportive role, call for a major effort to develop professional skills
within the civil service and increase the average level of competence and
efficiency of public sector personnel.
1.28      Effecti're Institution Building.  Under Phase I, the results have
been uneven regarding the institutional development objectives of technical
assistance operations. In most instances, consultants performed discrete
activities without working in partnership with national staff and without
sharing responsibility for the outcome. As a result, actual on-the-job
training has been insufficient, limiting the transfer of professional
knowledge. This situation resulted largely from the limited attention paid
by the Government to the formulation of a strategy for the utilization of
technical assistance and to the management of technical assistance
operations. Consequently, the Government and its foreign partners have not
always cast the appropriate balance between operational outputs of
technical assistance projects and staff training. Also, delays in
reorgan:.zing government departments, clarifying their respective functions
and selecting staff expected to act as counterparts to the technical
assistance personnel have curtailed the transfer of knowledge.
1.29      Aid coordination.  Despite the intensive discussions which took
place among donors in 1985, the various technical assistance operations
financed by IDA, UNDP and FAC, were not designed as integral parts of a
global institution-building effort. Each aid agency focused on the
institution it had chosen to support while the Government lacked the
capacity to coordinate and manage the technical assistance programs
effectively. As a result, the sequencing of institutional support to key
agencies was not properly determined, limiting the synergetic effect of the
various operations. Moreover, the links between these agencies (i.e.
MEF-MPCI on the execution of the public investment program, MEF-BCRG on the
management of the public debt) raised issues that the design of each
separate technical assistance operation could not address properly.
1.30      In late-1987 and 1988 the Government and Guinea's maior donors
becamp increasingly aware of the need to strengthen donor coordination in
the area of technical assistance, particularly technical assistance for
macroeconomic management and administrative reform. This was highlighted
during the UNDP-financed National Technical Cooperation Assessment Program
(NaTCAP) exercise conducted in 1987-1988 and was underscored in the
December 1987 workshop.



- 9 -
C. Institutional Issues Outstanding and
Government Plans
Institutional Issues Outstanding
1.31      To develop an efficient economic management system in the
medium-term the Government needs to (i) strengthen its economic analysis
and planning capacity substantially; (ii) create a new public finance
management system; and (iii) speed up the implementation of the
administrative reform in order to permit the effective management of the
civil service. Major institutional issues and operational deficiencies in
these three areas described below.
1.32      Economic Analysis and Planning.  Economic analysis And planning
fall under the responsibility of the MPCI, a ministry with a limited number
of sufficiently trained and experienced staff, especially economists. The
MPCI includes four general directorates carrying out operational
responsibilities: Statistics (DGSI), Planning (DGP), Public Investment
(DGIP) and International Cooperation (DGCI).
1.33      While MPCI's organizational structure is appropriate, major
improvements are still necessary in the way operations are conducted. The
weakness of the statistical base makes it difficult to assess economic
performance, representing a major handicap for economic management. In
1986 and 1987, DGSI initiated surveys (on households and enterprises) which
require a follow-up. Its current objective is to establish a system to
gather and update information regularly on important parameters such as
enterprise production, trade volume and consumer behavior. There is also a
need to complete the ongoing survey on the informal sector with a view to
determining its contribution to GDP and to employment creation.
1.34      DGP has primary responsibility for undertaking economic works and
policy analysis in MPCI. Despite the effort made by the MPCI recently in
the context of the staff selection process, DGP's staffing i1 .1arkedly
weak. As a result, DGP lacks the capacity to monitor key economic
indicators, conduct policy-oriented macroeconomic studies and formulate
sound development strategies. Most of DGP's work over the last three years
has been carried out by the technical assistance personnel.
1.35      The overall structure for project evaluation and arbitrage
functions exists within the DGIP which comprises four sector divisions
(agriculture and agroindustries, industry and energy, infrastructure,
social sectors) and a finance division. Despite recent improvements, the
public investment program (PIP) still does not pay adequate attention to
recurrent cost implicatione and the intersectoral linkages between
investment projects. Moreover, the annual tranches of the PIP are not yet
translated into the budget properly. The project portfolio remains of
uneven quality. Feasibility studies and project evaluation documents exist
only to the extent that they were undertaken by aid agencies. The limited



- 10 -
capacity of technical ministries to conduct such studies and the DGIP's
limited ability to perform its economic evaluation, screening and selection
functions need also to be addressed.
1.36      Public finance management.  One of Guinea's major development
constraints is the overwhelming reli&ace (for almost 80 percent of fiscal
revenue) of the Government on revenue emanating from the bauxite sector.
This renders the public finance situation excessively vulnerable to
developments in the international aluminum market. Consequently, a major
policy objective is to expand the non-mining tax effort, leading to an
increase in non mining revenues from about 4.5 percent of GDP in 1988 to
7 percent by 1993. The increase in resource mobilization will be generated
primarily through institutional reinforcement which is expected to lead to
a steady increase in tax and custom duty collection. There will also be a
need to place and maintain stringent controls on the level and nature of
expenditure if the budget deficit estimated at 7.6 percent of GDP
(excluding grants) in 1988 is to be progressively reduced to about
5 percent in 1993 as planned.
1.37      These important aspects of Guinea's structural adjustment program
fall primarily under the responsibility of the MEF, an overstaffed ministry
(3,000 employees to be reduced to about 2,000) which needs a major
overhaul, starting with a revision of its organizational chart. The MEF
lacks a budget classification framework which (i) clearly distinguishes
between investment and recurrent and operating expenditures by category and
item; (ii) allows proper monitoring and accounting of all resources and
expenditures of the Government by budget items; and (iii) provides full
budgeting of all investment projects together with details on their funding
from internal and external sources. Also, the MEF estimates revenues and
expenditures poorly, has highly fragmented and delayed knowledge of the
status of budget execution, public accounts, and the Government's liquidity
position, and is weak in mobilizing domestic budgetary resources due to
poor tax and customs duty collection.
1.38      Administrative reform and management of the civil service.  The
difficulties in proceeding expeditiously with the administrative reform
have revealed the critical importance of the institutional dimensioln in
Guinea's adjustment process, and therefore the need to design institutional
reforms carefully and realistically. First, the staff census encountered
practical problems which delayed its completion by about a year. Moreover,
the absence of a properly equipped unit to follow up on the staff census
has hampered the civil service management component of the administrative
reform. Second, despite substantial achievements, the MRAFP often failed
to set its priorities clearly. It became involved in too many activities
at the same time, in some cases duplicating responsibilities of other
agencies: staff testing, preparation of organizationel structures, design
of administrative reform for local government, preparation of a budget
framework law and budgetary procedures, management of the public enterprise
sector reform, etc. This has generated resistance from other ministries
and agencies, and reduced the efficiency of the MRAFP whose limited
resources became overstretched.



- 11 -
1.39      Consequently, despite the initial steps taken under Phase I, much
remains to be done to create a new administration, staffed with fewer but
competent and motivated staff performing on the basis of clearly defined
regulations and procedures. New organizational structures (cadres
organiques) are yet to be developed for a number of ministries and for the
local administration, and operational procedures need to be defined for all
ministries and agencies. Staff testing and selection which have been
undertaken in 30 percent of the ministries so far, need to be completed to
permit staff assignment, improvements in employment conditions and
effective in-service training. In addition, there needs to be a permanent
personnel information system and efficient central and sectoral personnel
units to implement the civil service policy changes.
Government Plans for the Second Phase of the Recovery Program
1.40      Economic Objectives and Policy Agenda.  Under Phase II, the
Government will pursue an adjustment strategy aimed at achieving sustained
growth of incomes and private investment in the medium term, and fostering
the participation of the poor in the process of economic growth. Guinea's
basic economic and financial objectives, as incorporated in the SAL II
medium-term scenario, are to (i) achieve an average annual rate of economic
growth of about 4 percent through 1993, predicated on a strong private
sector supply response to the planned improvements in infrastructure and
the favorable policy environment; (ii) curb the rate of inflation to one
that by 1990 would approximate that of Guinea's main trading partners; and
(iii) raise the rate of national savings from about 13 percent of GDP in
1988 to 18 percent of GDP in 1993, and hold the current account deficit to
less than 4 percent of GDP starting in 1989.
1.41      To achieve these objectives, the Government is committed to
consolidating the market-oriented economic system through inter alia (i) a
policy of flexible exchange and interest rates, (ii) further liberalization
of trade and prices (reform processing of import applications, full-cost
pricing policy for food-aid rice), and (iii) continued restructuring of the
public enterprise sector including liquidations, privatizations and the
restructuring of a limited number of enterprises to remain in the public
sector.
1.42      Current government strategy regarding technical assistance for
economic management. The Government's agenda for Phase II includes a major
effort to strengthen the management of the economy. While creating a
liberal policy environment during Phase I dld not require a continuous
effort from most government agencies, the susstainability of the adjustment
process and the achievement of medium-term economic growth will critically
depend on improvements in economic management. Today, strengthening the
major government departments and reinforcing their ability to combine and
coordinate their operations are fully recognized as one of the highest
priorities.
1.43      In order to bring about the needed improvements, the Government
has developed a strategy aimed at long-term institution-building



- 12 -
objectives, not just short-term remedies. While the Government
acknowledges the need to utilize substantial foreign expertise in the short
and medium term, it places emphasis on (i) defining clearly the
responsibilities of governLment agencies and units; (ii) adequately staffing
the units expected to benefit from technical assistance operations;
(iii) developing efficient and easily applicable administrative and
operating procedures; (iv) developing the professional skills of selected
staff through intensive training prograt   to create a lean and efficient
civil service; and Cv) coordinating effectively technical assistance
operations financed by various donors. This strategy to be supported by
the proposed EMSP II, will enable the Goverrnment to tackle effectively the
weaknesses of its institutions and progressively overcome the deficiencies
in the country's economic management mechanisms.



- 13 -
II. THE PROJECT
A.   General
Project Rationale
2.01      The proposed credit will provide technical support and training
necessary to strengthen economic and financial management and improve the
civil service system. The Project is critical for the successful
implementation of the Recovery Program supported by SAL II (approved in
June 1988) and to the substantial improvements required in revenue
collection, expenditure control, public investment programming and
budgeting and the implementation of investment projects. The Project will
also serve to enhance aid coordination in the area of technical assistance
for economic management.
Proiect Concept
2.02      The Project is designed to support the Government's strategy
outlined above (para. 1.43). It represents an integrated package of
mutually supporting operations (short- and long- term technical assistance,
training, studies and financing of equipment and vehicles) which, over a
period of four years, will strengthen substantially Guinea's economic and
financial management capacity.
2.03      While emphasizing training, particularly on-the-job skills
development, the Project takes into account the current shortage of civil
servants sufficiently qualified to contribute effectively to the timely
implementation of the Recovery Program. Consequently, the Project offers a
combination of two types of technical assistance, namely: (i) job-focused
assistance, giving priority to the timely delivery of specific services and
the production of specific outputs by consultants (reports, notes, economic
data), and (ii) long-lasting institution-building assistance, which
emphasizes skills development through the active participation of qualified
nationals in activities where consultants are used.
Project obiectives
2.04      The two goals of the Project are to support long-term
institution-building while providing short-term remedies to the current
weaknesses in the management of the national economy. This combination of
short- and long-term concerns is refla ted in the specific Project
objectives which fall into three interrelated broad categories:



- 14 -
(a)  strengthen key government functions (planning and investment
programming, public finance management, management of the public
enterprise sector and management of the civil service) through
the introduction of measures to improve analytical capabilities
in the MPCI, revenue collection and expenditure control in the
MEF, the personnel management system in MRAFP and economic and
financial legislation;
(b) facilitate the implementation of the Recovery Program by
reinforcing the ability of the Government to carry out,
coordinate and monitor the activities set out in its Statement of
Development Policy (SAL II);
(c)  strengthen the Government's capacity to train public sector staff
expected to contribute to the development of a lean and efficient
civil service, and provide effective proressional training in the
areas of economic and financial management and administrative
techniques.
B. Proiect Description
2.05      The Project will consist of the following six components:
(a) economic analysis and planning;
(b) public finance management;
(c) administrative and civil service reform;
(d)  professional skills development;
(e) other direct support to the Recovery Program including:
(i) assistance to the BCRG focusing on the oversight of
commercial banks; (ii) a legal assistance program; and
(iii) studies and other short-term technical assistance needed
to support the structural adjustment program; and
(f) monitoring and coordination of economic and institutional
reforms.
2.06      Most of the technical assistance and training programs described
in the following paragraphs will be accompanied by the provision of
equipment and office supplies, including computers necessary for the
development of efficient operating systems (i.e. civil service roster and
payroll, budget preparation and execution, customs administration, economic
modeling). The elements of the Project and their expected results and
timing are summarized in Annex I. Annex II includes a table on the main
training programs.



- 15 -
Economic Analysis and Planning
2.07      Component obiective.  The objective of this component is to
strengthen MPCI's analytical capacity, focusing on statistics,
macroeconomic analysis and investment programming, areas in which
substantial improvements are needed (paras. 1.32 to 1.35).
2.08      Project support.  Following up on the activities undertaken under
the TA Project, the Project will provide 15 person-years of resident
specialists and about 50 person-months of short term consultants. In
addition, the MPCI will receive computer equipment and related office
furniture, software and supplies and a vehicle. The base cost of this
component, which will be mainly financed by IDA and AfDF, is estimated at
US$ 3.8 million equivalent representing about 17Z of total project base
cost.
2.09      In the area of statistics, DGSI staff will be assisted by three
resident specielists:
(a) a principal statistician will be recruited for three years to
advise the Director General of DGSI in (i) setting the
operational objectives and preparing the annual work programs for
the directorate; (ii) developing regulations and procedures
relating to data collection and the use of statistical
information; (iii) supervising the work of DGSI's Divisions and
providing technical support for the preparation of various notes
and reports; and (iv) establishing adequate liaison with other
MPCI Directorates and other Government agencies;
(b) a statistician/economist specialized in survey techniques will be
provided for two years to help DGSI prepare and carry out a
number of surveys and disseminate the results properly.
Following up on the work initiated over the last three years, he
will ensure that the relevant data are collected in a timely
manner for the monthly price index and the preparation of
national accounts; and
(c)  a national accounts specialist will be financed for two years to
strengthen the capacity of the (DGSI) to compile national
accounts.
2.10      Concerning economic analysis, a macroeconomist will work over a
period of three years, with a team of about four nationals headed by the
Director of DGP (and in close coordination with the Senior Economic Advisor
to the Minister financed under the IDA special technical assistance
program), on policy-oriented macroeconomic studies and matters relating to
the formulation of national development strategies. Each year, when the
budget is being finalized, the DGP will produce a report which situates the
budget and the three-year rolling PIP in a five-year macroeconomic
framework, highlighting the major medium-term development constraints and



- 16 -
the key policy measures to be implemented. The DGP will also prepare
biannual reports on the current economic situation (Note de conioncture).
The macroeconomist will also help the DGP continue the economic modeling
work started recently with a view to refining and expanding the
macroeconomic model of the Guinean economy.
2.11      To make the three-year rolling PIP an effective management tool,
there is a need to continue to refine the programming process and
strengthen DGIP's capacity to review and screen projects. The Project will
offer a comprehensive package of assistance including:
(a) an Investment Programmer for three years, who will advise the
Director and help him supervise DGIP's divisions. In particular,
in coordination with DGP staff, he will help ensure that the
public investment program is consistent with national priorities
and existing budget constraints and that the investment budget is
part of a realistic financial program which makes adequate
provision for the Government's contribution to recurrent and
capital expenditure. He will also concentrate on analyzing the
intersectoral linkages of the PIP, on screening project ideas and
proposals, and on monitoring project execution;
(b) a Sector Economist/Project Analyst recruited for two years who
will focus on strengthening DGIP's sector divisions, developing
procedures for the preparation of project evaluation, supervision
and completion reports. The latter will help Government agencies
draw the lessons from previous experience;
(c) short-term consultants needed for the preparation of major
projects and the review of more complex project proposals; and
(d) a training program in project appraisal (para. 2.88) which will
also improve the quality of analysis in the DGIP.
2.12      Principal results expected from this component include: (i) a
stronger computerized economic data base and timely preparation of national
acc3unts; (ii) improved medium term projections and monitoring of
macroeconomic indicators; (iii) better screening of projects on technical,
financial and economic grounds and improved programming of public
investments based on coherent sector strategies; and (iv) imprived
expenditure control as the three-year rolling PIP is translate, into the
annual budget.
Public Finance Management
2.13      Coiaponent objective.  The Project will help the Government
implement a comprehensive reform of its public finance management system
including:
(a) rationalizing the internal organization of the MEF and each of
its directorates;



- 17 -
(b) adopting regulations pertaining to the preparation and
execution of the budget (Loi Organique and R6glement Financier)
which (i) spell out the responsibilities of each agency in the
budgetary process; (ii) set a strict calendar for the preparation
of the annual budget; and (iii) make the annual budget a legally
binding document signed into a law;
(c) adopting three important codes at various stages of preparation
(customs, tax and procurement), and a business accounting
framework law; and
(d) establishing odequately staffed units in MEF's directorates
to enable them to apply the new laws and procedures.
2.14      The publication of the ArrAt6 defining the functions of MEF key
directorates (Budget, Treasury, Tax and Customs) will be a condition for
Credit effectiveness.
2.15      Project support.  Under this component, estimated at US$5.8
million equivalent (26 percent of total project base cost), the Project
will finance about 35 person-months of short-term consultants, 30
person-years of resident specialists including (i) a training/personnel
management advisor and a senior economist both advising the Minister; (ii)
two to three advisors in each of the directorates of Budget, Treasury and
Customs; and (iii) one expert each in the Debt and Procurement Divisions,
and a legal advisor, (para 2.34). The MEF will also receive vehicles,
computer equipment, related software and supplies and office furniture.
This will include the assistance needed to help computerize customs
declarations based on the UNCTAD/ASYCUDA (Automated System for Customs
Data) system.
2.16      The French aid agencies, FAC and CCCE, which have been closely
associated with the preparation of the Project, have indicated their
readiness to finance the services of the trairing/personnel management
advisor, the senior economist and most of the assistance to be provided to
the Budget, Treasury, Tax and Customs Directorates. In parallel with the
Project, CCCE will also finance the construction of temporary facilities to
provide office accommodation to a core team of MEF staff while a new
ministry building is under construction. The proposed Credit will finance
the services of the legal advisor, the debt and procurement specialists and
equipment, including that associated with the implementation of ASYCUDA.
2.17      This component was prepared in close coordination with the IMF
which has already provided the Tax Directorate with a resident advisor and
will help the Government develop new tax regulations and procedures.
Project support to the Tax Directorate will, therefore, concentrate on
enhancing collection through the creation of central taxpayer files and the
establishment of tax returns verification teams.
2.18      Major results expected from the public finance management
component include: (i) improved budget preparat-on and increased



- 18 -
efficiency in budget execution; (ii) a broader revenue base due to
incre&sed tax and duty collection; and (iii) increased efficiency in debt
management.
Administrative and Civil Service Reform
2.19      Component obiective.  The objective of this component is to help
the Government carry out its action program for the administrative and
civil service reform. The program includes:
(a) reorganizing central and local administration through the
adoption of new organizational structures and staffing patterns
(cadres organiques) in each ministry and prefecture, and the
implementation of the new organization, giving pr.lority to the
core ministries responsible for economic management (MPCI, MEF,
MRAFP) and one pilot prefecture;
(b) adiusting the size and the composition of the civil service
through staff testing, separation of those who fail the tests
from the civil service, progressive and selective recruitment of
better qualified persons; and
(c) upgrading administrative performance through careful staff
assignment, in-service training, improved supervision, better
employment and working condiEions, increased efficiency of
agencies responsible for personnel management and effective
functioning of a personnel data system.
2.20      The Project will help the MRAFP establish a permanent system to
better manage and monitor the public personnel situation through (i)
rehabilitating the master personnel files and computerizing personnel data
processing; (ii) putting in place the new organization of the Civil Service
Department and strengthening the personnel units in the ministries through
better selection and staff training; and (iii) improving the coordination
between central and sectoral personnel units. The Project will also help
MRAFP complete the census of prefectoral staff, test the remaining staff,
and carry out the staff selection program. As a condition for Credit
effectiveness, civil servants selected pursuant to the testing and
evaluation operations in MPCI, MEF, and MRAFP should be assigned to
positions authorized by the Cadres Organiques of their central departments.
2.21      In addition to providing support to the MRAFP, the Project will
assist the Ministry of Decentralization (SED) in initiating a pilot effort
by helping to establish one prefecture according to the new administrative
structure designed for the prefectures.
2.22      Proiect support.   This component, which is estimated at US$3.5
million (about 16 percent of total Project base cost), will be primarily
supported by UNDP (US$2.1 million) under a second phase of its technical
assistance program to the MRAFP. Fourteen person-years of resident
specialists and 30 months of short-term consultant services will be funded



- 19 -
by UNDP, including 24 months each of expertise in public administration,
personnel administration, financial and payroll procedures, personnel
information systems, administrative organization and procedures, local
administration and staff evaluation. The proposed IDA credit will cover
(i) the costs of about 30 months of short-term consultant services to
update the 1986 staff census and for staff testing and selection for a
uumber of key ministries (refinancing of SPPF and PPF); and (ii) office
equipment, microcomputers and vehicles. In addition, the Project will
finance staff training programs in the country and overseas which directly
support the administrative and civil service reform (para. 2.29).
2.23      Expected Results.  Major outputs will include (i) regular
publication of reliable data on civil service employment and payroll;
(ii) completion of the staff testing and selection process leading to a
core civil service staff of about 50,000 persons (a reduction of about 14
percent in the ac ive civil service in 1987); (iii) improved personnel
policies and procedures; (iv) improved organization of agencies responsible
for personnel management; and (v) better qualified staff. The overall
result is expected to be a marked improvement in the preparation and
implementation of the Government's economic and financial policies.
Professional Skills Development
2.24      Component objective and general presentation.  The objective of
this component is to help the Government raise the level of competence and
efficiency of employees of key agencies responsible for economic
management, and strengthen its civil service training capacity. This
objective will be pursued through a combination of institutional support,
development dnd implementation of training programs, felowships and
assistance in developping the professional skills of young cadres with
solid educational backgrounds who may be interested in joining the civil
service.
2.25      About US$3.8 million equivalent, or 17 percent of the total base
cost of the Project, will be allocated to this component. The Project will
finance training programs in Economic and Financial Management, Project
Appraisal and Management, Busiaess Accounting and Audit, and Administrative
Techniques and Persennel Management. The details of these programs are
given in Annex II. In addition, the Project will initiate training needs
assessment exercises in MEF and MPCI, and emphasize effective on-the-job
training which is an integral part of the Government's strategy for
long-lasting institutional strengthening. Consequently, before any
resident specialist reports for duty, the Government will communicate to
the Association for comments, the names and qualifications of his national
1,ounterparts.
2.26      Training needs assessment.  Under FAC financing, a resident
training/personnel management advisor will be provided to the MEF (para
2.15). One of his roles will be to facilitate the establishment of
effective working relations between the technical assistance personnel and
the national counterpart cadres and monitor the process of transfer of



- 20 -
skills and know-how. He will also be responaible for organizing a
training-needs assessment exercise in the MEF, and helping the Governemnt
establish efficient personnel management procedures in MEF in coordination
with MRAFP staff. Another training neecs assessment exercise will be
conducted under IDA financing in the MPCI with the assistance of short-term
consultants and in coordination with the CNPG, a training institution
strengthened under the TA Project and which will provide adequate follow-up
to the training-needs assessment in MPCI. Finally UNDP-financed experts
will assess tralning needs of MRAFP staff. The training-needs assessment
reports will be transmitted to the Association no later than September 30,
1989 for the MPCI and March 31, 1990, for the MEF and MRAFP.
2.27      CNPG's training programs.  The Project will support the
continuation of the professional training programs initiated under the TA
Project at the CNPG and introduce two new training schemes. In order to
reduce the costs of these programs, and build on its experience so far, the
CNPG will intensively utilize local technical assistance personnel and
lecturers from neighboring countries. The CNPG will continue to offer (i)
a training program in economic and financial management (12 months on a
part-time basis) which provides each year refresher courses to about 60
officers and managers from various ministries and agencies; and (ii) a
training program in business accounting and auditing, executed with the
assistance of ILO and designed to disseminate Guinea's new Business
Accounting Framework and facilitate statistical data collection and
taxation. For the period of 1989-91, these two training programs target a
total of about 1,000 trainees for seven types of seminars, six of which
will be repeated several times each year.
2.28      Under IDA financing, a training program in project
analysis, preparation and supervision will be developed in the CNPG and
carried out by a training officer with considerable experience in project
analysis and management courses. The program will be tailored to the
specific needs of MPCI s DGIP staff and the planning units of technical
ministries.  In addition to short courses and seminars, the training
officer will visit the trainees regularly at their offices, on a
predetermined schedule, and provide appropriate clarifications and guidance
in liaison with their supervisors and technical assistance partners.
2.29      Administrative techniques and personnel management.  The Project
will help the recently established training unit of MRAFP (the Centre de
Perfectionnement Administratif - CPA) develop and carry out training
programs in administrative techniques and procedures, office management and
personnel management. A key objective in developping these programs will
be to adequately match curricula, training material and methodologies to
the needs of the Guinean administration. Consequently, as a first step,
appropriate resources will be devoted to designing in-country short-term
training programs specifically tailored for various levels of
responsibility: support staff, middle level staff, professionals and
mavs'gers. An initial allocation of US$300,000 equivalent will help the
MRAFP prepare the training programs and launch CPA activities.



- 21 -
2.30      Fellowships and Junior Professional Program.  The proposed Credit
provides for US$0.6 million equivalent for a Fellowship Fund and US$0.3
million equivalent to support a Junior Professional Program. The
fellowships will help broaden the knowledge and develop the expertise of
promising public sector personnel in the fields of economic management,
public finance, statistics, public administration, banking and law. The
ber2ficiaries will spend up to 12 months abroad in universities, training
i4stitutions, or agencies performing the same functions as their respective
ones at home. Whenever possible and with due regard to staffing
constraints, beneficiaries will be sent for training in teams in order to
maximize the impact of training when they return. The selection of
trainees and training programs to be financed through the Fellowship Fund
will be subject to IDA approval.
2.31      The Project will also enable the four key ministries and agencies
responsible for economic management and administrative reform (MPCI, MEF,
MRAFP and BCRG) to recruit, under contracts of up to 24 months, a selected
number of young Guinean professionals (up to 35 years old) with solid
educational backgrounds but with limited work experience. Given the
current budget constraints and, in the short term, the difficulties in
identifying qualified civil servants who can act effectively as
counterparts to the technical assistance personnel, the Junior Professional
Program will facilitate the achievement of such project objectives as
transfer of know-how and professional skills development. About 15 junior
professionnals will be recruited under the program. A junior professional
who performs satisfactorily will have the choice of joining the civil
service at tne end of his assignmient accordi..g to standard government
recruitment procedures. The selection, qualifications and terms and
conditions of employment under the junior professional program will be
subject to approval by the Association.
Other Direct Support to the Recovery Progr
2.32      Assistance to the central bank (BCRG).  This component of the
Project has been prepared in close coordination with the IMF which
continues to assist the BCRG by providing an advisor to the Governor, an
accounting advisor, and one advisor in each of the Foreign Exchange and
Credit departments (para. 1.11). However, the IMF assistance does not
address BCRG needs in two areas:
(a)  First, the BCRG lacks the necessary skills to properly monitor
the operations of the commercial banks, particularly their costs,
profits, quality of portfolio and liquidity position. As a
result the central bank is not in a position to fulfill its
oversight function effectively and, in particular, monitor
compliance with regulations on the basis of a thorough
understanding of the conditions under which commercial banks
operate. At times, this situation has adversely affected the
dialogue between BCRG and the newly established commercial banks
which have played a key roe in the success of the monetary
reform during Phase I and which are expected, during Phase II, to



- 22 -
increase their levels of lending, particularly investment
lending.
(b)  Second, improvements are needed in the preparation of balance of
payments statistics. Data provided by customs, the commerce
department, the BCRG and the MEF are incomplete and often
difficult to reconcile.
2.33.     Under the Project, USAID will finance two resident specialists
for a total of four person-years. One of them will help establish BCRG's
Banking Sector Division, develop its capacity to analyze documents
submitted by primary banks, help carry out in situ inspections at regular
intervals, and provide on-the-job training as appropriate. He will also
contribute to BCRG's effort geared towards improving the institutional and
regulatory framework of Guinea's financial sector, including such
regulations as those related to commercial banks' prudential ratios and
profit margins. The other resident specialist will develop a system for
the timely preparation of Guinea's balance of payments by the BCRG and
provide appropriate training to Guinean staff in that area.
2.34.     LeRal assistance.  To address the current shortage of qualified
and experienced lawyers in Guinea, the Project will provide a package of
legal assistance in support of the ongoing economic and financial reform
program. It will finance the services of a law firm which will provide
about 80 person-months of long term assistance and about 12 person-months
of short term assistance to the CCEF, the MEF, the General Secretariat of
the Government (SGG) and the Ministry of Justice. The legal advisors will
assist by (i) compiling existing laws in the economic and financial areas
and establishing a legal data base; (ii) drafting and commenting on drafts
of new legislation to reflect the Government's policy choice for a liberal
economic system and to ensure internal consistency in the legal framework;
(iii) reviewing recent economic and financial jurisprudence; (iv) drafting
contracts between the Government and suppliers, foreign investors and
lenders and assisting in negotiations; (v) assisting the MEF, the SGG, and
the Ministry of Justice in organizing their legal services and work
programs; and (vi) training civil servants in the areas of legal drafting,
negotiation and enforcement and organizing seminars on current legal issues
for law practitioners and businessmen. In addition, the Project will
finance a vehicle, equipment and supplies in support of the above
activities and for the publication of the Official Gazette (which is
currently issued with a delay of about two years).
2.35      Under the Project, the Government has undertaken to reduce the
delays in the publication of the Official Gazette to a maximum of three
months by December 31. 1989.
2.36      Other Activities.  An amount of US$1.0 million (about 7 percent
of the proposed credit) will be allocated to finance studies, short-term
technical assistance and other activities that the CCEF feels necessary to
support the structural adjustment program, part of which has already been



-* 23 -
identified and part of which will be determined during Project
implementation.
2.37      The already identified assistance will help the Government
proceed with its public sector restructuring program and, in particular,
develop and implement a legal and institutional framework redefining the
relations between the Government and public enterprises. The program will
also introduce a performance-based system of public enterprise monitoring
and evaluation, including the preparation of performance contracts. Funds
are also likely to be used for policy-oriented macroeconomic studies.
sector reviews and feasibility studies.
MonitorinR and Coordination of Economic and Institutional Reforms
2.38      As indicated earlier, the Recovery Program has suffered from the
absence of a monitoring and coordinating body at the technical level (para.
1.28). Under AfDF and IDA financing, the Project will help the Government
establish and operate a Reform Monitoring Unit (RMU) composed or three
Guinean professionals, which would report to the Chairman of the CCEF and
act as its Secretariat. The principal officer of the RMU will be
designated Coordinator of the Recovery Program (the Coordinator). His
appointment will be a condition for Credit effectiveness. Other cadres of
the RMU will be the Project Administrator (para. 4.03) and an
economist/operations officer.
2.39      The terms of reference of the RHU emphasize its coordinating and
monitoring role avoiding any duplication of responsibilities with
ministries. The RMU will be responsible for (i) reviewing dossiers to be
discussed in CCEF meetings; (ii) monitoring the effective implementation of
decisions taken by the CCEF; (iii) preparing concise quarterly progress
reports on the Recovery Program indicating achievements and steps to be
taken for each of the measures included in the Government's Statement of
Development Policy and the Action Program annexei to it; (iv) coordinating
the technical work necessary to facilitate the dialogue between the
Government and Guinea's major donors on the execution of the Recovery
Program; and (vi) managing the Project.



- 24 -
III.  PROJECT COST. FINANCING. DiSBURSEMENTS ANT) PROCUREMENT
A. Project Cost and Financing Plan
Proiect Cost
3.01      The Project will provide about 75 person-years of resident
specialists, 18 person-years of short-term consultant services, short-term
local training, fellowships, equipment, furniture and vehicles. The total
cost, net of taxes, is estimated at US$25.4 million equivalent. Foreign
exchange costs amount to US$15.9 million or about 62 percent of project
costs. The cost of consultants per person-month (including salaries,
housing and other allowances, travel and cost of recruitment) is in line
with Government estimates for expatriates with similar qualifications
currently employed. Base cost estimates are in September 1988 prices.
3.02       Contingencies amount to US$3.2 million, representing 12.6
percent of total Project cost, net of taxes. Physical contingencies of 3
percent on resident specialists, and 5 percent on equipment and vehicles
and incremental operating costs have been included. Price contingencies
for foreign exchange costs have been incorporated on the following basis: 3
percent in 1989 and 1990, and 1 percent thereafter. Price contingencies on
local costs have been calculated on the basis of 30 percent for 1989 and
1990, and 20 percent thereafter. Project costs by component and nature are
provided in Annex III.  Tax elemen'rts are estiated at US$2.4 million
equivalent.
Financing Plan
3.03      The Project will be financed on a parallel basis by IDA, UNDP,
AfDF, FAC, CCCE and USAID. Confirmation of UNDP. AfDB. FAC, CCCE, and
USAID financing is a condition for effectiveness. Annex IV and V give the
project financing plan by components and nature of costs. A summary is
provided below:
Taxes Excluded            Taxes Included
Source of Financing       US$ million   2         USS million    X
GOVERNMENT                   0.9       3.6              3.3    12.0
IDA                         14.5      57.1             14.5    52.1
UNDP                         2.2       8.6              2.2      7.9
AfDB                          2.5      9.9              2.5      9.0
FA"                          2.8      11.0              2.8    10.1
CCCE                         1.2       4.7              1.2      4.3
USAID                        1.3       5.1              1.3      4.6
TOTAL             25.4    100.0             27.8   100.0



- 25 -
3.04        The Government's contribution, estimated at US$0.9 million
equivalent (taxes excluded), will finance operating costs including the
salaries of an accountant and a secretary, the services of local staff
associated with the surveys, office supplies and consumables. To ensure
that the Government's contribution is available when needed, the Government
will establish a special Project account to finance expenditures incurred
under the Project. At the beginning of each quarter, it will deposit the
amount necessary to finance its share of local expenditure as identified in
the work programs. Setting up of such an account with an initial
Government deposit of US$50,000 equivalent is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
3.05      The proposed IDA credit of US$14.5 million equivalent, or 57
percent of total project costs (taxes excluded), will finance the services
of resident specialists and short-term consultants, equipment, furniture,
vehicles and operating costs (maintenance contracts for equipment and
office supplies).
B. Disbursements, Procurement, Accounts and Audits
Disbursements
3.06.     The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a period of six
years, compared to a Regional Disbursement Profile of seven and a half
years (Annex VI). This is feasible given Guinea's good disbursement record
under the TA Project (para. 1.12).  Expenditures to be financed out of the
proceeds of the proposed credit are the following:
IDA Disbursements
Amount of the
Credit allocated        2 of
(US$ thousands       Expenditure
Disbursement Categories                   equivalent)       to be financed
Cat 1     Office equipment and vehicles        2,450                 1002
Cat 2     Consultant services                  9,150                 100l
(including junior professionals)
Cat 3     Fellowships                             300                1OO0
Cat 4     Operating costs                         900                 802
Cat 5     Refund of SPPF and PPF advances         700                1002
Cat 6     Unallocated                           1,000
Total                        14,500



- 26 -
3.07       A Special Account of US$150,000 (equivalent to about GF 75
million) will be established upon credit effectiveness. These funds will
be managed by the Project Administrator (para. 4.03) to cover project
expenditures and replenished by IDA on the basis of eligible withdrawal
requests. Replenishment applications will be submitted on a monthly basis,
except for incremental operating costs and training activities conducted
locally which will be disbursed against statements of expenditures with
underlying documentation held available for review by IDA missions. Should
any disbursements be made from the special account which are not acceptable
to IDA, the Government will deposit the corresponding amount in the Special
Account or refund it to the Association.
Procurement
Procurement Arrancments /
ICB      LCB      Other        N.A.      TOTAL
--------------------US   million-----------------
Nature of Costs
Resident Specialist*                      12.4                   12.4
(5 6) /                (5.6)
Short-term Consultants                     4.1                    4.1
(S.8) k/               (8.8)
Equipment, Furnituro    1.4 d    2.1                              8.6
and Vehicles          (1.0) /  (1.5)                             (2.6)
Operating Costs                            2.?                    2.7
(0.9) /                (0.9)
SPPF A PPF refinancing                                  0.7       0.7
(0.7)     (0-7)
Fe llowships                                            0.7       0.7
(0.8) i/  (0.8)
Junior Prof. Prog.                                     0.8        0.8
(0.2) :/  (0.2)
Activities to be Identified                1.0                    1.0
(1.0)                  (1.0)
TOTAL                   1.4      2.       2.2           1.7      25.4
(1.6)    (1.5)    (21.8)        (1.2)    (14.5)
.1 Amounts in parentheses indicate IDA financing. Parallol financing by othor donors will
be under their own procurement procedures.
b/  Services to be procured following IDA Guidelines for the use of consultants
c/  Estimated at 40U of equipment, furniture and vehicles to be procured
d/  Following Governmnt procurement procedures
*/  Includes local and International travel costs, tuition and per dim
f/  Details of compensation package for Junilor Professionals to be determined



- 27 -
3.08      Services.  The Government will recruit the specialists to be
funded under the Project for technical assistance or studies either
directly under individual contracts or through consulting firms.
Concerning the UNDP and FAC-financed specialists, the recruitment will be
made through the United Nations Department of Technical Cooperation and
Development (UNDTCD) and the ADETEF, respectively. The selection,
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment for all
advisors financed by IDA will be subject to approval by the Association.
3.09      Goods.  Items will be grouped to the extent possible to encourage
competitive bidding. Packages of equipment and vehicles valued at
US$100,000 equivalent or more will be procured through international
competitive bidding (ICB) according to Bank guidelines. Subsequent changes
to contracts cleared with IDA, totalling less than 10 percent of the value
of the contract, will not need further review. Contracts for purchase of
goods of less than US$100,000 but anore than US$25,000 will be awarded
following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Minor items costing
US$25,000 equivalent or less, in a total amount not to exceed US$500,000
equivalent, will be purchased through quotations from not less than three
reputable suppliers. All contracts estimated to cost more than US$25,000
equivalent will be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement
documentation.
Accounts and Audits
3.10      The Government will maintain separate accounts for all
expenditures made under the Project. The accounts and statements of
expenditure vill be audited each year by external auditors acceptable to
IDA. The audit reports will be submitted to IDA no later than six months
following the end of the Government's fiscal year. Agreement to this
effect was obtained at negotiations.



- 28 -
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management and Coordination
4.01      The overall responsibility for the execution of the Project will
rest with the CCEF which also holds the responsibility for the execution of
the structural adjustment program. To facilitate the timely implementation
of the Project in coordination with the structural adjustment program, the
Government will (i) entrust to the RMU the primary responsibility for the
management of the Project; (ii) appoint a Project Administrator; (iii)
appoint Chiefs of Operations responsible for the implementation of
individual Project components; and (iv) establish a Project Management
Committee (PMC). Annex VII provides the Project organizational chart. The
designation of the Chiefs of Operations, the appointment of the Project
Administrator, and the establishment of the PMC will be conditions for
Credit effectiveness.
4.02      Management of Proiect components: the Chiefs of Operations.
Given the specificity of each major component, there is a need to
decentralize the management of project activities and provide sufficient
flexibility to facilitate the delivery of expected results. To this end,
each major agency (MPCI, MEF, MRAFP, BCRG, CNPG) assisted by the Project
will designate a Chief of Operations to be responsible for the proper
implementation of his component. Under the authority of their ministers
and acting as task managers for their respective components, the Chiefs of
Operations will be responsible for organizing and directing the work of
consultants and their Guinean counterparts and monitoring the
implementation of their components to ensure continued focus on the
objectives of the Project. Each year, they will prepare budgets based on
annual work programs specifying the operational objectives of their
respective components and the distribution of responsibilities among
Guinean staff and technical assistance personnel. The Chief of Operations
for the Legal Assistance component will be the counterpart to the resident
legal advisor attached to the CCEF.
4.03      Proiect administration: the Project Administrator.  Within the
RVIU, a Project Administrator reporting to the Coordinator of the Recovery
Program, will provide overall administrative support for Project activities
and manage investment and recurrent expenditures of the Project in
coordination with the Chiefs of Operations, The Project Administrator, who
will be assisted by an accountant/administrative officer, a secretary and a
driver/messenger will (i) help the implementing agencies prepare their
annual work programs; (ii) assist in the procurement of goods and services
to be financed under the Project; (iii) ensure coordination among
implementing agencies and between implementing agencies and project
cofinanciers; (iv) prepare disbursement requests and administer the Special
Account; (v) maintain project accounts; and (vi) prepare biannual progress
reports on project implementation.



- 29 -
4.04      Project coordination: the Project Management Committee.  The
Project Administrator will chair a Project Management Committee (PMC)
including the six Chiefs of Operations indicated above (para. 4.02). The
PMC will meet at least once a month to (i) review progress in proiect
implementation in light of the policy obiectives of the recovery program:
(ii) consider the results of each component: (iii) review financial and
administrative aspects of project implementation; and (iv) prepare for
discussions with cofinanciers. In addition to routine reporting by each
Chief of Operations to his minister, the PMC will report, through the RMU,
to the Chairman of the CCEF on all policy questions and keep the CCEF
regularly informed about progress in project implementation, and the
administrative and financial situation of the Project.
B. Project Implementation and Monitoring
Proiect Implementation
4.05      The Project will be implemented over a four-year period,
excluding the nine months of activities begun before effectiveness and
financed from the PPF advance and cofinanciers' contributions. The
estimated completion date is March 31, 1993. The closing date is June 30,
1994.
4.06      A key feature of project implementation will be the annual work
programs prepared for each component by the Chief of Operations. Serving
as flexible planning, implementation and monitoring tools, the annual work
programs will be formally approved by the CCEF. Typically, an annual work
program will include: (i) a summary evaluation of the previous year's
performance; (ii) a statement of monitorable objectives to be pursued and a
description and timetable of the activities to be carried out to achieve
those objectives; (iii) technical assistance personnel required and
national counterpart professionals selected and their qualifications and
training objectives; (iv) detailed budgets and financing plans as well as
procurement program. Draft annual work programs for each year will be
submitted to IDA and cofinanciers for review by October 31 of the preceding
year, before being finalized by the PMC and transmitted to the CCEF for
Approval by December 31.
4.07      The identification, preparation and supervision of all studies
and training programs will be carried out with the assistance of resident
specialists financed under the Project. Such studies and programs,
including the award of any fellowship and the signing of any junior
professional contract, will be subject to prior approval by the Association
based upon supporting documentation which will include a detailed
justification, plan of execution and supporting services to be provided.
The RMU will be responsible for submitting proposals to the CCEF for the
utilization of funds under the unallocated category of disbursements under
the proposed credit.



- 30 -
4.08      To assist in the recruitment of technical specialists and to
facilitate the proper implementation of the Project, the Government has
decided with the concurrence of IDA to engage two outside agencies: the
United Nations Department of Technical Cooperation and Development
(UNDTCD), and the Association pour le Developpement des Techniques
Economiques et Financieres (ADETEF). UNDTCD will continue to be the
executing agency for the UNDP-financed activities in the area of
administrative and civil service reform. FAC-financed specialists will be
provided through ADETEF, a nonprofit organization of the French Ministry of
Finance specialized in the delivery of technical assistance for financial
management. In addition to identifying the specialists required for the
implementation of the Administrative Reform and Public Finance Management
components respectively, UNDTCD and ADETEF will provide the necessary
back-up to their field staff and conduct supervision missions whose
findings will be transmitted to the Association.
4.09      Resident specialists and short term consultants not provided by
UNDTCD and ADETEF will be recruited in accordance with procurement
procedures acceptable to IDA (para. 3.08) mainly through consultancy firms,
but also on an individual basis when warranted. Terms of reference for the
resident specialists listed in Annex I were reviewed during Negotiations.
The Association's approval of contracts for resident specialists will be
subject to the Gover.ument having made available the required Guinean
professional and support staff and related office facilities. In cases
where sufficiently qualified civil servants are not readily available to
act effectively as counterparts to a resident specialist, the concerned
agency will undertake to recruit Guinean nationals with adequate
educational background under the Junior Professional Program (para. 2.31).
4.10      Training activities will be carried out under the overall
coordination of the Director of CNPG who will be responsible for preparing
the annual work programs and the progress reports related to the
professional skills development component. ILO will continue to assist the
CNPG in implementing the training program in accounting and auditing.
While the CPA will closely coordinate its activities with the CNPG and
intensively utilize its facilities, it was felt advisable not to overload
the CNPG with training programs for which it does not have the expertise
and that need to be desi-ned in relation with Government activities in the
area of administrative and civil service reform.   Consequently, CPA
training programs will be developed, prepared and implemented with the
assistance of consultants hired specifically for that purpose, under the
supervision of MRAFP's senior officials.
Proiect Monitoring and Reporting
4.11      The Project Administrator will ensure that biannual progress
reports are prepared by March 31 and September 30, for each proiect
component and will report on the administrative aspects of the Project
every six months. The progress reports will summarize the achievements,
the difficulties encountered and the changes or adjustments to be made.
Each year. by June 30, the Project Administrator will produce full annual



- 31 -
progress reports to be transmitted to the CCEF and the Association. In
addition, the agenda and minutes of the PMC meetings will be prepared by
thie Project Administrator and made available to IDA and cofinanciers. Upon
completion of the Project, the Project Administrator will prepare a
completion report providing a comprehensive evaluation of the project
results. Finally, resident specialists and nationals recruited under the
junior professional program will prepare quarterly reports on their
activities.
C. IDA Supervision and Donor Coordination
4.12      In addition to the technical and administrative support expected
from UNDTCD and ADETEF, IDA will devote an adequate amount of staff
resources (including staff resources of the Resident Mission) to ensure
proper supervision of the Project. At the initial stage, Bank jtaff will
monitor the finalization of contracts relating to the recruitment of
experts and the purchase of equipment. A Project launching workshop will
be organized in February 1988, soon after Credit effectiveness, to review
with the Chiefs of Operations, the technical assistance personnel and their
main Guinean counterparts, the operational objectives of each component and
the detailed actions to be taken to meet these objectives.
4.13      After Project launching, there will be intensive supervision
aimed at ensuring that the expected results will be achieved including, in
particular, that (i) the policy objectives of the structural adjustment
program are fully supported by actual Project activities and (ii) the
experts work effectively with their designated counterparts in carrying out
the specific tasks included in the annual work programs. To facilitate
Project management and donor supervision, provisions have been made under
the proposed IDA Credit to finance the services of independent short-term
consultants who will conduct detailed annual reviews of the implementation
of individual Project components. The reviews will highlight the policy
and implementation issues to be addressed and make recommendations for
improvements. About twelve supervision missions by independent consultants
will be organized with an average duration of a week in the field.
4.14      During negotiations, the Government confirmed its agreement to
utilize short-term consultants to assist in the implementation reviews of
the Project and to discuss the reports and recommendations of such
consultants with IDA. The review reports of the consultants will be
transmitted to IDA each year before April 30, starting in April 30, 1990.
4.15      One of the central features of the Project is the involvement of
six donors (IDA, UNDP, AfDF, FAC ,CCCE, and USAID), which is designed to
enhance aid coordination in the area of technical assistance for economic
and financial management (para. 1.29). The project objective of improved
donor coordination will be actively pursued dt'ring Project implementation.
IDA and all co-financiers will share and discuss supervision reports



- 32 -
prepared by UNDTCD, ADETEF and consultants including the supervision
reports of the independent consultants refered to in para. 4.13. Joint
supervision missions will be arranged among the cofinancing agencies, with
IDA as the lead agency. All future initiatives related to technical
assistance for macroeconomic management will be discussed with the other
donors before being finalized. Upon Credit effeectiveness, the above donor
coordination arrangements will be confirmed by exchange of letters among
the cofinanciers.
D. Status of Proiect Preparation
4.16      Several Project components have started or are ready to start
upon Credit effectiveness expected January/February 1989.  The Government,
which is gener'lly satisfied with the performance of the experts recruited
under the TA Project and the UNDP-financed Administrative Reform Support
Project (Prodoc No GUI/85/OOP), has indicated its desire to renew most of
the contracts. Consequently, about 50 percent of the resident specialists
to be financed by IDA, AfDB and UNDP have already been identified and will
be in the field in January/February, 1989 when the Project starts. The
other 50 percent will be identified prior to credit effectiveness with the
intention of posting them also in early January 1989.
4.17      Concerning the administrative reform, about US$ 300,000 from
Cr 1559-GUI has been utilized to speed up the staff selection process,
including staff testing in the MEF and the MPCI. Additional funding was
provided through a project preparation facility (PPF) advance of US$455,000
which was approved in June 1988.
4.18      Following up on on-going seminars, the CNPG-managed training
program will also start in January 1989. Curriculum and training material
are already available, lecturers have been identified, and the selection of
trainees for the 1989 program in economic and finanacial management will be
completed by the end of November 1988.
4.19      Bids relating to the legal assistance program were evaluated
according to IDA procedures and the firm selected by the Government in July
1988 is acceptable to the Association. The contract will be signed shortly
and the CCEF resident legal advisor is expected to report on duty by the
end of November 1988.
4.20      The public finance management component will be launched
gradually because of office-facility constraints. Until June 1989, only
five resident specialists will be posted in the MEF while the CCCE-financed
temporary facilities are being built. All technical assistance positions
in the MEF should, however, be filled by the end of September 1989.



- 33 -
V.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      The overell outcome of the Project will be the effective and
timely implementation of the second phase of the Recovery Program, and
substantially strengthened Government agencies capable of formulating and
implementing sound economic policies leading to sustained economic growth
in the long term. Specific Project benefits will include: (i) a stronger
economic data base; (ii) better-prepared investment projects and improved
programming of investments taking into account macroeconomic and financial
constraints; (iii) improved financial management, both in terms of revenue
collection and exrenditure control, based on sound regulation and
procedures; (iv) a reliable civil service personnel data system and
improved public personnel manangement procedures; (v) a coherent set of
economic and financial regulations; and (vi) the availability of a number
of nationals better trained and equipped to perform effectively in the
context of a liberal economic system.
5.02      The Project faces three major risks.  First, the implementing
agencies will be under pressure to carry out the reforms expeditiously.
This may stand in the way of achieving the long-term institution-building
objectives of the Project including the effective transfer of know-how.
This risk should be minimized by the emphasis put on streamlining the
distribution of responsibilities among government agencies, developing new
procedures, selecting suitable counterparts and closely monitoring
training activities including on-the-job training. Second, the large
number of activities to be undertaken under the Project and the involvement
of five major Government agencies and five donors may create implementation
and coordination difficulties. The Project management and implementation
arrangements have been designed, as a result, to provide sufficient
flexibility, efficient leadership, and effective coordination. Third,
successful Project implementation will require the continuous commitment of
the Government to fully implementing the economic and institutional reforms
included in its structural adjustment program. Given the profound changes
that the adjustment process is introducing in the social fabric, there is a
risk that resistance of interest groups benefiting from the status quo
could, at times, delay the implementation of reforms and, thereby affect
the Government's ability to achieve some of the Project objectives in a
timely manner.



- 34 -
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Conditions and Agreements
6.01      Aareements confirmed at Negotiations:
(a) each year the MPCI will produce a report which situates the
budget and the three-year rolling PIP in a five-year
macroeconomic framework (para. 2.10);
(b) before any resident specialist reports for duty, the Government
will communicate to the Association for comments, the names and
qualifications of his proposed national counterparts (para.
2.25);
(c)  the Government will transmit the reports on training-needs
assessments to the Association no later than September 30, 1989
for the MPCI and March 31, 1990 for the MEF and MRAFP (para.
2.26);
(d) the selection of trainees and training programs to be financed
through the Pellowship Fund will be subject to IDA approval
(para. 2.30);
(e) the selection, qualifications, and conditions and terms of
employment for the junior professionals will be subject to IDA
approval (para. 2.31);
Cf) by December 31, 1989, the Government will have reduced the delays
in the publication of the Official Gazette to a maximum of three
months (para. 2.35);
(g) the selection, qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment for all resident advisors and short term
consultants financed by IDA, will be subject to approval by the
Association (para. 3.08);
(h) all contracts for goods financed by IDA and estimated to cost
more than US$25,000 equivalent, will be subject to the
Association's prior review of procurement documentation (para.
3.09);
(i) each year, by October 31, the Project Administrator will submit
to the Association for review, draft annual work programs by
component for the following year. The final version of the work
programs will be submitted to the CCEF by December 3x (para.
4.06);
(j) biannual progress reports for each project component and reports



- 35 -
on administrative aspects of the Project, will be transmitted to
IDA by March 31 and September 30 (para. 4.11);
(k) full annual progress reports will be transmitted to the
Association by June 30 each year (para. 4.11);
(1)  the Government will employ consultants to assist in the
implementation reviews of the Project and discuss the reports and
recomendations of such consultants with IDA. The review reports
of the consultants will be transmitted to IDA each year before
April 30, starting in April 30 1990 (para. 4.14);
(m) the Government will establish (i) a Reform Monitoring Unit (RMU)
led by a Recovery Program Coordinator and including the Project
Administrator, and (ii) a Project Management Committee (PMC)
composed of the Project Administrator and six Chiefs of
Operations res,ponsible for the execution of individual project
com?onents (para. 4.01 - 4.04).
6.02      Conditions for Credit effectiveness will be:
(a) that civil servants selected pursuant to testing and evaluation
operations in MPCI, MEF, and MRAFP have been assigned to
positions authorized by the new cadres organigues of their
central departments (para. 2.20);
(b)  signature of the Arrgte defining the functions of MEF
directorates: Budget, Treasury, Tax and Customs (para. 2.14);
(c) that the conditions for the effectiveness of the UNDP, FAC and
USAID grants and the AfDF and CCCE loans, if any, except for
the effectiveness of the proposed Credit, shall have been
fulfilled (para. 3.03);
(d)  opening of a counterpart funds account in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association and initial Government deposit of
the equivalent of US$50,000 (para. 3.04);
(e) the appointment of the Recovery Program Coordinator, the Project
Administrator and the Chiefs of Operations and establishment of
the PMC (para. 4.01).
B. Recommendation
6.03      On the basis of the above assurances and conditions, the Project
is suitable for an IDA Credit of SDR 11.3 million (US$14.5 million
equivalent).



- 36-
12-Oct-88                                   CLtNEA                                                                   ANNEX I
Second Economic Management SupPort Project                                            Page 'I of 6
Main Project Activities and Expected Results
PROJECT COMPONENT             OBJECTIVES/EXPECTED               LOCATION          TYPE OF ASSISTANCE    :PERSON/ :INCEPTION DATE/ IMP-:
RESULTS                                        OR ACTIVITY           :MONTHS   LEMENTATION PERIOD
I. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
AND PLANNING
_ __ __   _   _   __ __ _   __ _   _  __ __                                       :---  ---   ----_-- - - - - - -  ----- --: -    
Resident apecialists            180
MPCI/Minister's  :IDA Special Advisor
office        (pour memoirs)
Statistics                  :Data collection, analysis             MPCI/DGSI      :Senior Statistician         ;     36 S      1/89
and dissemination
:National accounts                24        1/89
Preparation of national         :                      pecialist
accounts
:Statietician                     24        1/89
Economic Analysis           :Economic modelling and                 MPCI/DOP      :Macroeconomist                    36        1/89
and planning                 biannual revision of macro-
:economic framework incl.
:5-year economic projections
Review of recent
economic developments and
short-term prospects
:Studies and reports on
:development strategies and
:policy reform measures
Investment programming and:Annual preparation of a                 MPCI/DCIP      :Investment Programmer           S3         1/89
monitoring of project       :3-year rolling PIP
execution
:Oiannual report on PIP          :Economiet/project analyst:                            24        1/89
:execution and annual roport on:
:individual project execution
:Trainer in project
:analysis and manogement
:Initiation of project                                :(RE. Section IV)
:complstion reports
Miscellaneous                                                         MPCI        :Short-term consultants            50
MPCI        :Equipment and vehicles
01/89 - 01/92
:Operating expenses
-- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - -- - -- - - -- - -- -   --:--   - -- - - --  - -- - - --  - -- - --  - - -- - --  - -



- 37 -
12-Oct-88                                  GUINEA                                                                  ANEX I
Second Economic Management Support Project                                           Pageoof a
Main Project Activities and Expected Results
PROJECT COMPONENT             OBJECTIVES/EXPECTED              LOCATION          TYPE OF ASSISTANCE    :PERSON/ :INCEPTION DATE?/ 1P-:
RESULTS                                        OR ACTIVIY           -.MONTHS  :LDBTATION PERIO
II. PUBLIC FINANCE
MANACEMENT
_ ___ ____ ____ _____    ___ _                               :                    _    _---  - - - - - - - ---     --------
Resident specialists            386
Economic and financial    :Strengthen MEF ability to            MEF/Minist.ers   Training/pereonnel                So       01/89
policy formulation and       analyse the seonomic and               office       :managemont adviaor
coordination of the         financial situation and
public finance management  define policy options.                                :Economic advisor                 3        01/89
reform                      :Contribute to the
:implementation of Government
decisione relating to budget                        :Legal advisor  24 p/a.
ellocations, taxes, dobt                             (*ea Section V.8.)
etc.
Budget                      Preparation and enactment of         MEF/ Budget    -Advisor to the Director           38s       01/89
annual budget                       Directorate
Biannual report on the                             i:udget execution                  24       09/89
:eaecution of the budget         :specia ist
:Establishment of a reliable                         TA for est4bliswent of            24       01/89
and regularly updated                               :payroll systea
:Government payroll system
Treasury                   :Establishment of a coherent         MEF/ Treasury   :Adviaor to the Director           a8       01/89
:public accounting system           Directorate
:Public accounts *pecialis:      24        09/89
:Ragular production of
-statements providing the
:consolidated public finance
:Situation
Taxes                       :Improved collection                  iMEF/ Tae      :Advisor to Ithe Director                  10/88
Directorate    :IMF TA program - 36 p/a
:Rsvised Tex Code                                    :TA for development of a          12       09/89
:taxp.yer& roster
Customs                     :Improved duty collection           iMEF/ Customs   :Adviaor to the Director           as       09/89
Directorate
:TA for launching and            24        09/89
:Establishment of mobile                             :superviting inspection
:inspection unite                                    :unite
;Strengthening customa data                         :TA for implementation            29        09/89
system                                               of ASYCUDA
Debt management            :Comprehensive debt date          :MEF/Budget         :Advieor to Division Chief:       24       01/SQ
:system (stoci end debt          :Di rectorate/Debt
:service). Assistance in 'ebt   Division
:rescheduling negotiatiors
Procurement                  Implementation of new             MEF/ procurement :Advisor to Division Chief:        24       01/89
wprocuremant code                      Division
Miscellaneous                                                        MEF         :Short-term consultents          S3
MEF         :Equip, and vehicles
06/8  - 01/92
:Operating Cxpenses
---                               -        --                --               -------



- 38 -
12-Oct-88                                    CUINEA                                                                    ANNEX I
Second Economic Management Support Project                                              Page 3 of 5
Main Project Activities and Empected Results
-_ -__ -__ -_-_-_-_____ -_ __   ------------------------------  ------------------_---------------_--------__    --------__-------_----:--:----
PROJECT COMPONENT              OBJECTIVES/EXPECTED               LOCATION           TYPE OF ASSISTANCE    :PERSON/ :INCEPTION DATE/ IMP-:
RESULTS                                         OR ACTIVITY            MONTHS  :LEMENTATION PERIOD
III. ADMINISTRATIVE AND                                                                                               l0o
CIVIL SERVICE REFORM                                                                                        --------
:Rocidont specialists             168::
__________________________                                                           ------ ----- -----------     -- -- -   -- - -- - -- - -- -
Coordination and              Increased internal consistancy:MRAFP/Minister's  :Senior public &ector                   24
monitoring of adminis-    :and better intogration of the :            office         eanagement advisor
trative reform               :Administative Reforms with the:
:other elements of Recov. Prog.:
Civil service staffing    :Adjustment of staffing                  MRAFP/Civ;l       Date processing                   24        01/8^
:according to service              Servants Oirector.:apecialist
:requirements
:Regular production of                                 :Personnel anagement               24        01/89
:rmliable data on the                                  -specialist (staffing
quantitative and qualitative                          :control and management)
:eituation of State employees
:Specialist in financial          24        01/BO
:personnel management
:Improved management in both
:currant operations and
:forecosting of future needs
MRAFP        :Personnel management              24        01/80
Administration of public  :Appointment and training of                              :specialist (admin.
sorvices                     :DAF staff in key ministries                 :procedures and
:and pilot prefectures                                 :regulations)
:Production of procedure
:manuols for the                            :           Administretive
:administration and financial  :organistion specialist                                    24        01/80
:managsment of personnel
:emo item: S LNV                            01/80
:Production of procedure                               oresponsible respectively
manuals for the management of                         :for computer software,
:national asents and supplies.                         ;equi-ment maintenance
:and training of relevant                              :and documentation
:officiala
Improvement of               ;Design and establishment of            MID/SED        :Specialist in local               24        01/8Q
organisation and              a new administative structure         and IRAPF       :adeinistration
procedures of pilot          :for the prefectures and
prefectures and              communities
communities
:Implementstion of the new
:adminiatrative structure in
:one prefecture and one or two i
:communitiee
Miscellaneous                                                         MRAFP         :Support missions                  30
:                  :                    ~~~~~                  ~ ~~      ~~:--------------  - -------
.Equipment and supplies
:Maintenance and
:consumables
:Reimbursement SPPF & PPF
------------------------------------------------------------------------          --        ---------------------__----------_-------______-------



- 39 -
12-Oct-88                                   GUINEA                                                                   ANNEX I
Second Economic Management Support Project                                            Page 4 of S
Main Project Activitiee and Lx pected Results
PROJECT COMPONENT             OBJECTIVES/EXPECTED               LOCATION          TYPE OF ASSISTANCE    :PERSON/  INCEPTION DATE/ IMP-:
RESULTS                                        OR ACTIVITY           :MONfTH   :LE4ENTATIGN PERIOD
                   ~~~~~~~~~::
IV. Tra in i ng * ct iv i te
___ ___ ___  __ ___ ___ __ -- - - - -                                              --  - - - - -  - - - ----    -------
Analysie of personnel       :Evaluation of MCPI and MEF    :mEF                    Specialist in peraonnel           24        01/89
training and                :train;ng needs and                                   :aanagam.nt/trsining
crganiestional needs         astablishment of a pereonnal  :(sea Section II)
:policy with integrated
:training dimension              :MPCI                :Evoluation of training
Regular production of summary :needs end monitoring of
:roports on expert/counterpart                        :expert/counterpart
relations                                             relations in MCPI will
:ba the responsibility of
:the CNPO Directorate
Training of officials in   Upgrading of approx O180            National            :Advisor to the Director          36
economic and financial       offic;als by a one-year          :Management
management accounting       :int.nsivo course entitled        :Training Centra                                                 01/8S
techniques                   'Training in                     :(CNPG)             :Trainer in project                86
:financial/economic                                   ;analysis and management
administration and evaluation':                      :(eupporting DCIP and                       01/SO
*                   :technical ministries)
:            :                   :                           :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- - - - - - -- -- - - - -
:Training through short                               :Financlng the services           as
:cour-ss and seminars of                              :of trainers and
m'pte.  t1150 officials in                            motivatora (of which
:otatistico. economic analysim.:                      :approx.401 will be
:and project analysis and                             :recruited loclly or In
management                                           :neighbouring countries)   -----------------------------
:Equipment, teaching
materials and consumabloe:
:Disaemination of the now
:uinean Accounting Charter by                                                     -----------------------------
.training in accounting *nd                           :Operating costs CNP
:audit
Training of officials and  Preparation and launching of  :Adeinistrative           i) Financing consultancy
others responoible for    :training/aensitization             :Training Centre    services for preparation
implementation in admin.   activities aimed at officials :(CPA) du MRAFP    :of training and
techniques and               and othero responsible for                           :sensitization programs.  :
oenmitisation to improved :implementation and intended                             :and II) financing
work attitudes               to improve (i) personnel and  :expertise and logisticis                                         6/88 -12/89
:oupply management methods in                         :for CPA activities
ministries (ii) work
attitudes (iii) admin.
:procedurse and practices
:MRAFP and CNPC    :Financing (;)                             1/80 -12/92
Development of national                                                            :scholarhips, for
expertioe                                                                          :extended study/short
:coursea abroad (ii)
:junior consultants in
:key ministrise
__--___--___ ______--_------_ --__ --_ __ ----_ -----_____ ----_-__ --------_-_. ----____-__--_--____ ___________ ____ --_ --__ ____________ ___________ ______ -____



- 40 -
12-Oct-88                                      UZINEA                                                                      ANEiX I
Second Economic Management Support Project                                                 Pege Sof a
Main Projoet Activities and ERpocted Rosults
PROJECT COMPONENT               OBJECTIVES/EXPECTED                LOCATION            TYPE OF ASSISTAN*E    sPERSON/ aINCEPTION VATE/ IMP-:
RESULTS                                           OR ACTIVM              :MONTHS  aLEMENTATION PERIOD
V. Other support for the   i                                     ,                     *
Recovery Program
:                   z                    ~~~                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  I    
__.___________________ -  ________                                                      ................... ____  __...... .............  
A. Money and Banking
--------------.:--___--_______---__-------.....------------------........____________........................I ____-I-------.. 
Resldent TA                        48
tEetabliehment of a Banking                 BCRO         aTA to Banking Affairs .            24 i      01/89
:Affaire Division responsible   a                        :Division                     a         a                       a
Ifor monitoring of and             I                     a                             a         a
dialogue with primrery banks    a                       ,                             a         a
:Improving preperation of                                : aEconomi e*tatieticion      a     24        01/89
abalance of payment. and                                 I                             I                                 I
smonetery statieticse   and        a                     amo item: IMP TA              I         a
iregular production of the                               : Includingi Government       I         I
BCRO quarterly bulletin                                  :odvieor.TA in                a         a
I                    aascounting,credit and        a         a                        a
Iforelgn exchange            a          a                       a
l : l ~~~~~~~~~~~~-_------------------------.    _ -------- _____.------------------... __________._
.Equuipoent                             a 01/89 - 12/89
B. Program of legal
assiatance                   a                                                                                                  
*                         X                     X                             s         t a  * 
Strengthening the legal    Coherent economic and                          CCEF         aLagel assistance             a    102 9       11/88            a
capabil1itiea of the          afInaneial legislation             I         HJ          sprogreaa  8 reident          a         a                       a
dministration                ireflecting tho Oovernment's o              MEFI         :dviaore o  ehort-torg        a
aeconomic policies                 a        SaO          amissiono + logiatical        I
Ia                   ind data proseeing            a         a                        a
aContracto and conventiono s       a                       upport (global contract):             a                       a
aconcluded in the beat             :                         I ::  a a                 a         a
:interests of the Nation           a                     a                            a          a
:Traening of Ouinean legal         I                                                   a
advisors and strengthening of i                         *                                       a
the legal capabilities of the                           .                             a 
,Administration
:Fortnightly publication of                              :Financial aesoietnce for                         1/8Q
athe Official Bulletin;                                  :the printing of the
:publication of major economic a                         :Official Bulletin            a
:and financial textes within                             :through privete sector   a             a
:one month of signature                                  .ccontract                    a         a 
:Filing of the Bulletin and        a                                                   I         I a
t lgegl instruments e
-- - -- ---- --- -- --- --            --- -- -----   :------ -- ------                 -   --- ---------- -----__ _ _----_-_ __ __--__________ 
C. Other Activities            to be determined
VI. Coordination and
monitoring of the                                                                                                                I/88 - 12/92
Recovery Program and
rnagegaent of the Project  Facilitate the preparation of                               aSupplieosoffico
:recommendations and                                     :equipment end vehicles
:decison-taking at CCEF level :CCEF/PREF
monitoring unit   :Operating costs
Monitoring of operations.
coordination of reform                                  :Consultants short-term
:reasurema,nd rogular
production of PREP progresa
reports
------------



- 41 -
12-Oct-88                                          GUINEA                                          Annex ll
Second Economic Management Support Project
Main Training Programs
Title            Ecoromic and Financial       Project Arnlyeit .nd        Accounting and Auditing    Administrative technics
Management Course            Manangement                                              and Personel management
Objectives       1. mastery of basic          1. Ability tv unalys9,      1. Deassminste the now       Overall objective:
concepts, and snalytical   prepare and su.ervizs         accounting fromework         inerese the efficiency
tools and technics of       the execution of             within the Covernment        of key ministries and
economics, statistics,       investment project.         and in private and           agencies by helping the
pub, financo, management                                 public enterprises,          staff acquire the
train about 20 trainers    administrative mthods
and technics called for
by the Governmnt
2. ability to apply         2. Incresed efficiency    2. Introduce auditing in   administrative and civil
those concepts and tools   in a number of divisions   a nuaber of enterpriess,   service reform
in work environment         in ministries and Covy       enhance their mangerial    (specific objectives to
agencies                    capability                   be determined)
!natructional   1. Common module (440 H):  1. Series of standart                                       Programs to be
Program          introduction/refreesher    seminars (averaging 5 to                                   determined for various
to the basic concepts.       10 days) on the technics                                 levels of
tools and tech.iics         of financial and                                          Pesponsibiltiea
indicated above             economic analysis of         Series of seminars and       (managers, cadres, and
projects, and on project   discutsions in the            support staff)
2, familiarization with    management                    enterprises on
.uinean economy (72 H):                                  accounting, auditing,
lecturoe, visits and        2. Visit by the lead         financial management,
seminars-discussions         instructeur to each         computwr utilization,
participant at regulur      and  management of SME.
3. Fox- apecialisation       intervals (and group
modult. (360 H each):       discussions) to provide
offering in-depth review   adequate follow-up
of methods, analytical      utilizing the dossiers
tools and technics           actually in process
(statistics, economic
analysis and planning,
investtments programming
and management, public
sector management)
Delivery
Management    CNPC manseoment team         CNPO mgt team and            CNPO  Mgt team and IL0       HRAFPs, training unit
Dir. Coneral of DCIP                                     (CPA)
Preparation   CNPO with assistance of    CNPC, DCIP, Planning           CNPC with IL0 a*sistanco   CPA and consultants
Consultants                 units of tech, ministries
Delivery      CNPC instructours and        CNP  instructeurs,          CNP0 Instructeure and        To be determined
con-ultatants               participants                 ILO staff and consultants
supervisors, consultants
Participant.
Profile       Middle managers and          Cadres of ministries         Cadres of Covernment         Managers, cadres and
cadres of ministries         and agencies involved       agencies, projects           support staff of key
and Covw  agencies           in project preparation      units, public and            ministries and agencies
and management              private enterprises
Number         60 (about 1S for each       About 25 for each group    Groups of 20 to 25             To be determined
specialieation module                                    persons in average
(about 1.000
Schedule
Duration       12 months (part time)        6 months including          Variable duration of         To be determined
fol low-up                  cyclee from r0 to 15 days
Frequency     once a year                  S groups each year           12 seminars each year        To be determined
Dates          Jan. to Dec.   1989,        Starting Jan. 1089           Starting Jan. 1989           To be deteroined
1990, and 1991
Location        CNPGi, Conakry               CNPC and concerned           CNPG, Conakry                CNP0 and other lccations
---_----                                     ministries, Conakry                                       to be determined



- - - - - - - - - - - - - 7 - Z   - - - - - - - - - G - - - - - - --   - - - - - - - - - - - 7 Z - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - 7 Z; - - - - - - - - -7'Z - - - - -
0 0 0                     0 0 0 0        0                a a 0 0 0 0            0 0 0 o           0 0 0 0  : -      0 0 0 0  11
rn ;u                                                             I         , m  gp  Ln
..Mwm                                 c rn
1. Iol  J .0  n       0                                  S- 1. . I :                              1. Iol
0                                                                 0                   0
n               3                           0    0        3  0 0               3 0 1               .2                I            09
3                                                                                                       0
T la m                       0      a (A   0                              a Ca
0                       m      00  0               00  0 .1       m  a  o n'   S   w0  0 1.
S                                                  elI .1                            el elI       10
D.                   o                          n
0                                                                              0                   0
el
0                    0
0
01
C.
7Z ------ 7----  -----                  7-------- 7----   --- 7 -------  ---- 7----------- 7---------- 7-------- 7-7-:
I.-    0                                   00'      ":WO                                  C.Oosso                                 -too.
0         1           ,                                                                                          .              .
7 7          7- - - - - - - - - - 7     7- - - - - - - - 7- - - - - - - - - 7 - - - - - - - - - - - - 7- - - - - - - - - - - 7- - - - - - - - - - 7- - - - - - - -
1,           0                                                                                                                          TD    m
..80               -8         00.       w  C.0           W"OO    Om                                                                       m I  A
77 ------  ----------  ----  -------- 7--------- 7 ------------ 7----------- 7---------- 7-------- 7-7n.
In   k,                                                                                                                                                     z
v 8' 8'                              10 8          11 81                                   8 8 8
0                                                                 t  11  :C 4 C,
------------ 7---------                                    ---------
la 00 0        C.                                                                                               .1 oz
-7 ---------- 7 ---- 7 -------- 7--------- 7 ------------ 7----------- 7---------- 7--------  -
m
C. a
0    o     o N                          oomoco            00                        0 co
----  --------------                                              ------------  ----------- 7---------- 7---------
---------- 7------
M
0                                                                             0:      0
7---------- 7 ---- 7 -------- 7--------- 7 ---------                                    ------- 7---------- 7--------
!a                                 On
0
T     Z                                                    10 & !? 0",   . -
.0 0                           0  --C.               :0!                                  -000 0             m
---------- 7             7-------- 7--------- 7 ------------ 7----------- 7---------- 7--------
r r                                                                                                 Im
..W. (D
- - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -
-7 ---------- 7------------- 7---------------------- 7-----------
C.
9:8C.,
O O                 0
----------------------------------------------------------------  ------------------------



0071    00          1                nO~~~ 70        0             0            0              0   000a0           10                 0  0  0     0       I0   070                        *  00                 7
0   O    1 *7                            0      0    0                         O        I lC                    C        0       I                   O    C          I).                m0           .c                 C O
*  .  I   10~    C,-I               C c - -              0   I S             0-~-~-.                10                    -  *-         *0.            -  -       -        0                  C  - 
0      07I                                                7      0     0         7         I-1 0                        000                                0 07       I-0                      7      I                     
0~~  0.                              00~.    01       0      0                                    0-c n                                cnnn.                               01 101,           l                -- 
- -  -  --  -     0-  0   IC                                    --------------                                                                    - 7-0--  c-                             -  -n  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -.-I-  -  -  -077 -              11---0   
- - -   -    1  0  0   -  -                                          -  -      -     -      ---                  - -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  --        -  -   - - -    -  I- -   -  -      -  -      -  -     -   -    I--        -  -   -     -  -I
1-4                         01                                                 71                              1 .1                                                     O S        c          -                  01           S                   C.        I
10                <01          C                                   .!0                       <0        C17                 -              0         -                                                                                                 10
7  ~~~I7  0   7~~~~         10             a                   ItO                7C  S   .                        7Z
In                                                                                                                                                                          "w  0n  I*    1    I          0IC0                                           
------  -  -                                                                                                                                                                                  -   -12- -    -0  -  -C  -  -1--0  --           -0 -I 
IC                      0 0             .            0OOa                                                      rI                    O     0   0            0      -           0              10   0         SI                        o0                      IIis
10,  C      I            .0                                                                   In C~~~z  O O      t  m                lB       7                                                   L.             .0                       10                    I            03
ICC  0  I  0                                 I        7                             10       0                          10      4.                      I        0                      IC                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,0 
1l      0                I            7                                                                   I        00 I0S 0-                                                         Ia mo                           I         7                      Io80  0 
*  -  I                                                  IV        -                             17                                 I 10     -                      I        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     --     -   -I-0
In  I  -                                                                1                                      I        04                         10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ---      -I                     -   -   -I--7
10400                                                                                                              01 I0 -0 0 008  Ioo o                        -0 0                                                 I         o           I0
101            0I0                                                                                                  IC  0 00 0  .I 0..a                                                      10 0 0o   I.         A                       i.    00
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s~~~~~ ~                                                                             -   I-    - -       -  -1      - I--   - I       -  --       - --I           - --          - -      -       -    0 -   -     -   - -           I
to     to                                                                                                     ro~~~~~~~- I-                    C          
'O             O                 (3                !   10  31 (31t                0  I 00
1101  0I~~~~06      ~     ~               ~         .                        SO.        s                                                                                                                              ' 10011  l 00                 I
-                                                                                                                                   -    -   -   -   -   -                - -  -  -  -  -   -                         - - -     -  -  -   -                   
003  0.l*-    ~     ~     ~     ~      -- -II-I  I    -14.40                        -  -o -                                ---------                                              -    -  -  -044- 



-4 4
12-Oct-8                                                                                             ANMEX V
GUINU
SECOND ECONOMIC MANADBT SUPPORT PROJECT
PINANCINO PLAN BY NATURE OP COSTS
(US$ Thouccnda)
-----------_-__--_-_---_----_----__-_____-_----_--___--__-________----_----_-__-_-__._---__--------_-_--_-_-____-_-_-___--
I                                                  I COSTS    I  QOVT    I   IDA    I  UNDP    I  AfDOS    I   FAC    I  CCC!    I  USAID   I
-------__--___--_--------.-- --_-_-_____----_-_-_---_---__--____-----__--_---__-__-_-___----__--__-------__-___--_----__--
I                                  I          ~      ~    ~      ~     ~~~~~I  I  I  I           I           I           I            I
fRealdent Sp.c)ial)ta                              I  12,430 1          0 |   8,898  I   1,686             6 B48 1   2,400 |   1.200 |          701  I
IShort-torm Conaultant.                                4,042 l          0      8,270  I       878 |       200 l       200  I         0            0
lEQuip., Furnit. A Vehicles                       1   8,527             0 1   2,430  1           0|        444 1         s01          0 1       am  I
I           ~I                              I                  I           I           I            I           I            II
I04aratInh Coat,                                  l   2,7S01 9l50                 9 89S1        e 81       711           8 0s1        01           0
ISPPF & PPF Refinancing                           I      700 l             l      700 l          0           0 
lFellowship,                                      1      60 1              I      SOO 0         60 1       200 1        100 1         0 1          0 1
I                                    ~I           I           I            I           I            i           I                          I
iJ'nior Professlonal Program                             t SOO1                  200            0         100 I             I           I            I
I           ~                                     IIII                                              I           I            I           I
Other Activitlie                                  I   1,000 1       I          1,000  I         0           0 O            I           I
l     TOTAL (Not of 'axe.)                        l  258.88 l         960 I  14,467  I   2,200 I   2,80  I   2,800 l   1,200 l   1,284 6
i   nf total fCt of tax.                       l   100.0  I        8.7  I    88.9          8.7 1        9.8        11.0 l        4.7  I      8.1  I
I  I        i           I            I           I           I            I           I            I
I     Taxes                                       l   2,435l   2,43S    t                           I           I            I           I            I
I                                    ~     ~     ~      ~    ~      ~~I  I  I  I       I            I           I            I           i
I     TOTAL (Including taxes)                     I  27,829 I    3.1 8B 1      14,487  1   2.200 |   2.00 1   2,800 |   1.200  |   1,284 
l  S of total (taxo.   Included)                  l   100.0 1        12.2 1    82.0  I         7.9 I       9.0  I    10.1 I         4.8  I      4.6
l---------------------------------- I                                      I            I           I                         - ------



- 45 -
GUINEA                        ANNEX VI
SECOND ECONOMIC MANAGE.'ENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Estimations
IDA               --------(US$000) -------       Cumulative       Cumulative
Semesters         Semesters    Cumulative        PercentaRe       Reg. Profile
1989   I
II         1,400          1,400                9                1
1990   I           1,500          2,900              10                 5
II         1,500          4,400               30               11
1991   I           1,500          5,900              41                20
II         1,500          7,400               51               29
1992   I           1,500          8,900              61                39
II         1,500         10,400               71               49
1993   I           1,000         11,400              79                59
II         1,000         12,400               85               68
1994   I             800         13,200              91                77
II            800        14,000               97               84
1995   I             500         14,500             100                90
II                                                             99
1996   I                                             -                100



- 46 -
ANNEX VII
GUINEA
SECOND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Organization Chart
C C E P
(Ministerial-level economic and fiinancial
coordination committee)
REFORM MONITORING UNIT
Recovery Program Coordinator
Project Administato
PROJECT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Project Administrator
and six Chiefs of Operations
responsible for the execution of individual components



- 47 -
GUINEA                   ANNEX VIII
SECOND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Selected documents in the project file
- Government report on the December 1987 workshop - MPCI; March 1988.
- Note on the Implementation of the Technical Assistance Project for
Economic Management 'Cr 1559-GUI) and the Preparation of EMSP II - MPCI;
November 1987.
- Report on CNPG training activities for the period of 1989 to 1991 - CNPG;
July 1988.
- Preparation Report on the "Public Finance Management" component -
A Vorms (Consultant); April 1988.
- Draft UNDP project document for the Second Administrative and Civil
Service Reform Support Project; July 1988
- Terms of reference for resident specialists positions
- Report on the assistance to the Tax Directorate - Baldet & Cornelly
(IMF); February 1988



- 48 -
GUINEA                         ANNEX IX
SECOND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT SUPPORT PROJECT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
A.   First IDA mission                    July 1987
B.   Identification mission               September 1987
C.   Prepared by                          Goverziment with the assistance of
consultants. Project preparation
included a Workshop on the
Preparation of the Second Phase of
the Recovery Program, organized in
December, 1987.
D.   Appraisal                            April and July 1988
E.   Negotiations                         September 1988
(in presence of representatives
of UNDP, USAID, FAC, and CCCE)
F.   Board presentatioLl                  November 1988
G.   Planned date of effectiveness        February 1989



IBRD 20873R
MAURITANIA                                                                         12-                                                    10
'ENEGAL Y r                                                S  E  N   E  G   A   L
SENEGAL            M A L I                            '     .                                                                                                                   M     A      L   I
-  G.MIIIA)            -URXINA                 Youkoun
GIJINEA-  2'    t>        r    F.ASO             \ Kound                     N , F-_,
MSAU                                              Ko. d- /
SIERRA LEONE > ' ,,   C6TE
LIBERI zD'IVOIRE  -G12ANA    \                                                                                                                                                                         12_ /  Koureo12-
.    ~~~~~~(t  ad   KSerii; -'1:                                                                  
GUINEA-..1                                                                                                                                                                                                  2
/                   -1    (PGlonnerd)                                                                                                              / 
G U I N E A - y / : t: - -ff~~~~~~~~~~MGigX.ubo rz
BISSAU    '     , A                       .   ^ *           >           _>                         Sf Oinguir      ,
/                  .        R |I  ySongorddi      -                    UTA DJALON)
0        atolbounyi                      ltimW              \Dbolo                                                              
0                                                                  lb                                                         Kololooony
Ion+     S / 0.!,  Id                 K  i
-iO Sol>D~~~~~~~~~~~ubr5zr  .      e
,  ,,,    tC-Spyoh           /      -                     
GUINEA        ONADER  'S                             /       S   I  E   R   R   A
SECOND ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT    fE                                                                                                                                                                                \j
SUPPORT PROJECT (EMSP 11)  Beoty                                                                                                                                           I .sa. ,i.                      
Livestock Development Project Locations                             First Category Roads
Rice Development Project, ONADER                         --.--  Railways                                                                                                      8 eri  
Rice Development Project, Pilot Area                        *       International Airport
*      Rice Development Project, Research Stations                 it      Regulorly Serviced Airports                      ! f             t              t  Macenso
A      Daboya Pineapple Project                                            Rivers
Natural Regions                                          -     -    Internotionol Boundaries
Rain Forest                                                                                                                                                                                    .
ov                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                ~    ~~~                             ~    ~ ~~~ ~~~0 20  40   60   80  100        58-
-8           Savannah to Bush Savannah                                              KILOMETERS 0    0   40   60   8L
Bush to Tree Savannah                                                      MILES 6       io 2    i       6o0                                                                       la Iio
Fouta Djalon (hilly, lightly forested, upland plateau)                                                                   L          E          A1?                                                  '
Light Forest to Tree Savannah                                                                                     I)A                                   h             /o
Ma ngrove Swomps                                                                        The omp ha. ben waowod by rhoUhd bank' . .00 .. r.ry for fih. -ono-ruo of
tne -od-, nd a -oh,sroefr for Ii.-ilo -o of Th. Wo,d Ber* 1k tdhie hio-rnooI )'''1
Light Forest with Swampy Areos                                                F12e C pt-  rhSdor-ff-  sed W tnhe oda,d shnkoWytho.np d. -I
rm,o4onth. Cart f Th. Wod &M and '  atnt-l F-- C.P-9m -y pdg-t
t4'                                                     12'      oflt fet.1 bxot  am ot mfy I-W m!t-y d---f en-opsc/ten-Psof suhtoundane..r\                             8



