Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4559-PK 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Poverty Reduction & Economic Support Operation) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated March 26, 2009  
 
Page  2
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated March 26, 2009, entered into between ISLAMIC 
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
three hundred twenty one million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 321,300,000
)
(variously, “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the 
repayment schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any 
situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the Program or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV — TERMINATION
 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is the Secretary of the Recipient’s Economic 
Affairs Division of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics, or any 
Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in that 
Division.  
Page  4
-
3
-
5.02. The 
Recipient
’s Address is:  
 
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
Economic Affairs Division 
Ministry of Economic Affairs and Statistics 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Facsimile 
 
92-51-9210734  
 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
AGREED at District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and 
year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By 
 
/s/ Abdul Wajad Rana 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By 
 
/s/ Yusupha B. Crookes 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
The Recipient has: (a) 
notified the government’s approval for the restructuring of 
the Federal Board of Revenue into an integrated federal tax administration 
agency organized according to functions; and (b) implemented related 
organizational changes in top management in the Federal Board of Revenue. 
 
2. 
The Recipient, through MOF’s D.O. No. F.3(58) EF-C-II/2008 dated 
 
January 21, 2009,  has approved the policy action plan to amend the legislation of 
domestic indirect taxes, to ensure a comprehensive taxation of goods and services 
in the form of a value added tax. 
 
3. 
The Recipient has: (a) through MOP&NR’s letter No. PL-3(457)/2009 
introduced automatic monthly adjustments of consumer fuel prices to reflect 
international fuel prices; and (b) through MOP&NR’s notification S.R.O. 
(1)/2008 of December 31, 2008, specified a revised minimum level of petroleum 
development levy. 
 
4. 
The Recipient: (a) through Finance Act No. 1 of 2008, dated June 27, 2008, has 
authorized the National Electric Power Regulatory Authority to make monthly 
determination of the fuel adjustment surcharges; and (b) has notified to the public 
the new electricity tariffs within 15 days from tariff determination or re-
determination. 
 
5. 
The Recipient has adopted and begun implementation of a plan to eliminate 
power sector subsidies by June 30, 2009, consistent with the Recipient’s budget 
for fiscal year 2008/9. 
 
6. 
The Recipient, through a letter from MOF, has communicated the consolidation 
and rationalization of the Public Sector Development Program portfolio by 
terminating non-viable projects and reducing the throw-forward by at least 
twenty percent (20%), consistent with the Recipient’s revised development 
priorities. 
 
7. 
Through MOF’s letter No. F.2(4)DM/2003-79 dated January 13, 2009, the MOF 
has: (a) notified the State Bank of Pakistan, of the amendment of the PIB Rules, 
defining the MOF and the State Bank of Pakistan’s roles and decision-making 
rights in the issuance of Pakistan Investment Bonds; and (b) issued the 
Instructions to the State Bank of Pakistan.
 
Page  6
-
5
-
8. 
Through S.R.O. (1)/2009 of January 22, 2009, issued by the Competition 
Com
mission, and MOF’s notification S.R.O. (I)/2009 of the same date, the 
Recipient has adopted CC Rules providing for: (a) the terms of reference of the 
members of the Competition Commission; and (b) the Competition 
Commission’s automatic sources of financing. 
 
9. 
The Recipient, through State Bank of Pakistan’s BPRD Circular No.1, dated 
January 17, 2009, has amended the Prudential Regulations to introduce a phased 
reduction in the Group Credit Exposure Limit from fifty percent (50%) to twenty 
five percent (25%) by the end of calendar year 2013.  
 
10. 
Through letter No. Dy. 149-MD/BISP/09, dated January 22, 2009, from the 
Managing Director of the Benazir Income Support Program, the Recipient has: 
(a) adopted a scorecard as the new instrument for identifying and targeting poor 
families for coverage under the Benazir Income Support Program; (b) adopted a 
plan for implementation for the new instrument; and (c) begun implementation of 
said plan on January 31, 2009.
 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General
.
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
.
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
 
Single Tranche 
321,300,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
321,300,000 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
 
1. 
the withdrawal from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon deposit of the amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient
’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association.  Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be 
cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is March 31, 2010. 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing September 15, 2019 to and including 
March 15, 2029 
1.25% 
commencing September 15, 2029 to and including 
March 15, 2044 
2.5% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Benazir Income Support Program” means the social safety net program 
established through a Cabinet Division’s Notification No. F-1/5/2008-Admn.II, 
dated September 27, 2008. 
 
2. 
“CC Rules” means the rules adopted by the Recipient pursuant to the 
Competition Ordinance 2007 (Ordinance No. LII, 2007) governing, 
inter alia,
 
the terms of office of the members of the Competition Commission and the 
funding of the CCP Fund, as provided in Sections 17 and 20 of the said 
Ordinance.  
 
3. 
“CCP Fund” means the fund established pursuant to Section 20 of the 
Competition Ordinance 2007 (Ordinance N. LII, 2007) and utilized by the 
Competition Commission as a source of funding to meet charges in connection 
with its normal functioning.  
 
4. 
“Competition Commission” means the Recipient’s administratively and 
functionally independent commission established pursuant to Section 12 of the 
Competition Ordinance 2007 (Ordinance No. LII, 2007). 
 
5. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Group 
Sub-group 
Description of Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43 
Tobacco processing machinery 
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
Page  11
-
10
 - 
 
6. 
“Equity” means the capital (including paid-up capital, general reserves, balance 
in share premium account, reserve for issue of bonus shares and retained 
earnings/accumulated losses as disclosed in latest annual audited financial 
statements, etc.) of the bank or development financial institution. In case of 
branches of foreign banks acting Pakistan, “Equity” means the capital maintained 
free of losses and provision, under Section 13 of the Recipient’s Banking 
Companies Ordinance of 1962 (Act LVII of 1962).  
 
7. 
“Exposure” means all kinds of financial facilities whether fund based and/or non-
fund based as defined in the Prudential Regulations.  
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
9. 
“Group” means two or more persons, whether natural or juridical, if one of them 
or his/her dependent family members or its subsidiaries, have control or hold 
substantial ownership interest over the other(s), as defined in the Prudential 
Regulations.  
 
10. 
“Group Credit Exposure Limit” means the total outstanding Exposure (fund 
based and non-fund based) by a bank or development financial institution to a 
Group as a percentage of such bank or development financial institution’s Equity.  
 
11. 
“Instructions” means the set of instructions issued by MOF in relation to the 
Rules for purpose of regulating the State Bank of Pakistan intervention in the 
issuance, sale, purchase and other transactions related to Pakistan Investment 
Bonds. 
 
12. 
“MOF” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Finance.  
 
13. 
“MOP&NR” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Resources. 
 
14. 
“National Electric Power Regulatory Authority” means the Recipient’s 
independent regulatory agency established and existing under the NEPRA Act 
(
Act XL of 1997 for the Regulation Generation, Transmission and Distribution of 
Electric Power
)
for purposes of regulating the Recipient’s electric power sector; 
and/or any successor thereto.  
 
15. 
“Pakistan Investment Bonds” means certain bonds issued from time to time by, 
and in the name of, the Recipient in exercise of the powers conferred under the 
Public Debt Act, 1944 (Act XVIII of 1944).   
 
Page  12
-
11
 - 
 
16. 
“PIB Rules” means the Pakistan Investment Bonds Rules 2000 issued by MOF 
through S.R.O. 735(1)/2000 pursuant to Section 28, of the Public Debt Act 1944 
(Act XVIII of 1944).  
 
17. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the development policy letter dated February 3, 2009, from the 
Recipient to the Association declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in 
support of the Program during its execution. 
 
18. 
“Prudential Regulations” means the set of prudential regulations for 
corporate/commercial banking issued by the Banking Policy and Regulation 
Department of the State Bank of Pakistan as amended from time to time.  
 
19. 
“Public Sector Development Program” means the Recipient development 
program approved by the Parliament as part of Finance Act 2008/09.   
 
20. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
Page  13
-
12
 - 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in support of 
which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” throughout these General 
Conditions are deemed to be references to “Program”. 
 
