Document of
The World Bank
Report No. ICR1782
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
(IDA-45590)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 321.3 MILLION
(US$500 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
POVERTY REDUCTION AND ECONOMIC SUPPORT OPERATION
March 28, 2011
Economic Policy and Poverty Group
South Asia Region


﻿PAKISTAN-GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL YEAR
July 1-June 30
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March 22, 2011)
Currency Unit = Pakistan Rupees (PKRs)
US$1 = 85.47 PKRs
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BISP          Benazir Income Support Program
CAD           Current Account Deficit
CCP           Competition Commission of Pakistan
CDNS          Central Directorate of National Savings
DFID          UK Department for International Development
DPL           Development Policy Lending
FBR           Federal Board of Revenue
FDI           Foreign Direct Investment
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GoP           Government of Pakistan
IFC           International Finance Corporation
IMF           International Monetary Fund
ISR           Implementation Status Report
LTU           Large Taxpayer Unit
MoF           Ministry of Finance
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MTB           Market Treasury Bill
MTBF          Medium Term Budgetary Framework
NEPRA         National Electric Power Regulatory Authority
OGRA          Oil and Gas Regulatory Authority
PDL           Petroleum Development Levy
PDO           Program Development Objective
PIB           Pakistan Investment Bond
PPRA          Public Procurement Regulatory Authority
PRESO         Poverty Reduction and Economic Support Operation
PRSC          Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PRSP-II       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper-II
PSDP          Public Sector Development Program
SBA           Stand By Arrangements
SBP           State Bank of Pakistan
TSA           Treasury Single Account
VAT           Value Added Tax
WAPDA         Water and Power Development Authority
RTO           Regional Tax Office
1


﻿Vice President:         Isabel Guerrero
Country Director:       Rachid Benmessaoud
Sector Manager:         Deepak Bhattasali
Task Team Leader:       Muhammad Waheed
2


﻿E


﻿Contents
A.   BASIC INFORMATION .................................................... 5
B.   KEY DATES        .............................................................5
C.   SUMMARY RATINGS ..................................................... 5
D.   SECTOR AND THEME CODES                                                 ....................6..........................6
E.   BANK STAFF ........................................................... 6
F.   RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS..............7............                               ...............7
G.   RATINGS OF PROGRAM PERFORMANCE IN ISRs                     ...............................7
H.   RESTRUCTRING IF ANY                                                 ................................................... 7
1.   Program Context, Development Objectives and Design.................................... 8
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes..............................                   10
3.   Assessment of Outcomes                      ......................................................... 18
4.   Assessment ofRisk to Development Outcomes                                ......................................... 23
5.   Assessment ofBank and Borrower Performance....................................... 24
6.   Lesson Learned      ................................................................ 25
7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrowers /Implementing Agencies/Partners            ................. 26
Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process ..        ........................ 27
Annex 2: PRESO Project Development Outcomes Core Indicators (Up-Front Actions in Bold) .......... 28
Annex 3: PRESO Policy Matrix                  .................................................. 31
Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR........................ 34
Annex 5: List of Supporting Documents               .................................................. 39
Annex 6: List of People Consulted .........    .........          .............................. 40
MAP....     ..................................................................... 42
4


﻿A.    BASIC INFORMATION
Pakistan Poverty
Reduction and
Country:             Pakistan             Program Name:         econ. Sp
Economic Support
Operation (PRESO)
Program ID:          P113372              L/C/TF Number(s):    IDA-45590
ICR Date:            12/08/2010           ICR Type:            Core ICR
Government of
Lending Instrument:  DPL                  Borrower:            Pakistan
Pakistan
Original Total       US$500 million       Disbursed Amount:    US$500 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      US$500M
Implementing Agencies:
MoF, GoP
Co financiers and Other External Partners:
B.    KEY DATES
I                                     Revised / Actual
Process          Date             Process         Original Date    Dae(s)
Date(s)
Concept Review:     12/15/2008   Effectiveness:      03/27/2009       03/27/2009
Appraisal:          01/26/2009   Restructuring(s):      N/A
Approval:       1   03/26/2009   Mid-term Review: _     _I
_ I              IClosing:           03/31/2010       03/31/2010
C.    SUMMARY RATINGS
Cl: PERFORMANCE RATING BY ICR
Outcomes:                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:              High
Bank Performance:                         Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory
C2: DETAILED RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE (by ICR)
[Bank                Ratings             IBorrower             Ratings
[Quality at Entry:   Moderately Satisfactory Government:       Not Applicable
. . Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory      Age.enie
Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank         Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower  Moderately
Performance:          _Performance:                            Unsatisfactory
5


﻿C3: QUALITY AT ENTRY AND IMPLEMENTING PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Implementation          Indicators    QAG Assessments (i         Rating:
Performance                                 any)
Potential Problem
Program at any time         No                (QEA)                None
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any        No              Quality of
time (Yes/No):                        Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          N/A
Closing/Inactive status:
D.     SECTOR AND THEME CODES
Original          Actual
Sector Code (as percent of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                      10               10
Central government administration                            50              50
Oil and gas                                                  10               10
Other social services                                        10               10
Power                                                        20              20
Theme Code (as percent of total Bank financing)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                    30              30
Public expenditure, financial management and                 10               10
procurement
Regulation and competition policy                            20              20
Social safety nets                                           10               10
Tax policy and administration                                30              30
E.    BANK STAFF
Positions              At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:       Isabel M. Guerrero             Isabel M. Guerrero
Country Director:     Rachid Benmessaoud             Yusupha B. Crookes
Sector Manager:       Deepak Bhattasali              Miria A. Pigato
Team Leader:  Jose Lopez-Calix               Satu Kristiina J. Kahkonen, Kaspar
Richter
ICR Team Leader:      Muhammad Waheed
ICR Primary Author:   Muhammad Waheed
6


﻿F.    RESULTS FRAMEWORK ANALYSIS
Program Development Objectives
The proposed Poverty Reduction and Economic Support Operation (PRESO) supports:
a     Regaining and maintaining macroeconomic stability through increased tax revenue
mobilization, adjustment of fuel prices and power tariffs, improved efficiency of public
spending, and strengthened GoP debt management;
b     Enhancing competitiveness through reduced barriers to business entry and exit, and
strengthened financial sector; and
c     Protecting the poor and vulnerable through improved targeting of safety nets and cash
transfer programs, and strengthened statistical systems.
Revised Program Development Objectives (If any, as approved by original approving
authority)
(a)   PDO Indicator (s)
For PRESO Core Indicators, please see Annex 2 at the end of document.
(b)   Intermediate Outcome Indicators
For PRESO Core Indicators, please see Annex 2 at the end of document.
G.    RATINGS OF PROGRAM PERFORMANCE IN ISRs
No ISR's were prepared for this operation.
H.    RESTRUCTRING IF ANY
Not applicable
7


﻿1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
The Poverty Reduction and Economic Support Operation (PRESO) was the most recent of
a series of budget support operations in Pakistan. PRESO was carried out under very
difficult circumstances. The Government of Pakistan (GoP) has found it difficult to sustain
reform momentum through a volatile political and economic context, as well as natural disasters
like the 2005 earthquake and exogenous external shocks.
After several years of strong economic performance, growth slowed down in 2008, as
Pakistan faced both external and internal shocks. On the external side, international oil and
food commodity prices rose sharply in 2007/08 and increased Pakistan's import bill, while the
subsequent slowdown in the global economy dampened the external demand for Pakistan's
exports. On the internal side, Pakistan's political turmoil and escalating violence affected
investor confidence, which together with the widening macroeconomic imbalances, led to capital
outflows as well as a downgrading of Pakistan's credit rating by international rating agencies.
The political situation made it difficult for the authorities to take timely corrective action.
The authorities did not pass on any of the international price increases to consumers until after
the February 2008 Parliamentary elections, but before that happened, fully financed that
incremental increase through the GoP budget by increasing subsidies. As a result, the fiscal and
current account deficits widened substantially.
Only in March 2008 did the authorities start taking steps to stabilize the economy. These
included not only passing on some of the international fuel price increases to consumers, but
restricting the size of the fiscal deficit in 2007/08 and the 2008/09 budgets, increasing the policy
discount rate, and allowing greater flexibility in the exchange rate. However, these corrective
actions did not prevent rising inflation and output contraction.
Faced with the risk of a balance of payments crisis and to avoid default on foreign debt
payments in the fall of 2008, the authorities decided to put in place adjustment measures
aimed at facilitating the resumption of inclusive growth with low inflation over the medium
term. In November 2008, the authorities entered into a Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and also requested assistance from the World Bank to
support the structural reform process.
PRESO was initially prepared as the start of a new series of Development Policy Lending
(DPL) (supporting GoP's multi-year program of reforms), but was processed as a stand-
alone operation focused on supporting the authorities' shorter-term efforts to promote
stabilization and economic recovery. The Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper-II (PRSP-II) was
prepared by GoP at the end of 2008, which provided the framework for the policy agenda.
PRESO supported PRSP-II objectives related to macroeconomic stabilization, improving
competitiveness and protecting the poor. However, given the magnitude of macroeconomic
imbalances, it was recognized that regaining macroeconomic stability and putting the economy
8


﻿back on a path of sustainable growth would require multi-year policy adjustments. After
PRESO, it was anticipated that the later years of the framework could be supported through
follow up successive operations.
PRESO helped to fund the GoP's budgetary needs in 2008/09. PRESO financing was a key
part of the GoP's financing plan for 2008/09. The IMF's SBA assumed World Bank
disbursements of US$1.4 billion in 2008/09, including US$500 million through PRESO.
1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
PRESO was prepared as a stand-alone operation in order to support the authorities' short-
term policy measures to promote economic recovery, along with the needed stabilization.
Following are PRESO's main objectives and the outcomes expected in three areas:
a. Regaining and maintaining macroeconomic stability.
* Fiscal deficit reduced from 7.4 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2007/08 to
or below 4.3 percent of GDP in 2008/09.
* Current account deficit (CAD) reduced from 8.4 percent of GDP in 2007/08 to or below
5.9 percent of GDP in 2008/09.
b. Enhancing competitiveness.
*  Improved Doing Business indicators including inter alia Starting-a-Business indicator
reduced from 27 days in 2008 to 22 days in 2009.
c. Protecting the poor and vulnerable.
*  Improved access to social safety net programs; measured by increased coverage of the
poorest 25 percent of the population by the Benazir Income Support Program (BISP).
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification
Not Applicable
1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)
The reform areas supported by PRESO built on the two previous Poverty Reduction
Support Credits (PRSCs) of 2004 and 2007 and were aligned with GoP's Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper-II (PRSP-II). PRESO highlighted efforts in three areas:
a. Regaining and maintaining macroeconomic stability through measures in the following
areas: increased tax revenue mobilization, adjustment of fuel prices and power tariffs,
improved efficiency of public spending, and strengthened GoP debt management.
b. Enhancing competitiveness through measures in the following areas: reduced barriers to
business entry and exit, and strengthened financial sector.
9


﻿c. Protecting the poor and vulnerable through measures in the following areas: improved
targeting of safety nets and cash transfer programs, and strengthened statistical systems.
TABLE 1: MAPPING OF PRESO REFORM INITIATIVES FROM PRSP-II
PRSP-II Pillars                   PRESO Reform Objectives
*   Macroeconomic Stability and Real   *   Increased Revenue Mobilization
Sector Growth                      *   Improved Efficiency of Public
Spending
*   Strengthened GoP Debt Management
*   Integrated Energy Development      *   Adjustment of Fuel Prices and Power
Program                                Tariffs
*   Making Industry Internationally    *   Reduced Barriers to Business Entry
Competitive                            and Exit
*   Capital and Finance for Development  *  Strengthened Financial Sector
*   Protecting the Poor and Vulnerable  *  Better Targeted Social Safety Nets
*   Monitoring and Evaluation of PRSP-II  *  Strengthened Statistical System
1.5 Revised Policy Areas
There was no revised policy area.
1.6 Other Significant Changes
There were no significant changes.
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Program Performance
Progress on the overall reform program supported by PRESO was mixed. Reforms
progressed well in most areas but despite strong efforts fell short of expectations in eliminating
power sector subsidies and raising revenue collection. The 10 upfront actions highlighted by the
PRESO are noted in Table 2 below. The core indicators on the PDO are tabulated in Annex 2.
TABLE 2: UP-FRONT ACTIONS HIGHLIGHTED BY PRESO
Prior
Objectives    Actions                        Prior Action
Pillar I:                 GoP   approved establishment of a new    integrated tax
Regaining and       1     administration on functional basis and related Federal Board
Maintaining               of Revenue (FBR) top management changes implemented.
Macroeconomic             GoP approved policy action plan to amend legislation of
Stability           2     domestic indirect taxes to ensure comprehensive taxation of
goods and services in the form of Value Added Tax (VAT).
3     Automatic monthly adjustment of consumer fuel prices
introduced, and a minimum level of Petroleum Development
10


﻿Levy (PDL) specified.
Monthly determination of fuel adjustment surcharge
4     introduced; new electricity tariffs notified in 15 days from
determination or re-determination.
A satisfactory plan to eliminate power sector subsidies by end
5     June 2009   consistent with the budget adopted    and
implemented.
Public Sector Development Program (PSDP) portfolio
6     consolidated by  at least 20 percent consistent with
development priorities.
Ministry of Finance (MoF) amended rules defining roles and
7     decision-making rights for Pakistan Investment Bond (PIB)
issuance and issued related instructions to State Bank of
Pakistan (SBP).
Pillar 11:                Competition Commission of Pakistan (CCP) rules notified
Enhancing           8     providing the terms and conditions of its members; and
competitiveness  __automatic source of financing.
Prudential regulations amended to introduce a phased
9     reduction in the group credit exposure limit from 50 percent
to 25 percent over time.
Pillar III:               GoP adopted the scorecard as the new targeting instrument for
Protecting the      10    Benazir Income Support Program (BISP) and notified the plan
Poor and
Vulrabe                  for its roll out, with the roll-out launched in January 2009.
Vulnerable
The following paragraphs consider the various components of the reform program in turn,
grouped under the three pillars of the program. The outcome level assessments are presented
subsequently in Section 3.
Pillar 1: Regaining and Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability
Progress under this pillar was mixed with overall meaningful gains, but slippage or late
reversals in two areas. However, even if some actions did not meet their stated targets, the
situation would likely have been worse in the absence of the reform program.
Increased Revenue Mobilization
The sustainability of the macroeconomic program rested heavily on boosting revenue
mobilization. Inadequate revenue mobilization remained the most critical concern as revenues
fell short of targets. Tax revenue as a share of GDP declined from 10.6 percent in 2007/08 to
10.2 percent in 2008/09, and further in 2009/10. Progress was made on improving tax
administration, but core tax policy reforms were not implemented and several of the
administrative measures highlighted in PRESO reform program were modified or delayed. For
instance, GoP approved the plan for the FBR restructuring, consistent with its tax administration
reform strategy of 2003, and made one change in the FBR Board according to the plan under
PRESO in 2008/09 (Upfront Action 1 of 10). However, in the summer 2009, well after the
11


﻿PRESO Board, GoP backtracked on this reform due to pressure from vested interests. The Bank,
jointly with the IMF, started addressing the reversal to get it back on track. The authorities made
adjustments to their plan and started its implementation in the fall 2009. In addition, PRESO
highlighted approval of a policy action plan to amend legislation on the levying of domestic
indirect taxes to ensure comprehensive taxation of goods and services in the form of a VAT
(upfront action 2 of 10). While the action plan was prepared, GoP has been unable to sustain it
and follow through. The revised approach to amend the legislation governing General Sales Tax
in the 2010/11 budget, in order to make it more like a VAT (broadening the tax base and
reducing the zero-ratings and exemptions), awaits implementation due to a lack of political
consensus among key stakeholders, including the provinces. Implementation of VAT remains at
the center of the economic policy dialogue between GoP and the Bank in the recent past and the
Bank continues providing timely and adequate technical assistance. In addition, there was a
decline in revenue collection at sub-national levels as provinces only collected 1.16, 1.02 and
0.84 percent of GDP during 2007/08, 2008/09 and 2009/10 respectively.
Adjustment of Fuel Prices and Power Tariffs
GoP successfully eliminated the subsidies on domestic fuel prices by allowing the Oil and
Gas Regulatory Authority (OGRA) to notify domestic fuel prices in accordance with
changes in international prices, while keeping a minimum level of a PDL specified. The
automatic fuel price adjustment mechanism was re-introduced in early 2009 (Upfront Action 3 of
10) and enabled monthly adjustments of domestic prices on fuel products, which are consistent
with the changes in the import parity price. This sharply reduced the fiscal burden of subsidies
on fuel products. The process was helped by the falling international price of fuel during much of
2009. It is worth noting, however, due to political pressures, GoP put at risk this important
reform on January 6, 2011, when it barred OGRA from automatically notifying fuel prices based
on international oil price movements. However, it later restarted fuel price adjustments on March
1, 2011. This partial reversal again exposes the authorities to political pressures each time higher
international prices would call for increases in the domestic price, and fiscal pressures in the
event of any subsequent delays.
The power sector remains one of the most contentious and unresolved areas of reform. The
core issue is restoring the financial viability of the power sector, and reducing large and
unsustainable GoP subsidies to the sector. As part of reforms under PRSC I and II, the National
Electric Power Regulatory Authority (NEPRA) started, in February 2007, determining the tariffs
for unbundled Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) distribution companies on
the basis of the cost of service of each distribution company. The tariffs for each distribution
company were posted on NEPRA's website. However, these tariffs were not notified or
implemented. Instead, on February 24, 2007, GoP notified a uniform consumer tariff across all
distribution companies. For political reasons, GoP avoided having different electricity tariffs
across the country and decided to cover the difference between the NEPRA-determined and
government-notified uniform consumer tariff through 'tariff differential subsidies', a practice
12


﻿since 2007. During PRESO period, power differential subsidies decreased. The budgetary
subsidy to power sector utilities which was 1.3 percent of GDP in 2007/08, decreased to 0.8
percent of GDP in 2008/09.
PRESO also supported GoP's efforts to make regular power tariff adjustments, including
the preparation of an actual amendment authorizing NEPRA to determine tariff
adjustments attributed to movements in fuel costs on a monthly basis. Addressing a sizeable
portion of power generation costs, this reform (Upfront Action 4 of 10) was one component of
the tariff adjustment plan which would have enabled the Government to contain tariff differential
subsidies at Rs. 55 billion in 2009/10. In addition to monthly adjustments in tariffs to reflect fuel
price changes, the Government also needed to notify consumer tariffs for the distribution
companies, as per NEPRA's determination. Following a plan to eliminate power sector subsidies
by end June (the preparation of the plan was Upfront Action 5 of 10) the fiscal drain associated
with electricity was to cease from July 2009 onwards.  However, the tariff adjustment
mechanism (involving monthly adjustments on account of fuel price changes, as well as periodic
notification of consumer level tariffs for all distribution companies) was only implemented for a
few months, and later stopped. It was also not implemented in a timely manner. Later in 2009, it
turned out that GoP's action plan for subsidy elimination was based on incorrect estimates
provided by the authorities, which underestimated the actual amount of subsidy needs.
Furthermore, at the beginning of 2010/11, the ordinance empowering NEPRA to notify fuel
adjustment directly lapsed, because it was not ratified by Parliament. Consequently, NEPRA has
reverted to the earlier practice of only recommending tariff revisions to GoP, which would then
need to go the further step of notifying the tariffs. Since GoP did not promptly notify monthly
fuel adjustments as determined by NEPRA, and the regular quarterly determinations are also not
being promptly and fully notified, therefore, fundamental goal of containing power sector
subsidies remains elusive: Overall, electricity tariff differential subsidies rose to Rs. 188 billion
in 2009/10 (1.3 percent of GDP), but are projected to fall again to an estimated Rs 143 billion
(0.8 percent of GDP) in 2010/11. Despite the major efforts done by the Bank and other donors to
address this problem, GoP has still not formally submitted an alternative amendment of the
NEPRA Act to Parliament, which would achieve the desired automaticity and depoliticize tariff
setting.
The agreements under PRESO were designed to promote automaticity in the tariff determination
and notification process, particularly to account for changes in fuel costs which were very
volatile at that time. Actual implementation of the agreed program was, however, deficient in
two aspects: (a) the Government did not promptly notify NEPRA determined adjustments on
account of fuel price changes; and (b) the Government agreed under PRESO to do only a one-
time adjustment (4%) in electricity tariffs, without evaluating by how much power supply costs
had changed, and were expected to change, over the full fiscal year. For these reasons, the Bank
proposed that the Government consider (a) empowering NEPRA to notify all tariff adjustments
(i.e. Government discretion to notify adjustments due to fuel cost changes, or overall tariffs,
13


﻿should be eliminated); and (b) monthly adjustments on account of fuel cost changes be revised to
reflect the full change in the distribution companies' power purchase costs, not only on account
of changes in fuel prices.
In sum, the reforms supported by PRESO in this area have not proven durable yet, and much
more will need to be done in the power sector if it is to cease siphoning off scarce public
resources and constraining growth.
Improved Efficiency of Public Spending
Consistent with the broader goal of macroeconomic stability, PRESO emphasized steps to
improve the efficiency of public sector spending. This included rationalizing PSDP portfolio,
strengthening budget planning, implementing effective cash management, and enhancing
transparency in procurement. Good progress was made in consolidating the PSDP, surpassing
the 20 targets highlighted in PRESO (Upfront Action 6 of 10). This was done by re-evaluating
the economic and financial viability of the projects that were significantly delayed, cutting
allocations where the existing allocation was less than 10 percent of the total anticipated
financing needs, and terminating projects that were inconsistent with GoP's development
priorities.
In other areas of public expenditure management, GoP also made meaningful progress.
GoP is moving away from a single-year budgeting process to a Medium-term Budget Framework
(MTBF), and after a slow and hesitant start, the process continues to gain momentum. The
authorities have established a Treasury Single Account (TSA), aiming to stop the leakage of
funds. Completing the transition to the TSA will require transferring the balances held by
various GoP ministries and agencies in commercial banks, and then closing those accounts.
Owing to strong vested interests, GoP has only partially been able to follow through on this.
Procurement reforms have progressed well, with contract awards over Rs. 50 million posted on
the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) website, among other rule based
mechanisms in place, and active training programs have been established to enhance compliance
with procurement procedures.
Strengthened GoP Debt Management
Improving public debt management was also an important part of the overall effort
towards the goal of macroeconomic stability. This hinges on implementing debt policy
consistent with sound monetary and fiscal policy, proceeding with GoP borrowing in a manner
conducive to the development of a securities market, and improving the reliability of debt service
forecasts.
In past years, one area of concern was GoP borrowing from the central bank. MoF
committed to zero net borrowing from the central bank from November 1, 2008. GoP
successfully remained within this ceiling agreed under IMF's SBA and PRESO until March
2010. However, due to a shortfall in domestic revenues and over-spending, in the context of
14


﻿limited access to external financing, GoP started to borrow substantially from SBP in the last
quarter of 2009/10, going above the ceiling agreed with the IMF under the SBA.
PRESO supported GoP efforts to use public borrowing to help develop GoP securities
market. A key part of this is the issuance of a credible calendar for PIB auctions, helping to
stabilize Pakistan's financial markets. Market participants believe that the GoP has greater
credibility and commitment to market-based funding costs in the primary market due to the
publication of, and adherence to, an auction calendar, which enables the market to plan for
issuance and better absorb GoP's funding needs. Almost all wholesale issuance now occurs
according to a calendar. While Market Treasury Bills (MTBs) have been issued fortnightly
under long-standing practice, an auction calendar of PIBs was introduced for the first time in the
2008/09 fiscal year. For MTBs, the calendar covers 3 months. It specifies auction dates, the
tenors to be offered at each auction, and the total target volume; tenor-specific target volumes are
not announced. For PIBs, the calendar covers 6 months. It specifies auction dates, the tenors to
be offered at each auction, the total target volume, and (in contrast to the practice for MTBs) the
target volume for each tenor. Importantly, GoP discontinued its prior practice of applying low or
arbitrary cut-off yields in auctions. Bid acceptance respects the volumes announced in the
calendars. In addition, the roles of MoF and SBP have been clarified (Upfront Action 7 of 10).
These factors have contributed meaningfully to increasing the credibility of the GoP in the
domestic debt market.
Pillar 2: Enhancing Competitiveness
Reduced Barriers to Business Entry and Exit
Recognizing that the private sector is the engine of growth, PRESO also focused on
"Reduced Time to Start a Business" like issues and strengthening of the financial sector.
One of the overall outcome goals was that starting-a-business indicator should be improved by
reducing the number of days from 27 in 2008 to 22 in 2009. According to the IFC/World Bank
Doing Business 2010 Report, this goal was successfully achieved, as starting a business required
only 20 days in 2009. Also, it was envisaged that the enhancement of competition is an
important ingredient for the development of the private sector. In this regard it was deemed
important to improve competition policy framework by enhancing the role of CCP. Key steps in
this process were notifying CCP rules regarding the terms and condition of appointment, and the
establishment of an automatic financing mechanism for CCP (Upfront Action 8 of 10). The
latter, however, was implemented with delays, and resource transfers from the other regulators
have been limited, leaving CCP in a highly resource constrained budget environment. After
many delays, CCP Act was ratified by the Parliament on October 6, 2010. This was not part of
PRESO, but the Bank team continued efforts to support CCP after PRESO. Despite these
constraints, it is notable that CCP has been very active, successfully holding hearings on
anticompetitive practices in the cement, energy, automobile, polyester, and fertilizer sectors and
action was taken against illegal practices. It is essential that the legal and policy framework
promote competition, which is stifled in many areas by cartels and collusions among existing
15


﻿suppliers. Also, remaining barriers to business entry and exit still need to be lessened. For
example, Pakistan is still lacking a well-functioning bankruptcy framework which is consistent
with international practice.
Strengthened Financial Sector
In order to strengthen the financial system and reduce systemic risks, SBP endeavored to
amend prudential regulations with a view to phasing in a reduction in group credit
exposure limits from 50 percent to 25 percent over time (Upfront Action 9 of 10). The goal
of this reform was the diversification of lending portfolio and progress has been made in this
regard. SBP has issued prudential regulations that have asked financial institutions to decrease
the group exposure limit in a staggered manner to 25 percent over the period from 2009 to 2013.
Currently this exposure limit stands at 40 percent and is moving in the right direction
Pillar 3: Protecting the Poor and Vulnerable
Improved Targeting of Safety Nets and Cash Transfer Program
In parallel with the stabilization program, GoP sought to protect the poor during the
economic adjustment, and efforts were made to strengthen the social safety net system.
Even though Pakistan has had a myriad of safety net programs targeted primarily at the
chronically poor, ranging from (unconditional) cash transfers to social care services and
microfinance programs, they have had little impact on poverty and vulnerability. These
programs have been fragmented and often duplicative, with limited coverage and weak targeting
mechanisms. To strengthen the safety net systems and increase coverage, GoP launched the
BISP in September 2008, with the objective of providing cash grants to the poorest families in
the country identified on the basis of a robust targeting methodology. The program intended to
cover the 5 million poorest families in 2009/10 with the medium term objective of reaching 7
million families, prospectively covering close to 25 percent of the population. At present,
BISP's poverty score-card mechanism is being implemented in 15 districts and the program has
doubled Pakistan's social safety net spending to GDP ratio from 0.4 percent to close to 1 percent.
As such, BISP is by far the largest social safety net program in Pakistan and became the core
safety net system in the country.
PRESO highlighted measures to improve targeting efficiency, as well as program
operations and administration, and significant progress was made in this area. Under
PRESO, GoP developed and adopted a Proxy Means Test based on a "poverty scorecard" as the
new targeting instrument (Upfront Action 10 of 10) that would replace ad-hoc mechanism of
selecting the beneficiaries through parliamentary lists. A pilot phase in 15 selected districts was
launched with the technical support of the Bank and funding by United Kingdom's Department
for International Development (DFID).  In parallel, BISP stopped Parliamentarian based
identification of beneficiaries in April 2009. Upon successful completion of the test phase and
shifting of beneficiaries to the new eligibility list in the districts where the poverty scorecard data
was available, BISP is now in the process of completing the national rollout of the poverty
16


﻿scorecard survey. The survey is expected to be completed by June 2011, and the beneficiary lists
will be updated accordingly as and when the poverty scorecard data is available for completed
districts. The Bank is providing technical assistance for completion of this survey as well as
strengthening of safety net administration systems. The Bank is also discussing with the GoP the
development of long-term exit/graduation-from-poverty strategies such as conditional cash
transfers linked with education and health, and employment activation through skills-training. In
addition, the Bank is assisting the GoP in the design of a viable health insurance model that
assists the poor in improving their access to health care services and reduces their income loss
due to catastrophic health shocks.
Strengthened the National Statistical System
GoP recognizes that the availability of consistent, reliable, and credible economic and social
data in a timely manner is essential for sound policy analysis and formulation. In this
regard, PRESO supported the presentation (and approval) of a new Statistical Law by the
Cabinet which would provide greater autonomy and enhance the functioning of the National
Statistical System. While Cabinet approval was obtained, Parliamentary approval is pending. It
is still under discussion with the Parliamentary Committee and once it is signed it will be tabled
in Parliament for approval.
2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
The fluidity of the political and security situation played a major role in delaying the
implementation of the reform program supported by PRESO. The operation was agreed by
a coalition government which was dealing with a very difficult security situation and a possible
balance of payments crisis, posing major challenges to GoP's commitment to reforms. For
example, PRESO highlighted reforms aimed at improving revenue mobilization and the
elimination of power sector subsidies. However, political will was limited and these reforms did
not gain sufficient traction within the political system and society. In addition, the worsening
security situation diverted significant resources towards security related expenditures,
concomitantly undermining fiscal adjustment.
Implementation and continuation of reforms after PRESO were also hampered by
Pakistan's continuing vulnerability to exogenous shocks. This is the case of the July-August
2010 floods, which inundated a large part of the country and are requiring massive resources for
recovery and rehabilitation. Spending associated with the recovery efforts is further weakening
the fiscal accounts. Ownership of reforms was critical for its design. While the overall
commitment of the highest authority was firm and PRESO program was based on GoP's own
home-grown design, it looks as if some of the key stake holders involved in its implementation
were not taken on board while agreeing on reform agenda. For example, restructuring of FBR
was one of the key reforms envisaged for the enhancement of efficiency and effectiveness in
revenue collection organization. However, this initiative faced severe resistance within FBR and
issue was only resolved after lengthy legal arbitration through Apex courts. While GoP was in
process of implementing this restructuring, uncertainty within the organization had impacted the
17


﻿revenue collection efforts. Similarly, GoP first proposed a broad-based VAT, but as reform
approached, vested interest emerged in full force.
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
PRESO contained a detailed Medium-term Policy Framework of the GoP and SBP with an
extensive list of indicators to facilitate continuous monitoring of progress toward the GoP's
overall development objectives. Many of the indicators were quantitative and, for the most part,
readily available. For example, indicators on revenues, spending, fiscal deficit, debt, and current
account deficit, foreign flows such as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) etc are collected regularly
as part of macroeconomic monitoring carried out by Bank staff. Other data, like those on "Start-
a-business" indicators are taken from the IFC/World Bank's Doing Business Report indicators.
This M&E effort was supported by timely and comprehensive monitoring of GoP's overall
reform agenda and Bank staff regularly monitored the indicators identified as a part of PRESO.
2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any)
PRESO was part of multi-year program of reforms and it was envisaged that it would be
followed by a new PRSC series. However, due to new Country Partnership Strategy which was
under consideration during 2009/10, the initiation of new series was delayed. The Bank tried to
re-engage and launch a new series of DPLs in the second half of 2009/10 but due to non
fulfillment of 2 out of 8 prior actions specifically in the power and cash management sectors, this
attempt is delayed. The new series is to support full implementation of key reforms that were
initiated under PRESO. Later, as the IMF's SBA became off track in early 2010/11, this DPL
operation remains under preparation, while the Government continues to implement proposed
measures of its reform program..
3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
PRESO was prepared as a stand-alone operation in order to support the authorities' short-term
policy measures to promote economic recovery, along with the needed stabilization. PRSP-II
was adopted at the end of 2008 and provided the framework for the policy agenda. PRESO
supported PRSP-II objectives related to macroeconomic stabilization, enhancement of
competitiveness and growth recovery, and poverty mitigation. However, given the magnitude of
macroeconomic imbalances, it was recognized that regaining macroeconomic stability and
putting the economy back on a path of high sustainable growth would require continued decisive
policy adjustment in 2009/10 and 2010/11. For this reason, the package included a draft
medium-term policy framework of GoP and SBP that lays out the envisaged road map for
adjustment. It was anticipated that the later years of the framework could be supported through a
separate series of programmatic operations. The financing provided through PRESO helped to
finance the GoP's budgetary needs, and thereby supported the authorities' commitment to
eliminate central bank financing of GoP. While the IMF-supported SBA provided Pakistan with
18


﻿much needed balance-of-payments support, budgetary support was also urgently required. The
PRESO financing was a key part of the GoP's financing plan.
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
PRESO was prepared as a stand-alone operation in order to support critical policy
measures aimed at promoting economic recovery and macroeconomic stabilization.
PRESO supported PRSP-II objectives related to macroeconomic stabilization, enhancement of
competitiveness, growth recovery and poverty mitigation. All upfront actions were achieved but
not all were sustained. Given the political constraints affecting a few key areas of the program,
especially in tax and power sector reforms, some actions were reversed or not implemented, and
efforts to get them back on track continue by both the Bank and the GoP. The overall
performance under the program remained Moderately Unsatisfactory. This is discussed in detail
below.
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Pillar 1: Regaining and Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability
Sub Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Progress under this pillar was mixed, with    Figure 1: Budgetary subsidies were reduced but
remain high
some meaningful gains, but slippage or                 0 Budget  E Revised
4%
outcomes falling short of expectations in other
areas. Several initiatives appear to have been  3%
overwhelmed by deterioration in the wider
S2%
context, and while they did not meet their
stated targets, results would likely have been  1%
worse in the absence of the reform program.  0%
The fiscal deficit (excluding grants) declined    2005/06  2006/07  2007/08  2008/09
from 7.6 percent of GDP in 2007/08 to 5.3
percent of GDP in 2008/09, but fell well short of the target of 4.2 percent of GDP envisaged in
PRESO (Table 3). However, it deteriorated
again to 6.3 percent of GDP in 2009/10 and the       Figure 2: Trends in twin
situtionhasnot  mproed  n  200/11  6  Fiscal balance m External current account balance
4%
Revenues  continued  to  underperform. In   2
2%
particular, tax revenues have plummeted as the 'm 0
economic slowdown has reduced the buoyancy
of   Pakistan's  two   main  tax   bases,  -6
manufacturing  and  imports.    Subsidies,  -8/
from= 7. peren of GDP in2070  t .
especially on Power tariffs, decreased but
remain substantial (Figure 1) and, predictably,
spending on security increased. Overall, after
19


﻿Table 3: Pakistan Selected Indicators, 2001/02 to 2009/10
Percentage
2001/02 2002/03 2003/04 2004/05 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 1/
Output and prices
Real GDP at factor cost (percent)                    3.1      4.7     7.5      9.0     5.8     6.8      3.7     1.2      4.1
Consumer prices (period average)                     2.5      3.1     4.6     9.3      7.9     7.8     12.0    20.8      11.7
Public finances
Total Revenues (% ofGDP)                             14.2    14.8    14.3     13.8    14.2     14.9    14.4    14.4     14.2
TaxRevenue (o ofGDP)                               10.9    11.5    11.0     0.0     10.6    10.2     10.6    10.2     10.2
ofwhich: FBR (% ofGDP)                            9.3     9.4      9.2     9.1     9.3      9.6     9.8     8.8       9.1
Total Expenditures (% ofGDP)                         18.3    18.5     16.7    17.2    18.5     19.1    21.7    19.0      20.5
Consolidated GoP budget balance (include. earthquake  -       3.7    -2.4      3.3    -4.3    -4.3     -7.6    -5.3     -6.3
related expenditures but excluding grants)
Total GoP debt                                       80.8    74.5    67.8     62.9    57.4     54.1    58.5    55.6      56.4
External GoP debt (% of GDP)                         40.4    35.6     32.1    29.4    26.6     24.2    26.7    26.2      25.6
Domestic GoP debt (% of GDP)                         40.4    38.9     35.7    33.5    30.8     29.9    31.8    29.4      30.8
Monetary sector
Broad money (annual change in %)                     15.4    18.0     19.6    19.3    14.9     19.3    15.3     9.6      12.5
Private credit (annual change in %)                  4.8     18.9     29.8    33.2    23.2     17.2    16.4     0.7      11.6
Six-monthtreasurybillrate(periodaverage;in%)         8.2      4.1     1.7     4.7      8.2     8.8      9.6    13.1
External sector
Merchandise exports, US$ (growth rate; in %)         2.3     20.1     13.5    16.2    14.3     4.4     18.2    -6.4      2.7
Merchandise imports, US$ (growth rate; in %)         -7.5    20.1     21.2    38.3    31.7     8.0     31.2    -10.3     -2.2
Current account balance (as % of GDP)                3.9      4.9     1.8     -1.4    -3.9    -4.8     -8.4    -5.6     -2.2
Current account balance (US$ millions)              2,833    4,070   1,812   -1,534  -4,990   -6,878  -13,874  -9,261   -3,495
Gross official reserves (US$ million)               4,337    9,529   10,564  9,805   10,765   14,302  8,731    9,529    13,953
In months of next year's imports of goods and services  3.7  6.5      5.0     3.5     3.7      3.8     2.6     2.9       3.9
Source:
1/ The source for 2009/10 numbers are GoP's and the numbers are preliminary (September 2010).
2/ GoP and IMF
moderating, by October 2009, inflationary pressures resurfaced again. The 12-month moving
average headline inflation which peaked to 22.1 percent in March 2009 moderated to 11.7
percent by June 2010, but started to gain momentum afterwards and hovered around 13.9 percent
in December 2010.
The current account deficit (CAD) narrowed beyond the set target of 5.9 percent of GDP to 5.6
percent of GDP in 2008/09 (Figure 2), driven by a deceleration in imports (exceeding that of
exports) and growing workers' remittances. This improvement continued in 2009/10 as CAD
was recorded at 2.2 percent of GDP. Financial inflows have continued contracting. Net capital
inflows decreased by 26 percent in 2008/09 and 13 percent in 2009/10.
20


﻿FDI which was at US$5.3 billion in 2007/08
declined to US$3.7 billion in 2008/09 and to  Figure 3: SBP's Foreign Exchange Reserves (US$ billion)
US$2.1 billion in 2009/10. However, despite  13 SDR allocation   SBA tranche
decreased financial inflows, SBP's official  12
foreign exchange reserves increased to US$13.1
billion by end-June 2010, largely due to IMF                  -
disbursements, without which, SBP reserves    8
7 -
would have been substantially lower than their
end-June 2009 level of US$9.1 billion. Overall,
this indicates the improved but still vulnerable
external sector (Figure 3).
Pillar 2: Enhancing Competitiveness
Sub-rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Recognizing that the private sector is the engine of growth, PRESO also focused on issues like
barriers to entry and strengthening of the financial sector. The outcome goal that "starting-a-
business" indicator envisaged an improvement of 5 days by reducing the number of days from 27
in 2008 to 22 in 2009. This was achieved as "IFC/World Bank Doing Business Report" observed
an actual improvement of 7 days. In addition, it was deemed important in PRESO to improve
competition policy framework by enhancing the role of CCP by strengthening its institutional
framework. For this CCP rules regarding the terms and condition of appointment were notified
and a mechanism of automatic sources of financing for CCP were set up in accordance with
PRESO. In order to strengthen the financial system and save it from systemic risks it was agreed
with SBP that prudential regulation would be amended to introduce a phased reduction in group
credit exposure limit from 50 percent to 25 percent over time. SBP has amended the regulations
and moving in the right direction. However, rigidities in the labor markets would need to be
tackled. GoP is moving forward with labor law reforms, albeit progress has been slow.
Pillar 3: Protecting the Poor and Vulnerable
Sub-rating: Moderately Satisfactory
In parallel with the stabilization program, PRESO aimed to improve GoP's social safety net
program BISP to protect the poor during economic adjustment. PRESO envisaged that a better
targeting mechanism is imperative for BISP to contribute towards protection of poor and
vulnerable from economic cycles. It was agreed with GoP that BISP would adopt a Proxy Means
Test based "poverty scorecard" as the new targeting instrument that would replace an ad-hoc
mechanism of selecting the beneficiaries through parliamentarians. A pilot phase in 15 selected
districts was launched with technical support from the Bank and funding from DFID. Upon
successful completion of the test phase and shifting of beneficiaries to the new eligibility list in
the districts where the poverty scorecard data was available, BISP is now in the process of
completing the national rollout of the poverty scorecard survey. This would bring transparency
21


﻿and credibility to the system. Another area to improve the transparency and credibility of GoP is
the improvement in the National Statistical System. In this regard, in GoP and the Bank agreed in
PRESO that a new Statistical Law will be approved by Cabinet which would provide autonomy
and basis for effective functioning of National Statistical System. This had also been achieved
too although there has not been much movement in terms of its approval from Parliament.
3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Overall performance of the operation remained mixed, with reforms progressing in two
areas, while stalling in the most important area of economic stabilization where outcomes
were partial or could not be sustained. Pillar 1 of PRESO was the lynchpin of the program and
was focused on regaining and maintaining macroeconomic stability in the near term. For
regaining of macroeconomic stability, current account deficit came down from 8.4 percent of
GDP in 2007/08 to 5.2 percent in 2008/09 and further improved to 2.2 percent in 2009/10, and
the fiscal deficit also improved albeit less than programmed as it declined from 7.6 percent of
GDP in 2007/08 to 5.2 percent in 2008/09. However, these gains could not be consolidated as
the macroeconomic situation became fragile by mid-2010. Inflation which has come down from
22.1 percent in 2008/09 to 11.7 percent at end 2009/10, started to deteriorate again. Structural
issues on the revenue mobilization agenda made some progress. FBR restructuring was a major
achievement and is supporting reinvigorated tax administration. Implementation of VAT,
however, is still unclear and this uncertainty has significantly affected the revenue mobilization
effort. The temporary introduction of monthly adjustment in consumer fuel prices was also
notable, and should not be let dismantled. The dialogue on the power sector remained difficult,
with the outcome falling short of expectations and significant power sector subsidies continuing.
On Pillar 2, there is good movement on enhancing competition in the private sector and
consolidation of the financial sector. There is significant progress in Pillar 3, with perceived
improvement in targeting mechanism through a poverty scorecard for poor and vulnerable.
Therefore, Overall performance of the program is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.
3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
As per Bank estimates, poverty rates in Pakistan have decreased significantly between 2001/02
and 2007/08, from 34.5 to 17.2 percent. The real GDP growth rate averaged well above 6.5
percent between 2002/03 and 2005/06, peaking at 9.0 percent in 2004/05, raising household
incomes and pushing up the per capita income to US$878 in 2006/07-an 18.3 percent increase
from US$742 of two years earlier. However, given the economic slowdown and the impact of
the recent floods over the last two years, poverty in Pakistan is on the rise, particularly in the
rural areas. (especially the crisis- and flood-affected areas) . To mitigate this, the Bank has joined
hands with GoP in designing a cash transfer program such as BISP to protect the vulnerable
22


﻿population from falling into poverty and is also designing a new cash transfer program to deal
with floods.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
As discussed earlier, reforming and bringing institutional changes through PRESO initiatives
remains an unfinished agenda notwithstanding some successes. One of the successes in early
2010/11 was the approval of a new integrated tax administration on a functional basis. This was
achieved despite a very strong resistance by some stakeholders. Similarly, PRESO envisaged the
improvement of competition policy framework by enhancing the role of CCP. Key steps in this
process were notifying CCP rules regarding the terms and condition of appointment, and the
establishment of an automatic financing mechanism for CCP. The Bank also helped BISP in
designing and implementing the Proxy Means Test based "poverty scorecard" as the new
targeting instrument that would replace an ad-hoc mechanism of selecting the beneficiaries
through parliamentarians. The temporary introduction of monthly adjustment to consumer fuel
prices and debt management are other two areas where significant progress was made. The role
of NEPRA and OGRA as regulator has weakened as GoP was unable to bring desired legal
amendments in the laws to empower these regulators to fulfill their functions independently.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
Not applicable
3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcomes
Rating: High
Progress on key reforms has been real, but slow and in a few cases reversed, mainly
hampered by political constraints and weak institutional capacity. Some reform initiatives
suffered from lack of policy will for implementation. It is also worth noting that Pakistan
remains vulnerable to exogenous shocks, as exemplified by recent floods of August-September
2010. In case of political and security risks, not much can be done to mitigate them, besides
remaining realistic and holding consultations with key stakeholders, which occurred under this
loan. In the case of fiscal and external risks, full implementation of PRESO was to mitigate these
risks in short run. PRESO highlighted the need for reducing inflation through correction of
domestic and external imbalances, enhanced revenue mobilization, adequately dealing with
expenditure pressures to reduce considerable short-term risks to macroeconomic sustainability,
and better managed public debt. Despite early success in 2008/09, Pakistan's economy remains
vulnerable to external shocks as depicted by the recent surge in international oil prices. Had GoP
implemented PRESO reform agenda fully and timely, economy's resilience to such shocks
would have had improved. Foreign exchange reserves increased in part through IMF's
disbursements, and in part due to exports and remittances. Further disbursements under IMF's
23


﻿SBA remain uncertain. Reforms in power sector have moved slowly, and in some cases
reversed, and large power sector subsidies are declining, but still persist. In fact, on January 6,
2011, GoP modified a good reform on automatic fuel price adjustment by OGRA where it has
taken away the regulator's power to notify fuel prices vis-d-vis international oil prices, only to
reintroduce fuel price adjustments in March on a discretional move. Political considerations have
stalled reform on implementation of VAT which is so crucial for the macroeconomic stability in
the medium term. All this indicates the persistence of structural weaknesses in the economy in
general, and in the fiscal and external sector in particular. Over time, full implementation of
PRESO's agenda and adjustment of policies (identified in the Program Document) could have
helped reduce the risk of resurfacing macroeconomic instability since 2010. All this is in the
context of a persistent insecurity situation that has hampered efforts to consolidate fiscal
situation and depressed investment.
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project team performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal was
Moderately Satisfactory. Despite a very fluid economic and political situation at the time of
conception of PRESO, the project team did reasonably well. The program yielded good results
although several initiatives designed in Pillar 1 appear to have been overwhelmed by
deterioration in the wider context, and while they did not meet their stated targets, results would
likely have been worse in the absence of this program. The team also showed considerable
resilience in trying to put reforms on track. However, the program team under estimated the
political dynamics of power and tax sectors subsidies and, even if it cannot be held responsible
for policy reversals in a context like Pakistan, it were too ambitious especially in eliminating
long-standing issues like large power sector subsidies or low revenue collection in a relatively
short time period.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank team continued its dialogue on reforms with GoP on the broad range of strategic
priorities supported by PRESO. It maintained a close policy dialogue, and this process was
facilitated by regular monitoring of outcomes, ongoing technical assistance, analytical work, and
other engagements as part of the overall lending program.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
24


﻿Overall, Bank performance was Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank supported
macroeconomic stabilization at a critical juncture, thus assisting GoP regain stability. Overall,
the operation was prepared in crisis circumstances in a couple of months. The operation built on
highly relevant reform actions and design addressed key issues in GoP's program of institutional
and policy reforms. However, it took place in the context of difficult political and economic
constraints. Perhaps, more could have been done to understand the political dynamics of these
reforms which would have helped Bank team to tailor a few measures in consonance with more
gradual and less ambitious program of reforms. Yet it is important to acknowledge that most
circumstances were beyond the control of Bank team. In some areas, GoP reversed actions taken
after the PRESO was approved by the Bank's Board. The Bank team was provided incorrect
estimates in the case of power sector. It turned out that the Government's action plan for power
sector subsidy elimination, which was provided to the Bank and the IMF, was based on incorrect
estimates.
5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) GoP Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
The operation was agreed by a coalition government which was dealing with a very significant
security situation and a looming balance of payments crisis, posing major challenges to GoP's
commitment to reforms. PRESO highlighted reforms in very crucial areas such as improving
revenue mobilization and elimination of power sector subsidies, which were imperative for
regaining macroeconomic stability and putting the country back on a sustainable growth path.
However, it failed in developing political consensus and political constraints led some reforms
lose sufficient ownership within the political system and society. Given the delays mentioned
above, the reversal of a few key reforms, and a vulnerable macroeconomic picture, (albeit under
a very demanding political situation) , borrower performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Not Applicable
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
Given the delays and partial policy reversals under a very demanding political situation
mentioned above and the ensuing mixed macroeconomic picture, which has deteriorated since
the project closed, borrower performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
6. Lesson Learned
Several lessons emerge from PRESO.
* PRESO program implementation was partly set back by lack of political will to complete
reform of the power sector timely and improve revenue mobilization on a sustainable basis.
25


﻿The PRESO team should have had to help create a broad-based constituency for these
reforms through a wider and inclusive stakeholder engagement. Thus, increased awareness
of the indirect (and second round) effects of the political economy of reforms would have
helped the Bank to fine tune the scope and timing of the reforms.
*  Ensuring ownership at the highest levels of GoP and other stakeholders is necessary, but was
not sufficient enough to achieve the development objective of the program. Continuous
dialogue and engagement with stakeholders beyond the GoP is necessary to facilitate passage
for reform. In addition, GoP may be asked to carry out a continuous outreach and public
awareness campaign to prepare the groundwork for successful implementation.
*  Prior experience suggests the need to address capacity and institutional issues upfront with
continuous technical assistance and capacity building to ensure that the reforms are followed
through, and are not reversed.
*  For Development Policy Lending to be successful it needs to be underpinned by robust and
timely analytical work based on quality and reliable data in each proposed reform area in
order to achieve informed policy decisions.
*  In a high risk environment where reform reversals are common, the Bank should continue
with stand alone operation within a multi-year Government reform program. Their flexibility
is more appropriate to changing circumstances and adjustable to context and policy changes,
which should be highly relevant for the preparation of future operations.
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrowers /Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies
Not Applicable.
(b) Co-financiers
Not Applicable
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable
26


﻿Annex 1: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process
(a) Task Team Members
Names                       Title              Unit    Responsibility
Specialty
Lending
Anjum Ahmad              Sr. Energy Specialist        SARDE
Shamsuddin Ahmad         Sr. Financial Sector Specialist  FPDPO
Rashid Aziz              Sr. Energy Specialist        SARDE
Gregory Horman           Consultant                   SASEP
Satu Kahkonen            Sector Manager               ECSP2
Shabana Khawar           Sr. Private Sector Development  CMEPI
Specialist
Andy Kotikula            Economist                    SASEP
Iftikhar Muhammad Malik  Sr. Social Protection Specialist  SASSP
Shaheen Malik            Research Analyst             SASEP
Eric David Manes         Sr. Economist                SASFP
Saadia Refaqat           Economist                    SASEP
Kaspar Richter           Sr. Economist                ECSP2
Martin Serrano           Sr. Counsel                  LEGES
Andrea Vermehren         Sr. Social Protection Specialist  SASSP
Tara Vishwanath          Lead Economist               MNSPR
Nobuo Yoshida            Sr. Economist                PRMPR
Rashid Aziz              Sr. Energy Specialist        SARDE
Anwar Ali Bhatti         Financial Analyst            SACPK
Christian Eigen- Zucchi  Special Assistant            MDM
Gregory Horman           Consultant                   SASEP
Muhammad Waheed          Economist                    SASEP
(b) Staff Time and Cost
Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage                            of staff weeks       US$ '000 (including travel
and consultant costs)
Lending
Total:                        58.08                   311647.89
Supervision/ICR
Total:                       10.81                   46547.41
27


﻿Annex 2: PRESO Project Development Outcomes Core Indicators (Up-Front Actions in
Bold)
2007/2008         2008/2009
Outcome indicators and targets:               Baseline           Actual
Pillar I: Regaining and Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability
Increased Revenue Mobilization:
Outcome goals: Increased tax to GDP ratio through
broadening of tax bases.
Outcome indicators and targets:
FBR tax revenues to GDP ratio increased by 0.4 percent of
GDP in 2008/09.                                             9.8         8.8
Actions to achieve outcome goal
Government approved establishment of a new integrated
tax administration on functional basis, and related FBR
top management changes implemented.                                     Completed
Task forces to pursue unregistered entities, non-filers and stop
filers established, and preparation of risk-based compliance
strategies launched.                                                    Completed
Large taxpayer Unit (LTU) or Regional Tax Office (RTO)
selected as pilot for the new Integrated Tax Systems based on
System 2009.                                                            Completed
Government approved policy action plan to amend
legislation  of  domestic indirect  taxes  to  ensure
comprehensive taxation of goods and services in the form
of VAT.                                                                 Completed
Measures to limit revenue leakage implemented.
Adjustment of Fuel Prices and Power Tariffs
Outcome goals: Reduced GoP subsidy bill.
Outcome indicators and targets:
Completed but
reform partly
1.6 percent of  reversed in
1. Fuel subsidies eliminated by end 2008.                  GDP         2010/11
1.3 percent of
2. Power sector subsidies eliminated by end June 2009.     GDP          Not completed
Actions to achieve outcome goal
Completed but
reform partly
Automatic monthly adjustment of consumer fuel prices                    reversed in
introduced, and a minimum level of PDL specified.                       2010/11
Monthly determination of fuel adjustment surcharge                      Completed but
introduced; new electricity tariffs notified in 15 days from            reform partly
determination or re-determination.                                      reversed
28


﻿Completed but
later it turned out
that GoP plan was
A satisfactory plan to eliminate power sector subsidies by               based on faulty
end June 2009 consistent with the budget adopted and                     numbers and was
implemented.                                                             modified.
Improved Efficiency of Public Spending
Outcome goal: Better prioritized development spending with
medium-term focus on the budget.
Outcome indicators and targets:
1. PSDP throw-forward reduced from 6.1 to 4.9 years in
2008/09.
2. Efficient cash balance management in place.                           Not Completed
3. Medium-term budget planning established                               Completed
4. Social and poverty-related public spending at least 4.5
percent of GDP.                                                          Not completed
Actions to achieve outcome goal
PSDP portfolio consolidated by at least 20 percent
consistent with development priorities.                                  Completed
MTBF expanded to all federal ministries, revised Budget Call
Circular and 3-year indicative ceilings provided to line
ministries.                                                              Completed
Use of assignment accounts for budget expenditure fully
operational.                                                             Completed
Contract awards over Rs. 50 million posted on PPRA's
website.                                                                 Completed
Strengthened GoP Debt Management:
Outcome goal: GoP debt managed at lowest cost, subject to
prudent level of risk and consistent with sound monetary and
fiscal policy.
Outcome indicators and targets:
Completed but
1. GoP borrowing consistent with sound monetary and fiscal               reversed in
policy.                                                                  2009/10
2. Domestic debt-servicing forecast of National Saving
Schemes instruments differs from actual outturn by less than
5 percent.                                                               Completed
3. Public guarantees annually at or below 2 percent of GDP.              Completed
Actions to achieve outcome goal
Credible January-June 2009 calendar for PIB auctions
published and adhered to, with quarterly updates.                        Completed
MoF amended rules defining roles and decision-making
rights for PIB issuance and issued related instructions to
SBP.                                                                     Completed
Central Directorate of National Savings (CDNS) has gathered
complete data on outstanding and early encashment of
Defense Savings Certificates due to mature in 2008/09 and
2009/10.                                                                 Completed
Pillar II: Enhancing Competitiveness
29


﻿Reduced Barriers to Competition
Outcome goal: Enhanced competition in domestic markets.
Outcome indicator and target:
1. Starting a business time reduced from 27 days in 2008 to               Completed (20
22 days in 2009.                                                          days)
Actions to achieve outcome goal
CCP rules notified providing the terms and conditions of
CCP members; and automatic source of financing.                           Completed
Electronic platform for business registration system rolled out
and announced.                                                            Completed
Strengthened Financial Sector:
Outcome goal: Increased soundness and stability of the
financial sector.
Outcome indicator and target:
1. Lending portfolio of banks diversified over time.                      Completed
Actions to achieve outcome goal
Group Exposure     Group   Exposure
Prudential regulations amended to introduce a phased   limit 50 percent of  limit 45 percent of
reduction in the group credit exposure limit from  50  Bank's equity at   Bank's equity at
percent to 25 percent over time.                       end 2008           end 2009
Pillar III: Protection of the Poor and Vulnerable
Better Targeted Social Safety Net:
Outcome goal: Improved targeting and implementation of
cash transfer and safety net programs.
Outcome indicator and target:
1. Increased coverage of the poorest 25 percent of the
population by BISP.                                                       Not Completed
Actions to achieve outcome goal
Government adopted the scorecard as the new targeting
instrument for BISP and notified the plan for its roll out,
with the roll-out launched in January 2009.                               Completed
Strengthened National Statistical System:
Outcome goal: More reliable and timely economic and
social data for policy analysis and formulation.
Outcome indicator and target:
1. Increased reliability of the national statistical system.              Completed
Actions to achieve outcome goal
A new Statistics Law, strengthening autonomy and
functioning of national statistical system, approved by
Cabinet.                                                                  Completed
30


﻿Annex 3: PRESO Policy Matrix
Overall outcome goals:    Overall outcome indicators and targets:
1. Reduced macroeconomic  1. Fiscal deficit (excl. grants) reduced from 7.4 percent of GDP in
imbalances.               2007/08 to or below 4.3 percent of GDP in 2008/09.
2. Improved equity and    2. Current account deficit reduced from 8.4 percent of GDP in
efficiency of public      2007/08 to or below 5.9 percent of GDP in 2008/09.
finances.              3. Improved Doing Business Indicators.
3. Enhanced               4. Improved access to social safety nets for the poorest 25 percent
competitiveness.          of the population.
4. Improved protection of
the 2oor and vulnerable.
ila 1: Regaini  g   Manann Mareoictblt
Increased Revenue Mobilization:
Outcome goal: Increased   Outcome indicator and target:
tax to GDP ratio through   1. FBR tax revenues to GDP ratio increased by 0.4 percent of
broadening of tax bases.     GDP in 2008/09.
4   Government approved establishment of a new integrated tax administration on
functional basis, and related FBR top management changes implemented.
O   Task forces to pursue unregistered entities, non-filers and stop filers established, and
preparation of risk-based compliance strategies launched..
o        LTU or RO selected as pilot for the new Integrated Tax Systems based on System
2009.
*   Government approved policy action plan to amend legislation of domestic
indirect taxes to ensure comprehensive taxation of goods and services in the form
of VAT.
*   Measures to limit revenue leakage implemented.
Adjustment of fuel prices and power tariffs:
Outcome goal: Reduced     Outcome indicators and targets:
G1. Fuel subsidies eliminated by end 2008.
*   Governmentapprved2. Power sector subsidies eliminated by end June 2009.
i Automatic monthls ac emehensuetti         prices introduced, and a
minimum level of WD  specified.
s         Monthly determination of fuel adjustment surcharge introduced; new electricity
 tariffs notified in 15 days from determination or re-determination.
*   A satisfactory plan to eliminate power sector subsidies by end June 2009
consistent with the budget adopted and implemented.
Improved efficiency of public spending:
Outcome goal: Better      Outcome indicators and targets:
prioritized development    1. PSDP throw-forward reduced from 6.1 to 4.9 years in 2008/09.
spending with medium-term  2. Efficient cash balance management in place.
31


﻿focus on the budget.        . Me ium-term budget lannin established
4. Social and poverty-re ated pu lic spending at least 4.5 percent
of GDP.
*   The PSDP portfolio consolidated by at least 20 percent consistent with
development priorities.
*   MTBF expanded to all federal ministries, revised Budget Call Circular and 3-year
*oindicative ceilings provided to line ministries.
*   Use of assignment accounts for budget expenditure fully operational.
*   Contract awards over Rs. 50 million posted on PPRA's website.
Strengthened GoP debt management:
Outcome goal: GoP debt     Outcome indicators and targets:
managed at lowest cost,
subje t oent leeof 1. Government borrowing consistent with sound monetary and
subject to prudent level ofpolicy.
risk and consistent with   2. Domestic debt-servicin forecast ofNSS instruments differs
sound monetary and fiscal     from actual outturn by ess than 5%.
.Public guarantees annually at or below 2 percent of GDP.
policy.
* Credible January-June 2009 calendar for PIB auctions published and adhered to, with
quarterly updates.
g     *   MoF amended rules defining roles and decision-making rights for PIB issuance
and issued related instructions to SBP.
* CDNS has gathered complete data on outstanding and early encashment of Defense
Savings Certificates due to mature in 2008/09 and 2009/10.
ila 11 Ehni       g ptiiens
Reduced barriers to competition:
Outcome goal: Enhanced     Outcome indicator and target:
competition in domestic
markets.                   1. Starting a business time reduced from 27 days in 2008 to 22
m ark ets.                    days  in  2009.
*   CCP rules notified providing the terms and conditions of CCP members; and
automatic source of financing.
*   Electronic platform for business registration system rolled out and announced.
Strengthened Financial Sector:
Outcome goal: Increased    Outcome mdicator and target:
soundness and stability of  1. Lending portfolio of banks diversified over time.
the financial sector.
Prudential regulations amended to introduce a phased reduction in the group
credit exposure limit from 50 percent to 25 percent over time.
32


﻿Better targeted social safety net:
Outcome goal: Improved     Outcome indicator and target:
targeting and
1. Increased coverage of the poorest 25 percent of the population
implementation of cash         by BISP.
transfer and safety net
programs.
Government adopted the scorecard as the new targeting instrument for BISP and
notified the plan for its roll out, with the roll-out launched in January 2009.
Strengthened national statistical system:
Outcome goal: More         Outcome indicator and target:
reliable and timely economic
an   ial dta fooic    1. Increased reliability of the national statistical system.
and social data for policy
analysis and formulation.
* A new Statistics Law, strengthening autonomy and functioning of national statistical
system, approved by Cabinet.
33


﻿Annex 4: Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Government of Pakistan Comments on Draft ICR:
We believe that the overall ICR rating of Pakistan's performance in PRESO as 'Moderately
Unsatisfactory' due to slippages in some macroeconomic indicators is not a correct evaluation of
the circumstances, and thus gives an incomplete picture of the challenges faced by the
policymakers (as discussed below). Additionally, in two out of three pillars of PRESO, the
country is rated "moderately satisfactory", which only further justifies for Pakistan an overall
rating of 'moderately satisfactory'.
Regaining and Maintaining Macroeconomic Stability
While talking about regaining and maintaining macroeconomic stability the ICR ignores the key
challenges facing Pakistan. These challenges (detailed below) are caused by both endogenous
and exogenous factors and are the major reasons behind deteriorating macroeconomic situation
of the country.
First, Pakistan's status as a frontline state in war on terror has fuelled the security related
expenditure and especially expenses related to the issue of IDPs during the past two years.
Further, the security related challenges have worsened the local investment environment,
decreasing the net flow of foreign investment to 0.8 percent of GDP in FY2011 from 21 percent
in FY2009.
Secondly, Pakistan's economy remains stressed in the aftermath of the unprecedented floods.
The government reprioritized its spending pattern and scaled down Development expenditures to
create space for the flood relief activities. The spending shock (e.g., for flood relief) as well as
the unexpected weakness in the revenue receipts (also partly a consequence of floods) duplicated
the pressures on the fiscal side and undermined the key macro indicators. Similarly, this report
has also not considered the effect of economic slowdown of the world economies on the Pakistan
economy. FODP have not fully honored their commitment, which further intensified pressure on
macro indicator.
In the wake of building up of pressure on the macroeconomic indicators due to fiscal constraints,
efforts are being made to underline the urgent need to broaden the tax base, and rationalize
spending growth, to better insulate the economy from shocks. There are some signs of progress
in containing expenditure, with cuts in development spending, moves towards reduction in
subsidies, and progress towards the devolution of ministries to provinces.
The government is cognizant of the continued delays in the implementation of key economic
reforms. While the growing macroeconomic imbalances in the economy are still quite
manageable, further delay in implementing critical structural adjustments risks significantly
increasing the future costs to the economy. Recognizing the urgent need, the government have
initiated following reforms:
34


﻿Reorganizing FBR - Institutional and operational measures to improve the receipts mechanism
of the FBR is well underway. FBR has been reorganized in order to improve efficiency through
better accountability, follow up and coordination by reducing the number of positions of Board
Members from twelve to eight. Two positions of Members Policy, Direct & Indirect Taxes and
Two positions of Members Operations (North/South) have been abolished and two new slots of
Member Inland Revenue and Member RGST have been created. Integrating domestic Taxes -
The Tax administration has been successfully restructured on integrated and functional lines. All
the three domestic taxes i.e. Income Tax, Sales Tax and Federal Excise have been brought under
Inland Revenue. Strengthening Policy Framework - Revenue Division has been reinvigorated
in order to consolidate the Fiscal Policy framework. It is now properly staffed with one
Additional Secretary, one joint Secretary and two Deputy Secretaries.
Broadening Tax Base - With the purpose of a focused and comprehensive approach towards
one of the major challenges of Broadening the Tax Base, a new Directorate has been setup. The
new DG (Broadening of Tax Base) has been posted and serious work on broadening of tax base
is in progress. Enforcement - Following enforcement measures are being taken to enhance
compliance for which the time lines have been set: Filing of sales tax returns to be ensured from
the top 1,000 short filer/non-filer companies by 15th April, 2011; audit of withholding tax in
respect of all banks to be conducted and completed all over the country by 15th April, 2011. DG
(BTB) to ensure implementation of this decision, Member (IR) will ensure compliance of WHT
on air tickets by the three domestic airlines; recovery of inadmissible input tax adjustment of
sales tax and supplies made by blacklisted companies, as identified by the IT system by single
point audit, is to be ensured by 30th April, 2011. With the technical assistance of the World
Bank, FBR is in the process of institutionalizing a standard set of performance indicators
produced automatically by the operational IT Systems. RGST Bill has already been passed by
Senate (upper House) and is under legislative process before the National Assembly. FBR is
working on the operational aspects of proposed RGST to be prepared for implementation in case
the bill is passed by the Parliament.
Elimination of public subsidies on fuel and electricity is a central part of moving
Government's finances onto a sustainable footing. The Government eliminated petroleum
subsidies by December 2008. In January 2009, the Government again started the monthly
automatic adjustment of consumer fuel prices to pass on changes in international prices. Similar
effort is being carried out in the area of energy, which has been progressing adequately though at
a slower pace.
Protecting the Poor and the Vulnerable
Nevertheless, given the economic slowdown in the country since FY 2008/09 and the impact of
internal and external factors including recent floods in Year 2010, poverty in Pakistan is
presumably on the rise, particularly in the rural areas. In order to prop up these effects, several
initiatives/reform programs were initiated by the Government of Pakistan (GOP) both on the
social and economic fronts.
35


﻿On the social front, Pakistan has a fairly elaborate network of direct and indirect social protection
and social safety net mechanisms. Under the PRESO support, nevertheless, efforts were made to
strengthen the social safety net system in Pakistan through initiation of Benazir Income Support
Program (BISP) for chronic and transitory poor and the vulnerable in Pakistan. Under the BISP,
GOP not only focused to disburse small cash grants to the poor but also introduced, developed
and adopted the Poverty Score Card to segregate poorest of the poor and non poor at the country
level. In fulfillment of the requirement of the PRESO, at the close of FY, 20009/10, the GOP has
collected Poverty Score data from 56 districts and NADRA is in the process of compiling the
same. The data collection for Poverty Score Card is in process now in 29 districts making the
total to 85. The survey is expected to be completed by June 2011 and beneficiary lists would be
updated accordingly as and when PSC data is available.
The management and implementation of social safety nets program has shown large positive
growth during last two fiscal years from FY 2008/09 to FY 2009/10. Under the PRESO, BISP
has increased both its outreach and beneficiary support. Overall transfers through all programs
showed a net increase of 69 percent in terms of grants and 39 percent in terms of beneficiaries
during FY 2009/10 compared to the last FY 2008/09. During FY 2009/10, 78 percent i.e. Rs.
42.26 billion of the grants were of the budgetary mode and 22 percent i.e. Rs. 11.74 billion were
of the non budgetary mode against 66 percent and 44 percent, receptively in the same period last
year. During FY 2009/10 a large proportion of the amount, about 59 percent was disbursed
through Benazir Income Support Program; followed by 15 percent through Punjab Sasti Roti
Program, 12 percent through Employees Old age Beneficiary Institutions (EOBI), 5 percent
through Zakat, 5 percent through Workers Welfare Fund and 4 percent through Pakistan Batiul-
ul-Mal. These disbursements were made to 6,070,160 beneficiaries; 39 percent more than the
comparable period last fiscal year. A total of Rs. 33,775 million, 15 percent more under the
microcredit was disbursed in terms of Rs.1,966,457 loans during FY 2009/10 against Rs. 28,669
million and 1,939,050 loans compared to FY 2008/09. A detailed table on the social safety nets
program is annexed.
Under the PRESO objective C for protecting the poor and vulnerable, there has been more than
satisfactory performance particularly under the BISP as explained above. Some other elements
are given as under:
*  In order to strengthen the safety net system and increase coverage, under the PRESO,
the process of collection and compilation of Poverty Score Card data is fully taken off
now in the remaining districts and completion of the process would further help in
better and transparent targeting.
*  During FY 2009/10, a large proportion of the social safety net support, about 59
percent in terms of grant and around 50 percent in terms of beneficiaries, was given
through the Benazir Income Support Program (BISP) to the poor and the vulnerable,
which ensured that better management and implementation capacities are in place.
36


﻿*  In almost two years' time, the BISP has increased its outreach and access in all parts of
the country both with institutional and administrative set up and in the year to the
completion of the PSC survey, which would help to target 5-7 million families from
2.29 million families now.
*  The positive impact of the poverty related, social protection and other social safety
nets programs on the income and vulnerability of the poor will be more visible in the
years to come.
Amjad Mahmood
Joint Secretary
External Finance Policy
Annex
Social Safety Nets Programme
Programme                Disbursement / Beneficiaries  FY 2008/09  FY 2009/10
Budgetary Transfers
Amount disbursed (Rs. millions)  3,432        2,261
Pakistan Bait-ul-Mal (all
Programmes)                   Total beneficiaries      1,158,922    2,110,355
Amount disbursed (Rs. billion)   15.8        32.0
BISP                      Total beneficiaries       17,60,000    22,90,000
Amount disbursed (Rs. billion)   1.90         8.0
Punjab Sasti Roti Program (PSRP)  Total beneficiaries (million)     -           -
Amount disbursed (Rs. billion)   21.13        42.26
1. Sub Total: Budgetary
Transfers                Total beneficiaries       2,9189,22   4,400,355
Non - Budgetary Transfers
Zakat                Amount disbursed (Rs. millions)  2,877       2,874
Total beneficiaries       1,085,378   1,289,050
Amount disbursed (Rs. millions)  5,787        6,442
EOBI                       Total beneficiaries       290,000      310,352
37


﻿Workers Welfare Fund (WWF)*     Amount disbursed (Rs. millions)  2,087       2,432
Total beneficiaries        63,008      70,403
Amount disbursed (Rs. millions)  10,751       11,748
2. Sub Total: Non budgetary
transfers               Total beneficiaries        14,38,386   1,669,805
Amount disbursed (Rs. In billions)  31.88      54.01
Total: 1+2                  Total beneficiaries       4,357,308    6,070,160
Micro Finance           Amount disbursed (Rs. millions)  28,669       33,775
(micro credit only)                Total Loans            1,939,050    1,966,457
38


﻿Annex 5: List of Supporting Documents
IMF (2008) "Pakistan: 2007 Article IV Consultation - Staff Report; Staff Statement; Public
Information Notice on the executive Board Discussion; and Statement by the Executive Director
for Pakistan"
IMF (2009) "Pakistan: 2009 Article IV Consultation and First Review Under the Stand-By
Arrangement-Staff Report; Staff Statement; Public Information Notice and Press Release on
the Executive Board Discussion; and Statement by the Executive Director for Pakistan"
IMF (2010) "Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 00/108 December 14, 2000"
Implementation Completion and Results Report (June 2010), Poverty Reduction Support Credit
II, ICRO001344
Implementation Completion and Results Report (June 2010), Poverty Reduction Support Credit
I, ICR0001556
Presentation, Pakistan Power Sector Reforms, September 27, 2010
PRSC II, Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between Government of Pakistan (GoP) and
International Development Association (IDA), at Islamabad, Pakistan, on March 26, 2007
PRSC II, Aide Memoire dated August 23, 2005 - Summary of Status of PRSC II Prior Actions
and Next Steps.
PRSC II, Aide Memoire dated February 12, 2007.
World Bank (2009) "Pakistan Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note on the Second Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-II)"
39


﻿Annex 6: List of People Consulted
From the GoP
Chaudhry Naveed Akbar, Director Operations, BISP
Dr. Ashfaque H. Khan, Dean, National University of Science and Technology Business School
Dr. Joseph Wilson, Commissioner, CCP
Dr. Waqar Masood Khan, Secretary, MoF
Mr. Abdullah Yusuf, Ex-Chairman, FBR
Mr. Ahmed Qadir, Director, Competition Commission Pakistan.
Mr. Amjad Mehmood, Joint Secretary, External Finance Policy, , MoF
Mr. Arif Mehmood Cheema, Director General, Federal Bureau of Statistics
Mr. Khurram Humayun, Director General, BISP
Mr. Mahmood Akhtar, Additional Secretary, Planning and Development Division, MoF
Mr. Masroor Qureshi, Director General (DPCO), MoF
Mr. Mohammad Sher Khan, Managing Director, BISP
Mr. Muhammad Asif Sheikh, Specialist PSDP, Planning and Development Division
Mr. Muhammad Ismail Qureshi, Secretary, Establishment Division
Mr. Muhammad Javaid Ismail, Additional Director, Banking Surveillance Department, SBP
Mr. Sakib Shirani, Principle Economic Adviser, MoF
Mr.Shahid Sattar, Adviser, Ministry of Water and Power
Ms. Rahat Kaunain Hassan, Chairperson, CCP
Ms. Sumaira K. Aslam, Joint Secretary, MoF
Rana Asad Amin, Additional Secretary (Budget Wing, Finance Division), MoF
Syed Insaf Ahmad, Director General Tariff, NEPRA
From the World Bank
Raghuveer Sharma, Lead Financial Analyst, ECSSD
Rashid Aziz, Senior Energy Specialist, SASDE
Anjum Ahmad, Senior Energy Specialist, SASDE
Cem Mete, Senior Economist, SASSP
Iftikhar Malik, Senior Social Protection Specialist
Eric David Manes, Senior Economist, SASSP
40


﻿Hanid Mukhtar, Senior Economist, SASEP
Muhammad Iftikhar Malik, Senior Social Protection Specialist, SASSP
Rashid Aziz, Senior Energy Specialist, SASDE
Satu Kahkonen, Sector Manager, ECSP2
Tara Vishwanath, Lead Economist, SASEP
Gregory Horman, Debt Management Consultant, BDM
Nobuo Yoshida, Senior Economist, PRMPR
Jose R. Lopez Calix, Lead Country Economist and Sector Leader, SASEP
41


﻿IBRD 33460R
PAKISTAN
o   SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                          MAIN ROADS
o    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                 RAILROADS
®    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
RIVERS                                      - - -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
6E.0 )TAJIKISTAN                                                     5E
CHINA
C5-       K2
Q_  tM. Godwn-
o,                        Austen)
PAKISTchitral
35NKHYB ER                                                                            Approximäte
S>PAKHTUNKHWA                                                                                         uneoräcntrol
oSaidu     .'''     .
TO Mjzaffarabad                             Kargil
--                               ~~Kabul   .   ehwr...                Srinagar
... -B...                  Jammu
kwliS nA    and Kashmir
SF            PITAL
AFGHANISTAN                                                TERRITORY
1SLAMABAD1
e/ Gujrat
GujranwaLa-
TO                    D.1.Khan                                    Mand
Kondahar
zhob                        Faisö16bad Lao
Chamnanh                           P UO                          LuAdBi''aT
ZhSalwl0                                   Bhoainda  Ldin
QD.. Ka                           ultan                          30N
TO
Kerman                                                                            Bahawalpur
Nok Kundi                                                                   .,
SurabeKk
ISI.AMIC
REPUBLIC                                                                           ·ID
_j                                                   'Runths  Pngu  aipur 0
OF     T     .                                           Ranipuur
IRAN    Khs
Toro
T -~  urbat CentrBel                               SIND H
KennOanBeaT
Jodhpur
Gwadar
25Ný Pasni                                          Hyderaba25
2 5N
KaraChi* Tha Badin
This ..op o'uprod-d by
the Map De,g. Uito ThA                                    J  Rann of Kutch
World Bk. The boundaries,
wlors, deoniootions ond                                                            0   50  100  150  200 Kilometers
ony other infomarnoo shown
othis ..op do -ot i.nply, o_                                                          ____________
the Prt of The World Bank                                                            I                   Miles
Group, any judgmnent on d                                                            0     50   -100   150 Miles
legal status of any territory,
or ony endorseoment or
cceptance  of such
houndariNs.                 65E                                     70E                                     75E
NOVEMBER 2010


