Report No. 23865
Report No: I074320 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 05/01/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: SIERRA LEONE    Project ID: P074320
Project: Rehabilitation of Basic Education       Task Team Leader: Adriana
Jaramillo
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 7, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: July 9, 2002      IDA Amount ($m): 20.00
Managing Unit: AFTH2     Sector: EP - Primary Education; ER - System Reform &
Capacity Building; ES - Secondary Education
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
1.1 The objectives of the project are to assist the Government of Sierra
Leone to re-establish the education services in the post-conflict
situation, and prepare the grounds for building up the sector.
Specifically the project will: (i) assist participating schools to achieve
basic operational standards, defined in terms of trained teachers and
headmasters, basic textbooks and learning materials, furniture, and safe
and healthy school environment: (ii) develop a partnership between the
Ministry of Youth Education and Sports (MYES), civil society and
international community to build up the school system, and; (iii) build up
the capacity of MYES to plan and manage the delivery of education
services.
1.2 The rehabilitation of the school system will be done building upon the
current delivery of services, mainly by private sector providers
(missions and NGOs), and based upon participatory planning focusing on
underserved areas. To monitor the evolution of the school system, the
Fundamental Quality Level (FQL) criteria will be used. The FQL is a set of
agreed criteria that can evolve over time as minimal standards are met for
the majority of schools. In this project FQL will be limited to include
readily measured inputs to achieve a Basic Operational level. This level
is defined as schools where a physical structure safe for children is
available and supplied with basic furniture, main textbooks and teaching
and learning materials, one teacher per 40 students and a school
management committee. As implementation of the project progresses and
transition into the post-conflict situation evolves, a second phase of the
school system will be developed, and the FQL criteria can become more
exigent and inclusive, placing emphasis on quality of the services
provided. Progression into the second phase can only occur when about 80;
of 6-15 year old children will have access to schooling; a follow-up
project is envisioned to support the system at this stage.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Component I: Emergency response to rehabilitate the provision of school
services (US$37 M)



1.1. The objective of this component is to rehabilitate the school system
by assisting the government to support the current service providers to
upgrade the current provision of services and to expand to underserved
populations.  By the end of the project at least    50t of schools in every
district should meet these standards.    The project will encourage service
providers to expand coverage in underserved areas. It will also help
build the capacity of district education offices to assume increasing
levels of responsibility for the development and management of education.
The Grants Program
Proposal formats and instructions will be detailed in a Grants Operations
Manual, to be finalized by Government and agreed with IDA and the AfDB
prior to negotiations. (Guidelines for submission of proposals are found
in annex 2)
Definitions
For the purposes of this program education service providers are defined
as (i) established and functioning district education offices; (ii)
missions; or (iii) NGOs or CBOs working in education.
Basic operational standards are defined as (i) a safe, furnished school
building; (ii) the presence of minimally trained teachers, at the
recommended maximum student:teacher ratio of 40:1; (iii) a core set
textbooks for every child; and (iv) a functioning school support
structure, in the form of a school management committee or PTA and
supportive district education office.
Target areas
Resources will be notionally allocated to the districts based a formula
that takes account of levels of damage to the schooling infrastructure and
population. Notional allocations may be revised from time to time based
on project progress in the districts or evidence of shifting population.
The estimated allocations at the time of the appraisal mission are:
District        Damage scale     W total population       Damage x Pop. Notional Allocation
Urban Freetown   1       19.3    19.3    2,117,734
Bonthe  1        2.6     2.6     285,291
Rural Freetown   1       4.7     4.7     515,718
Bo      1        6.9     6.9     757,117
Kenema  3        9.0     27.0    2,962,633
Moyamba 3        7.2     21.6    2,370,107
Tonkolili        4       5.9     23.6    2,589,561
Pujehun 4       2.7      10.8    1,185,053
Bombali 4        9.4     37.6    4,125,741
Kambia  5        4.6     23.0    2,523,725
Port Loko        5       7.4     37.0    4,059,905
Kono    5        9.5     47.5    5,212,040
Koinadugu        7       4.3     30.1    3,302,788
Kailahun         7       6.5     45.5    4,992,586
Total            100.0   337.2   37,000,000
Note: districts in italics have been tentatively earmarked for AfDB
funding and districts in standard font for IDA funding.
Relationship of missions, NGOs and CBOs to the district education office
The project preparation team recognized that some district education
offices are stronger than others. Component 2 supports activities to
build capacity in the education system as a whole, but implementation of
- 2 -



the grant activities to be funded by Component 1 also offer opportunities
for growth and development. The project therefore encourages missions and
NGOs/CBOs to conduct needs assessments, develop proposals, and implement
projects in close collaboration with district offices. District offices
will be the first point of coordination of proposals to ensure that
proposals do not overlap with regard to schools or activities to be
supported.
Basic eligibility criteria for receiving grants
Service providers submitting proposals should demonstrate (i) that key
personnel are in place; (ii) capacity to procure goods and services
according to project regulations; (iii) financial management and reporting
capacity; and (iv) capacity to monitor and report on project activities.
The MYES will carry out an institutional capacity assessment of all
service providers submitting large proposals (above $25,000). (This
requirement may be waived in whole or in part for service providers who
have qualified for large grants under NACSA). A detailed format for
assessing the institutional capacity of service providers is included in
the grants operations manual. Service providers which do not demonstrate
the capacity to procure and manage large civil works contracts will be
requested to work with an approved works management agent in
implementation.
Schools earmarked for support in grant proposals should (i) have proof of
registration as a school or authorization to operate from the MYES; (ii) a
student enrollment of at least 50 students.
Eligible expenditures
Grants will be made against a positive list of eligible expenditures.
Items on this list include:
n Construction, renovation, or repair of school facilities
n Classroom furniture
n Textbooks
n Teaching and learning materials
n Teacher and headmaster training
fn Teacher resettlement/reintegration
n School based peace education initiatives
n Non-formal or alternative education programs for overage children
n Training for school management committees or PTAs
n Management support and overhead, not to exceed 10t of the total value of
the proposal
Proposal review
Proposals will be submitted to a Technical Committee in the MYES for
initial review and comment and then passed to the Project Steering
Committee (PSC) for decision. The PSC will meet on at least a quarterly
basis to review proposals. Proposal review will ensure: (i) compliance
with basic eligibility criteria (outlined above); (ii) that the value of
the proposal does not exceed a notional allocation for each district;
(iii) that estimated unit costs for eligible expenditures are reasonable
and in accordance with norms agreed with IDA; (iv) that the implementation
plan is realistic and achievable within 2 years; and (v) that schools
-3 -



there is no duplicate support for schools.
Grants management
Contracts will be awarded by the MYES to the service providers for the
implementation of approved proposals. A model contract will be provided
in the Grants Operations Manual, specifying activities to be carried out,
expected outputs, reporting obligations, and procurement arrangements.
Service providers will be responsible for implementation of their grants.
They will be advanced 25t of the value of the approved proposal, or an
amount otherwise agreed on the basis of cash flow requirements for
implementing the grant activities. Replenishment will be made upon
presentation of statements of accounts, with required up documentation
(requests for replenishment should not be smaller than 10. of the value of
the entire proposal). Grant recipients will required to submit progress
reports to the MYES on a quarterly basis, detailing progress toward agreed
goals and highlighting implementation issues which need attention. All
grants will be audited on an annual basis.
Project Component 2 Enhance Institutional Capacity of the MYES (US$5.6
million)
The already weak MYES' institutional capacity has been further debilitated
by several years of turmoil and civil strife. The lack of financial
investment in the sector as well as insufficient and low qualified
manpower have seriously undermined the MYES' ability to deal with its
daily management tasks. As a result, the MYES has not been able to
perform to an adequate level to meet the increasing demand for education.
In this context of emergency, the main concern for the reconstruction of
Sierra Leone's education system is to ensure that all children have access
to education services under the basic operation level standard. To
support this objective, the Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project will
seek in its second component to enhance the institutional capacity of the
MYES in order to (i) effectively assist in the implementation of the
aforementioned project and (ii) empower the MYES to regulate the entire
sector as well as monitor and supervise the delivery of education
services.   The latter is defined as MYES having the capacity to carry out
strategic leadership, policymaking, planning the need in the sector,
mobilizing resources and expand access and quality education through
promoting partnership.
In the current post-conflict situation and in view of increasing the
likelihood of a successful and swift implementation of this education
project, it is essential that capacity building activities be focused on a
limited number of well defined priorities (with clear and agreed outputs
and outcomes) and be closely linked with the activities supported by the
project (in particular the provision of education services under the BOL
standard). In consequence, this second project component will intervene
in four key areas, described as follows:
1. The establishment within the MYES of a small Project Coordination Unit
(PCU). The PCU will have the overall responsibility of coordinating the
activities to be funded under the project. The PCU will, thus, provide
technical leadership to support the overall project implementation.
- 4 -



2. The strengthening of MYES' core management functions in three key
areas: planning, finance and human resources. In the short term, the
objective is to quickly provide support/expertise in order to enable key
MYES' directorates in taking full responsibility for the implementation of
project activities. In the medium term, the objective is to develop
lasting and sound management systems to effectively and adequately carry
out the functions of planning, finance and human resources.
3. The provision of four school annual surveys to duly inform on the
progress made towards achieving the BOL and the setting up of an Education
Management Information System (EMIS) to provide all required information
for planning, prospective work and policymaking.
4. Finally, the strengthening of the overall quality assurance system
based upon: (i) the MYES redefined role of Inspectorate Offices (IO) for
quality control and support/pressure framework; and (ii) the
establishment of School Management Committees (SMC).
Components:
1. Emergency response to rehabilitate the school system
2. Capacity Building of MYES
3. PPF
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will have national coverage, priority districts will be
determined at appraisal.
Final approval of school sites will be done by MYES and Project Steering
Committee.
Land take for construction of schools will not be an issue.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Comments: The project has been classified as a B due to
potential environmental and social impact of construction activities.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
-5-



II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Potential impacts relate to construction of schools.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Not applicable.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Not applicable.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
Not applicable.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Communities and ministries. Environmental assessment to be disclosed at
public (i.e. meetings in-country and at the Bank's Infoshop).
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
1 S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      1/17/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure 2/8/2002
Date of submission to InfoShop   2/8/2002
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
-6-



Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:       Adriana Jaramillo        03/14/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Charlotte S. Bingham/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:    Name     Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Serigne Omar Fye        03/15/2002
Sector Manager/Director:         Alexandre V. Abrantes   03/14/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-7 -



