Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23413-SL
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.1 MILLION (US$ 20.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR A
REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
January 28, 2003
Human Development II
Country Department 10
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 28, 2002)
Currency Unit = Leone (Le)
Le 1923 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = Le 0.00052
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                              African Development Bank
ALP                               Accelerated Learning Programme
BECE                              Basic Education Certificate Examination
BOG                               Board of Governors
BOL                               Basic Operational Level
CAGD                              Controller and Accountant General Directorate
CAS                               Country Assistance Strategy
CBO                               Community Based Organization
CDD                               Community-Driven Development
CREPS                             Complementary Rapid Education for Primary Schools
CSO                               Central Statistics Office
CTB                               Central Tender Board
DFID                              Department for International Development (U.K.)
DDR                               Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration
DEO                               District Education Office
EA                                Environmental Assessment
ECOMOG                            Economic Monitoring Group
ECOWAS                            Economic Community of African States
EMIS                              Education Management Information System
EU                                European Union
FMA                               Financial Management Agent
FMR                               Financial Management Report
FPMA                              Financial and Procurement Management Agent
GER                               Gross Enrollment Rate
GOSL                              Government of Sierra Leone
HIPC                              Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Debt Initiative
IBRD                              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                               International Development Association
IDP                               Internally Displaced Person
I-PRSP                            Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
JSS                               Junior Secondary School
MDG                               Millenium Development Goals
MEST                              Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
MICS                              Multiple Cluster Indicators Survey
MODEP                             Ministry of Development and Economic Planning
NaCSA                             National Commission for Social Action (previously NCRRR)
NEC                               National Education Committee
NFPE                              Non-Formal Primary Education



NGO                               Non-governmental Organization
NPSE                              National Primary School Examination
NRC                               Norwegian Refugee Council
NSSR                              National School Survey Report
OCHA                              UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
PCU                               Project Coordination Unit
PIM                               Project Implementation Manual
PMA                               Procurement Management Agent
PPF                               Project Preparation Facility
PSC                               Project Steering Committee
QAG                               Quality Assurance Group
QUAP                              Quick Action Programme
REBEP                             Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project
RREP                              Rapid Response Education Program
RUF                               Revolutionary United Front
SHARP                             Sierra Leone I{IV/AIDS Response Project
SLANGO                            Sierra Leone Association of Non-Government Organisations
SMC                               School Management Committee
SP                                Service Provider
SSS                               Senior Secondary School
TOR                               Terms of Reference
TSS                               Transitional Support Strategy
UNFPA                             United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNDP                              United Nations Development Programme
UJNHCR                            United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF                            United Nations Children's Fund
UPE                               Universal Primary Education
WAEC                              West Africa Examination Council
WFP                               World Food Programme
WMA                               Works Management Agents
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Mats Karlsson
Sector Manager:   Alexandre V. Abrantes
Task Manager:    Adriana Jaramillo






SIERRA LEONE
REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                     3
2. Key perfornance indicators                                                        3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               12
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    20
3. Benefits and target population                                                   20
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    21
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                         22
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       23
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              23
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 24
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         25
2. Financial                                                                        27
3. Technical                                                                        28
4. Institutional                                                                    30
5. Environmental                                                                    31
6. Social                                                                           34
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               35
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   36
2. Critical risks                                                                   36



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  37
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                         38
2. Other                                                                           38
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                       38
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                      38
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                       39
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                      65
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary        66
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  78
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                    82
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                  99
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                               101
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                              102
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                        104
Annex 11: Education Sector Analysis                                                  106
Annex 12: Policy Letter                                                              119
MAP(S)
EBRD31919



SIERRA LEONE
REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTH2
Date: January 28, 2003                            Team Leader: Adriana Jaramillo
Sector Manager: Alexandre V. Abrantes             Sector(s): Primary education (40%), Secondary education
Country Director: Mats Karlsson                   (40%), Central government administration (20%)
Project ID: P074320                                Theme(s): Education for all (P), Conflict prevention and
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  post-conflict reconstruction (P)
Project Financing Data
3 Loan     [ ] Credit   [X] Grant    [I Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 20.0
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local         Foreign    - . mTotal 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                              2.10           0.00          2.10
IDA                                                            19.50           0.50         20.00
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                       18.50           1.50         20.00
Total:                                                         40.10           2.00         42.10
Borrower/Recipient: THE GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
Responsible agency: THE M1MSTRY OF EDUCATION, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Address: Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Sierra Leone
Contact Person: Dr. Alpha Wurie, Minister of Education
Tel: 232- 22 240 881          Fax: 232-22-235 011            Email:
Other Agency(ies):
African Development Bank
Address: 01 B.P. 1387
Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire
Contact Person: Russell Cressman
Tel: (225) 20 20 59 96          Fax: (225) 20 20 57 10          Email: r.cressman@afdb.org
Address: The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Contact Person: Adriana Jaramillo, Task Manager
Tel: (202) 473-1084           Fax: (202) 473-8216           Email: Ajaramillo@worldbank.org



Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY}4.200^3ib t          2'd4W '^ 2b00 )   K2006      - 2007A 22008 
Annual      0.50       3.67       4.92       4.99      4.02        1.90
Cumulative     0.50       4.17       9.09      14.08      18.10      20.00
Project implementation period: April 2003- December 2007
Expected effectiveness date: 03/15/2003 Expected closing date: 06/30/2008
OCS PAD f 0rL fW  k  ZX                         -
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1.1   The objective of the Project is to assist the Government of Sierra Leone to re-establish education
services, and prepare the grounds for building up the education sector. Specifically, the Project will: (i)
assist participating schools to achieve a basic operational level (BOL); and (ii) build up the capacity of
the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (MEST) to plan and manage the delivery of
education services.
1.2   The rehabilitation of the school system will be accomplished by building upon the current
delivery of services, mainly by private sector providers (mnissions and NGOs), and based upon
participatory planning focused on underserved areas.  In order to monitor the school system's
development and evolution, the Fundamental Quality Level (FQL) criteria will be used. The FQL is a set
of agreed criteria that can evolve over time as minimal standards are met for the majority of schools. In
this project, the FQL will be limited to include readily measured inputs to achieve a Basic Operational
Level (BOL). This level is achieved in schools that have a physical structure safe for children and are
supplied with basic furniture, main textbooks, teaching and learning materials; there is an adequate
teacher to student ratio (e.g. one teacher per 40 students) and a school management committee (SMC) for
primary schools and a Board of Governors (BOG) for junior secondary schools (JSS).
1.3    This Project has been jointly prepared by IDA, the African Development Bank (AfDB) and UK
Department for International Development (DFID), and will be co-financed by IDA and AfDB. DFID's
contribution will be exclusively for governance related issues, and will be done in collaboration with the
current Public Sector Reform Project in preparation.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
2.1    As the key objective of the Project is the immediate rehabilitation and operationalization of
schools in Sierra Leone, the following key performance indicators will be monitored during project
implementation.
Rehabilitation of the School System
(i)    50% of primary and JSS schools in the target districts reach the BOL;
(ii)   70% completion rate in primary schools in target districts
(iii)  20% increase in girls' enrollment rate in primary schools in the target districts of northern and
eastern regions
(iv)   20% increase in enrollment in Junior Secondary Schooling (JSS) in the target districts
(v)    20% increase in passing rate of students taking the Basic Education Certificate Exammnation
(BECE)
Sector management
(i)    A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) exists within the MEST capable of conducting: the
procurement and financial management of the project; technical review of proposals to develop
Component I of the Project; and monitoring and supervision of all project activities;
(ii)   An enhanced capacity of the MEST to conduct: planning, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of
the provision of school services, and stakeholder coordination;
(iii)  Existence of an operational Education Management Information System (EMIS) fully integrated
-3 -



within the planning and decision-making process, and;
(iv)   Establishment and empowerment of 400 SMCs.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 23758-SLN Date of latest CAS discussion: March 26, 2002
1.1    Post-Independence Sierra Leone has had a troubled history characterized by civil war,
institutional instability and poor governance. After witnessing growth rates of nearly 4 percent per annum
during the first decade after independence in 1961, Sierra Leone saw its economic and social conditions
deteriorate in the 1970s and in the first half of the 1980s. By 1990, research has found that 82% of the
population lived below the poverty line. While many factors contributed to this decline, it was, in large
part, also attributable to inappropriate government policies and poor governance, fueled by the corrupting
influence of illicitly mined and traded diamonds, the increased politicization of the armed forces, the
diversion of profits and assets from state enterprises, the corrosive effect of political clientele and
patronage networks that fostered the misuse of public resources and a pervasive erosion of the public
sector.
1.2    Sierra Leone, however, has made remarkable progress in reestablishing peace in the past year,
while experiencing an incipient economic recovery with low inflation. Real GDP grew by 3.8% in 2000,
and 5.4% in 2001 and the Leone (local currency) depreciated in value by 30% in 2001, contributing to
realignment of domestic relative prices. In 2001, the Government performed well in managing public
finances. A Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for 2002-2003 was prepared by the Bank to present a
business plan that would support the implementation of the I-PRSP (Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper) presented by the Government in September 2001. The main objective of the TSS is to support
Sierra Leone's transition from post-conflict reconstruction to sustainable poverty reduction. The first
year of the TSS aims to undertake activities to support the establishment of core services in war-tom
areas, and the second year proposes aims to implement activities that will support the I-PRSP
development phase. The provision of education services in rural and underserved areas is considered a
priority in the TSS, a means to help mitigate the risk of renewed conflict, and also a way in which to lay
the foundation for sustained poverty reduction. This Project is one of the lending activities proposed in
the TSS for FY03.
1.3    The proposed project is well-aligned with the goals of the TSS, as the priority for the
rehabilitation of schools is given to war-tom and underserved areas. Moreover, one key objective of this
Project is to address the regional and gender disparities currently found in the provision of education
services in Sierra Leone. It has the potential for making an important contribution towards the
consolidation of peace, as reestablishing the school system plays a key role in returning to normalcy. In
addition, the introduction of peace education and peace-building teaching practices in the schools will
also contribute toward achieving this outcome. School enrollment of girls, in particular, in the northern
and the eastern regions will be emphasized. This Project will support the goals of the I-PRSP to support
good governance and to increase access to social services, whereby education is a priority.
1.4   In order to foster stronger donor coordination, the proposed project has been jointly prepared and
will receive parallel financing from  AfDB.  During its implementation, UNHCR  (UN  High
Commissioner for Refugees) and UNICEF (UN Children's Fund) will play key roles.
1.5   For FY03, Sierra Leone was allocated grants of SDR 30.2 million (US$40.0 million equivalent),
and this amount will be applied toward the financing of the Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project and
-4 -



the Health Sector Reconstruction and Development Project. These particular projects were selected for
grant financing because of (i) their importance in the Bank's program in Sierra Leone, (ii) these projects'
strong development impacts, and (iii) the Government's particular interest in grant financing of the health
and education sectors as support to these sectors would be strengthened by the grant financing.
Education Sector in the Sierra Leone TSS. The provision of basic education services in rural and
underserved areas is identified as a priority in the TSS, and a means to help mitigate the risk of renewed
conflict and lay foundation for sustained poverty reduction. Teachers, parents and students will be
engaged in a peace-promotional process (learn constructive conflict resolutions, promotion of tolerance
etc.)
Strong development impacts. This particular operation is very timely and responds to the most urgent
needs of children of school age as well as the general population during a critical period of time and will
contribute to the strengthening of the basic education sector. With HIV/AIDS being a growing threat,
education in HIV/AIDS Prevention and Life skills programs are essential for any development to be
sustainable. Gender being another important aspect, girls' schooling has been emphasised throughout the
project design.
Government preferences. The Goverment has expressed particular interest in grant financing for the
education and health sectors as they see it as a means to draw greater and broader support for these
programs.
In addition to these specific reasons for applying grant financing in this operation, the operation advances
the Bank's preference in the IDA 13 Grant Guidelines that "While grant use will be guided by PRSP and
CAS/TSS priorities, investments in education, health and clean water are generally expected to be an
important component of grant use."
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1    The war placed additional burdens on an already weak education sector. The current status of the
education sector in Sierra Leone is characterized by a multitude of post-conflict challenges: frequent
disruptions of children's schooling due to forced displacement, a devastated school infrastructure,
destruction of records, the displacement of teachers and the resulting difficulty in maintaining records
and paying salaries on time. In addition, there is a lack of basic furniture, teaching and learning
materials, overcrowding in many schools in safer areas, disorientation and psychological trauma
experienced by a large segment of the population, especially children, a weakened institutional capacity
of the MEST in managing the education system, a serious lack of information and data to plan the
provision of services, and poor coordination of the various initiatives among numerous actors working in
the education sector.
Main Sector Issues
2.2    Data presented in this section draw extensively from two sources: the National School Survey
Report (NSSR) conducted by Research Triangle Institute and Paul Musker and Associates in
collaboration with the Central Statistics Office (CSO), at the end of 2001 in the context of the
preparation of the project; and the Multiple Cluster Indicators Survey (MICS) undertaken in 2000. The
NSSR received support of a PHRD grant, and covered all existing institutions (Grades 1-9), taking into
account formal, non-formal, community-based and rapid education programs.
(a) Limited access to education and regional and gender disparities
- 5 -



2.3    The post-conflict context and its influence on education has contributed to low school enrollment
rates in Sierra Leone. In the early 1990s, the primary gross enrollment rate (GER) was estimated at about
51 % for primary and 17% for secondary education (on average for both cycles of studies). According to
the MICS 2000 survey, the GER was 63.3% and 9% for primary and secondary schooling, respectively
(16.2% in lower secondary and 1.9% in upper secondary).
2.4    The introduction of the universal free primary education policy in all state-owned and assisted
schools by the Government in 2001 resulted in a quick increase in school enrollment. As a result, the
NSSR found that the GER in Grade I had gone up from 74% in 1999/00 to 120% in 2000/01. The
2001/2002 Apparent Intake Rate of almost 120% suggests that Grade 1 has a large number of learners of
different ages. This represents a surge in the demand for schooling substantially higher than any increase
experienced before the war. The increased enrollment is concentrated at the entry point in the education
system. For example, the absolute number of students in Grade 6 was lower in 2001 than it had been ten
years earlier.
2.5    Despite all of these efforts and achievements, significant enrollment disparities remain in both
education cycles in terms of gender, geographic location/region and urban vs. rural areas. Gender
disparities are, however, less pronounced (the gender gap is estimated at 12 percentage points in primary
schooling) than urban-rural disparities (42 percentage points) and regions (70 percentage points
difference between the northern and western regions). Low enrollment in the northern region (in 2000,
GER was 42% in primary and 13% in secondary) can be, in large part, attributed to the fact that a larger
proportion of individuals belong to the lowest quintile (58%). Conversely, the western region accounts
for 65% of the individuals belonging to the richest quintile and its GER is the highest in the country (in
2000, GER was 112% in primary and 36% in secondary). If gender and geographic locations are
analyzed together, the GER varies from 34% for girls in the northern region to 119% for boys in the
urban and western areas.
2.6    The same types of disparities are reproduced, although to a lesser extent, in lower and upper
secondary levels. Nevertheless, the limited supply of seats in the next education sub-level drastically
limits children's access to JSS. As a result, 12 to 15 year olds have been a rich resource for recruiting
child soldiers. Finally, according to the MICS 2000, only a very small proportion of adolescents ages 15
to 20 have ever had access to schooling, while 68% of those in this age group have never even been to
school.
(b) Quality indicators
2.7    Approximately 70% of those children who enroll finish the primary cycle, which means that only
about 36% of children of primary school age complete primary school (since entry rate was estimated at
around 52%). The repetition rate is 13% for primary school, while it is 24% for Grade 1. As for retention
in primary school, estimates show that retention rates are significantly higher in urban than in rural
settings, but with little difference between boys and girls. Regional disparities are moderate in this
regard, even though the eastern region is characterized by lower figures than the three other regions. The
number of children completing primary school is steadily increasing. According to the West African
Examination Council (WAEC), the number of students from accessible areas sitting for the National
Primary School Examination (NPSE) has increased from 18,903 in 1999 to 21,212 in 2000, and to 26,368
in 2001. More than 90% of the sixth grade students pass the NPSE according to the MEST data from
1995-2000. However, again the limited capacity at the secondary level due to a lack of investment
programs does not allow for an adequate response to the increasing demand for basic education (Grades
- 6 -



7-9) in JSS that has developed over the last three years.
2.8   In looking at the number of years needed to acquire full literacy (an obvious objective of basic
education), it is only after completion of Grade 10 that almost all adults retain literacy in Sierra Leone.
These indicators, when compared to other countries in the region such as Togo and Niger where seven
years of schooling are needed to acquire full literacy, reveal additional challenges facing the education
system.
(c) Severely damaged school infrastructure
2.9    The war has taken its toll on the physical infrastructure of the country, including schools and
health care facilities. During the war, many of the institutions were being used to house displaced
populations. Moreover, school equipment, if it existed, was usually dilapidated. A rapid assessment
conducted in 1996 by the MEST revealed the extent of physical damage within the country, including
buildings burnt down, schools looted, sometimes with the sheet roofing, doors and windows having been
removed, the removal or destruction of furniture and equipment, and a loss of teaching materials.
Buildings that had not been directly damaged by vandalism had deteriorated due to a lack of maintenance
or abandonment due to frequent attacks or threats.
2.10   The NSSR confirmed the 1996 assessment and provided updated data on the level of damage of
existing school buildings. The NSSR identified 3,152 schools (some of them operating on a double-shift
capacity, and about 200-300 of these are satellite schools, with a total number of school buildings of
4,854). As much as 35% of classrooms need to be reconstructed, while 52% need to be either repaired or
rehabilitated. Only 13% are usable in their current condition. The extent of damage and deterioration of
school facilities is extensive and is estimated to exceed the resources currently available to the
Government of Sierra Leone and the international organizations currently active in the country.
2.11   Despite the war, 892 schools were newly established during the 1990s (28% of all the schools
identified in the NSSR). In the past two years alone, 182 schools have been constructed, of which 52 are
government-assisted, 111 are private (including schools supported by the missions), 13 are RUF
(Revolutionary United Front) (12 in the Kailahun district) and only three are government schools. The
newly established schools have been set up primarily in the most underserved parts of the country.
2.12   With regard to the access of schools to basic utilities, the NSSR reported that out of 3,032 school
sites, (this number excludes double-shift schools) 812 or 26% of schools indicated that their building was
wired for electricity (whether it is functional or not). Similarly, 436 or 14% of schools indicated that
their building had connections for pipe borne water supply (whether there is pipe borne water supply at
the school or not).
2.13   The only information available on equipment in classrooms pertains to simple furniture. The
NSSR reported that with a work force of 20,176 teachers, only one in four teachers has a table or chair.
There is one table for every ten pupils and a few children for every chair and stool (the availability of
blackboard and basic school supplies, such as chalk are equally abysmal).
2.14   Damage to teacher accommodations, which is a crucial incentive in attracting primarily
urban-based teachers into remote rural districts, was significant during the 1990s. The highest level of
damage to staff houses was reported in the eastern districts (the latter, moreover, also had a
disproportionate share of staff housing). Kailahun, for example, had 57 staff houses of which 48 are
totally destroyed. Of the 98 staff houses in Kono, only seven remain usable. Freetown and Bo reported
the largest number of undamaged staff housing.
-7 -



(d) Displaced populations, and its impact on teachers and students
2.15   Since 1991, more than 20,000 lives have been lost as a direct result of the conflict and related
insecurity has caused the internal displacement of an estimated 1.2 million people, approximately 25
percent of the population. Thousands of Sierra Leoneans, including children have had their limbs
amputated. UNHCR estimates (Provisional Statistics on Refugees and Others of Concern to UNHCR for
the Year 2000) that more than 500,000 people are either refugees, asylum-seekers, internally displaced
people (IDP) or return IDPs. While many have been repatriated or have returned by themselves prior to
the coup, it is estimated that about the same number still remain in Liberia and Guinea. According to
UNICEF estimates, there are approximately 5,000 children enrolled in Sierra Leone's various armed
groups, including the Kamajors. Another 10,000 children have been registered as being separated from
their families.
2.16   The massive number of displaced individuals has led to the current situation where most of the
trained teachers have either left the country, or have migrated to and stayed in Freetown. The number of
displaced teachers estimated in the NSSR accounted for 6% of the total teaching staff. The national
pupil-teacher ratio is 38 to 1 (44 to 1 for primary schooling and 25 to I for secondary schooling),
however, this ratio varies considerably with geographic location. For instance, the Kailahun district
reported the lowest pupil-teacher ratio at just 21:1, while Koinadugu's ratio is greater than 54:1. The
high pupil-teacher ratios in Koinadugu, Kambia and Port Loko are likely a reflection of the historical
inequalities of resources allocated to the northern region. Furthermore, important information on the
placement of teachers, as to whether they are on payroll or not, and as to whether or not they are actually
teaching (teachers' absenteeism was estimated at 19% with large geographic variation: 45% in Kalahuin
vs. less than 10% in Kambia and Port Loko), and information as to whether they are getting paid (or who
precisely is getting paid) is seriously lacking.
-8 -



(e) Inadequate educational inputs at the school level
2.17   Despite a first major attempt to distribute free primary pupil's books in four core subjects
(English-Language Arts, Mathematics, Integrated Science and Social Studies) in 2000, teaching-learning
materials remain in serious shortage. The textbook ratio in Grade I is close to one book for every five
children while the Government's formal policy mandates that there should be one set of books (i.e. four
core subjects) for every two children. The worst situation is seen with science textbooks, with only one
book for every eight children. The English-Language Arts textbook ratio is almost identical in purely
government schools and government-assisted schools with a ratio of one textbook to every four children
on average in primary school. Supplementary reading kits are also available, but their number is far too
limited with a book ratio of one text for every 21 children. Finally, even if textbooks are available they
are not always reaching the teachers and students, especially those outside Freetown.
2.18   The scarcity of learning material is even worse at the lower secondary level. For instance,
throughout the country, only 1,300 dictionaries were counted to be shared with 73,000 pupils. In effect,
pupils in JSS who do not have access to private sources of books are unlikely to use grammar, poetry,
prose, drama or dictionaries during their secondary school career.
2.19   The issue of attracting qualified teachers to schools in rural districts existed before the war. In
1996, the Government of Sierra Leone introduced the Remote Area Allowance as an incentive for
teachers to teach in less accessible, mostly rural locations. With the war, this has become an even greater
challenge. As mentioned previously, most trained teachers have either left the country or are currently
concentrated in urban areas, leaving most schools, particularly those in rural areas, without any trained
teachers. The NSSR reported that schools in those areas like Kenema are experiencing a severe shortage
of teachers. The situation is equally problematic in the districts of Kambia and Kono. In many cases,
schools that have begun to operate again, following the war, are staffed by unqualified teachers. The
problem is most acute in rural areas where many rural teachers do not have formal training appropriate
for the grade level they are teaching. This is, of course, also due in part to the limited capacity of teacher
training institutions and existing programs to meet the demand for trained teachers. Finally, the low level
of remuneration of teaching staff further limits the possibility of filling the shortage in supply of
qualified teachers. On a national scale, the proportion of teaching staff that is unqualified has remained
unchanged since the early 1990s. The NSSR revealed that about one-half of the teaching force is
unqualified, with only 6% of teachers holding a bachelors degree.
2.20   Women represent a minority of the teaching profession (4,806 women vs. 15,910 men). In each
qualification category, the percentage of men exceeds that of women. The largest number and percentage
of women employed are those who have either a higher teacher certification (885 or 24.8%) or a teacher
certification (2,004 or 34.7%). Women are underrepresented at both ends of the qualification scale.
2.21   The distribution of teachers between primary and secondary education is largely inequitable with
84% of the pupils enrolled and employing only 75% of all teachers. Similarly, while enrollment in
secondary education is currently equal to 8% of total education enrollment, 22% of all teachers are
working at the secondary level.
Qf) Lack of coordination among various actors in providing educational services
2.22   Various intemational donors, NGOs and CBOs (Community-Based Organizations) have been
active in the education sector in Sierra Leone for a long time, and they have been particularly active in
responding to the demand for education in the post-conflict context since 1999. Currently, amnong the
-9-



3,152 schools identified in the NSSR, 85% are government-assisted schools, 9% are purely government
schools and 5% are private schools. The government-assisted schools are either managed by missions
(e.g. Catholic, Methodist or Islamic), or supported by NGOs. The Catholic missions remain the largest
provider of educational services in Sierra Leone. Although historically the number of private schools
was very small, the number has grown significantly faster than government-assisted schools, since 1991.
2.23   Twenty-one percent of the schools included in the NSSR reported to receive some form of
support from NGOstUN agencies (although it is likely that the real amount was under-reported). The
largest NGOs (in terms of the number of schools that reported to have received the support) are Plan
International, World Food Program (WFP) and UNICEF. The six largest NGOs provide more than three
quarters of the total support provided.
2.24   With the objective of delivering primary education to out-of-school children who are hard to
reach, UNICEF and national and international NGOs (People's Educational Association, Plan
International, Norwegian Refugee Committee (NRC), among others) have carried out Non-Formal
Primary Education Programs (NFPE) since 1992. Usually, these are embodied in community-based
schools that aim to increase the participation of boys and girls in basic education and involve parents and
local communities in the management and monitoring of schools. The curriculum is similar to that used
by formal schools, although significant emphasis is placed on numeracy and literacy, as well as civic
education, with short period of schooling (3 hours/day), and a longer academic year. Similar initiatives
have been taken to assist the MEST in reestablishing education services in war-affected areas, and for
displaced students. Examples of such initiatives include the Rapid Response Education Program (RREP)
which facilitates the re-entry of war-affected children back into formal primary schooling and the
Complementary Rapid Education for Primary Schools (CREPS). These projects include the construction
and rehabilitation of schools and the introduction of an accelerated primary school curriculum for older
children and emergency education for displaced and refugee groups.
2.25   While all of these efforts are praiseworthy, there is a noticeable lack of coordination among
various actors in the education sector. It is difficult to acquire a global and comprehensive picture of the
activities of donors, NGOs and CBOs, with regard to the geographic coverage, target population, type of
activities, educational inputs, and sustainability of their programs. Activities have and continue to
proliferate without a clear and coherent vision.
(g) Weak Institutional Capacity of MEST
2.26   The current intemal organizational functions and structures of the MEST were configured prior
to the outbreak of the recent conflict. Due to the upheaval generated by the conflict, and as a result of the
passage of time, this division of labor is no longer efficient. In some cases, functions and organizational
structures are inconsistent. Administrative procedures in the MEST heavily depend on "manual" labor
and hand-written forms. The MEST's capacity is currently weak for both day-to-day management of the
system and for developing a longer-term vision and strategy for the education sector.
(h) Lack of reliable data and information system in the education sector
2.27   As mentioned previously, government-assisted schools (85% of all schools in Sierra Leone) are
managed by the missions and supported by NGOs which are responsible for education service delivery.
The capacity of the MEST to monitor performance of the service providers (SP) and schools and to
support them and to hold them accountable for the provision of quality services, especially in rural areas,
is limited, not only because of the existing poor communications infrastructure, but also because of lack
- 10 -



of personnel and resources in the MEST at both the central and district levels.
Strengths and Opportunities of the Sector
2.28   Although the education sector in Sierra Leone is faced with a number of difficult issues as
discussed above, there are nonetheless strengths and opportunities within the sector. First, historically
people in Sierra Leone have always valued education. The MICS 2000 Report shows that once families
have made the decision and have managed to put their children in school, 70% of these children will
reach Grade 6. Similarly, participation in the 6th grade completion exam is high, with the participation
of. approximately 90% of enrolled students. Second, the tradition of proprietors' involvement (e.g.
missions, private individuals, community organizations, NGOs, etc.) in providing education services,
managing the schools, and raising funds presents a unique opportunity for re-establishing the country's
education system.
2.29   The implementation of the National Commission for Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and
Reintegration (NCRRR) Strategy with the support of the Bank, has called upon international and national
NGOs to play an important role in re-establishing health centers and school facilities. This approach has
also been adopted by UNHCR, the EU, and UNICEF. As a result, key implementing partner institutions
have established a capacity to provide education services (including, among others, Plan International,
NRC, Concem, GTZ, and Catholic and Islamic missions). In the past two years, more than 180 schools
have been rehabilitated -with the participation of these institutions. This is a good foundation for
developing the school system and creating a solid partnership between the Government and the
stakeholders to build up the sector.  The existing collaboration between the MEST and private sector
implementing partners is an important strength in the current status of the sector.
Government Strategy
2.30   In 1996, the Government of Sierra Leone and the MEST completed the development of a
comprehensive and ambitious National Education Plan (1997-2000) and a related Quick Action Program
(QUAP) that received support from several international donors. The coup d'etat of May 1997 resulted in
the disruption of development plans due to the total curtailment of international financial and material
support. A revised QUAP for the education sector was completed in January 1998. The main objective
of this program has been to restore and revitalize the education system by rehabilitating and
reconstructing the school infrastructure, providing teaching and learning materials to schools in
war-affected areas, and ensuring timely payment of teachers salaries. More recently, the MEST, in close
collaboration with UN agencies (UNICEF, WFP, UNFPA and UNHCR) and over 20 international and
national NGOs, has been trying to address the growing demand for education in the transitional
environment/post-conflict situation. The collaboration has included a wide-range of activities: school
reconstruction and rehabilitation; provision of furniture, teaching-learning and sports-recreation
materials; teacher training; school-feeding programs; reorientation and accelerated learning programs for
over-age children; and a non-formal program for children lacking access to formal primary schools. To
increase access, the Government has abolished tuition fees for primary Grades 1-3, and in effect since
September 2001, primary Grades 4-6.
2.31   The MEST recognizes the importance of stakeholders, and education SPs including NGOs,
missions and cormnunity-based groups (CBOs). The reconstruction, rehabilitation and reintegration
efforts initiated by the different international organizations and coordinated by the former National
Commission for Reconstruction, Resettlement, and Rehabilitation (NCRRR) now NaCSA (National
Commission for Social Action) have been expanded to include the reconstruction of school
- 1 1 -



infrastructure. Other activities have been initiated by national and international NGOs, and as discussed
before, the MEST has started to coordinate the various initiatives and has proposed regional distribution
for interventions undertaken by various actors.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1    Rehabilitation of the school system. The Project focuses on the rehabilitation of the school
system (Grades 1-9). The BOL standards are used to monitor the quality of education delivered by the
SPs. In the present emergency context, focusing on providing BOL ensures that affordable solutions for
schooling are provided to a considerable number of children. Progress on rehabilitating the school
system to a BOL will evolve and as the majority of the schools in the country meet all of the operational
criteria, incremental targets and more process-related and outcome-related quality indicators can be
introduced. By adopting this approach, the Project will provide a solid basis for the education system to
evolve in the future. Furthermore, this strategy should enable the country to make rapid progress towards
the achievement of some of the more quantitative "Education for All" (EFA) goals (universal completion
of primary education by 2015 and elimination of the gender gap in primary and secondary education by
2005).
3.2    The BOL criteria proposed by the Project are the following:
a. Infrastructure and furniture:
i.     The school has a roof that allows all classrooms to function during heavy rain;
ii.    Every student has a chair and a desk; and
iii.   Teachers have furniture.
b. Students and learning materials:
iv.    There are between 30 and 45 students per classroom and per teacher;
v.     At least 45% of enrolled students are girls;
vi.    At least one complete set of English, Science, social science and mathematics textbook is
available for each student (distributed to the pupils); and
vii.   Students have notebooks and writing tools.
c. School staff and teaching material:
viii.  At least 50% of primary school teachers are trained and have teachers guides;
ix.    Schools with more than 150 students have a principal; and
x.     Every classroom is equipped with a basic set of teaching aids.
d. Participation:
ix.    The school has a school management committee (SMC) operational.
3.3    Support to private sector providers. As mentioned earlier, 85% of the schools today are
administered by the missions. In addition, more than 90% of the schools that have been rehabilitated
since 2000 have been completed in collaboration with both international and national NGOs. In order to
foster and expand the current provision of services, the project will build upon this existing capacity.
Thus, direct support to SPs was considered a much better option than trying to have an extremely weak
institution responsible for a centrally managed program. The Project will support the current school SPs
(missions, NGOs, etc.) in: (a) upgrading their current provision of services to meet the aforementioned
standards; and in (b) expanding the provision of services to underserved areas. Based on annual plans
prepared with the participation of missions, NGOs, district councils, chiefdom authorities, and CBOs,
and approved by the MEST and PSC, the Project will support the provision of education inputs necessary
- 12 -



to meet the BOL criteria. The MEST will be responsible for setting up and monitoring the BOL
standards.
3.4    Support to non-formal and emergency education programs. It is estimated that as many as
500,000 children from the ages of 10 to 14 have missed some years of schooling as a result of the war.
These children are mostly IDP or returned refugees and are now over age for their academic class level.
The CREPS Initiative was begun in 2000 to cater for the needs of these children, especially those who
are out of school and wish to make up for lost time. Building on lessons learned from the Accelerated
Learning Program (ALP) in Liberia, CREPS was jointly developed by the MEST and UNICEF. The
program compresses the normally six-year long primary school program into three years. The RREP
started in 2000 is a collaborative effort involving the MEST, NRC and UNICEF. The initiative was
designed to respond quickly to the educational needs of out-of-school IDP/returnee children to enable
them to enter or re-enter formal primary schools as soon as possible. The RREP curriculum concentrates
on developing numeracy and literacy skills while focusing on other topics including peace-building,
human rights and religious studies. The teachers are trained to cope with children who may still feel the
psychological effects of trauma and who may have leaming and/or behavioral difficulties. The Project
will support non-formal initiatives on an "as needed basis".
3.5    Capacity-building for planning and management of education services. The Project will
assist the MEST in building up its capacity to plan, manage and monitor the provision of services. In
particular, it will help develop its capacity to implement this Project and to coordinate and monitor the
provision of education services by private sector providers. The project will support District Education
Offices (DEO), by providing training to Quality Assurance Officers (former inspectors), and by
providing support to the SMC. Based on quarterly reports presented by the SMC, the MEST will
monitor compliance with the basic operational standards for the provision of services. In addition, in
order to cope with the limited number of qualified teachers, the Project will support in-service teacher
training. During project preparation and under a PHRD grant, a short in-service modular program was
designed, focusing on the development of pedagogical skills, classroom management, and use of teachers
guides. Furthermore, technical assistance will be provided to establish an EMIS, to keep statistics,
conduct annual school services and improve personnel management.
3.6    School-based peace-education and peace-building initiatives. Schools play an important role
in bringing some normalcy to the post-conflict environment, not only because they provide an important
service to the community, but also because they often become an important reference point for other
commnunity activities. In the interest of building a sense of community as well as a means of building
trust, the Project will support participatory school management by establishing an SMC. Building trust is
a key element in the promotion of peace-building environments, and this can be achieved by giving
communities the opportunity to participate in the school's decision-making process. Once communities
have a sense of ownership, the school is enabled to promote community projects that both can contribute
to the promotion of normalcy, as they can also contribute to an improvement in the pedagogic methods
used in the school. Membership in the SMC will be determined by election, and will have representation
from parents, and the community surrounding the school. In addition, the Project will promote
school-based initiatives that emphasize the importance of supporting an enlarged learning community and
promoting tolerance. There will also be support for curricular and extracurricular activities oriented
towards the promotion of human rights, civic education and tolerance. A component of the PHRD grant
was dedicated to prepare a peace education toolkit for teachers, articulated within the in-service training
program.
- 13-



3.7   IH[IV/AIDS Prevention and Life Skills. The HIV/AIDS epidemic is a serious and growing
threat to the education system in Sierra Leone. Taking a severe toll on the society, it also dampens the
demand for education as affected households have fewer resources to spend on education either because
of reduced income due to illness of income earners or diversion of scarce resources for health care.
Moreover, the epidemic is likely to significantly affect the supply of teachers and education personnel.
Currently, there are a number of health programs under implementation, including the Sierra Leone
HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project (SHARP), aimed at preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS. Although
SHARP provides funding for school-based HIV/AIDS prevention programs, this Project will support, on
a demand-driven basis, school initiatives to prevent and mitigate the spread of the disease.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component D: Emergency response to rehabilitate the provision of school services
(Total: US$ 36.0 million)
AfDB: US$ 18.0 million AfDB; I]DA: US$18.0 million
1.1   The objective of this component is to rehabilitate the school system by assisting the Government
in supporting the current SPs both to upgrade the current provision of services and to expand their
provision to underserved populations. By the end of the Project at least 50% of the schools in the target
districts should meet these standards.
1.2   Based on experience gained in the reconstruction efforts in the post-conflict context, in which
there has been excellent collaboration between the Government and NGOs to reestablish primary
schools, particularly building upon the model used in the Moyamba District, the Project will support the
further expansion of this experience. In Moyamba, one leading NGO, in partnership with the MEST, has
been in charge of the reconstruction and rehabilitation of schools, the provision of textbooks to all
enrolled children, training of teachers, training and support to SMCs and support to the DEO, and
establishing emergency education programs. As a result, a total of 294 schools, 180 government-assisted
and 114 non-government schools, in Moyamba currently have access to textbooks, trained teachers, and
an SMC. In order to expand this experience to all districts in the country, the Project will support the
schools via the existing education SPs. Based on a demand-driven basis, education SPs who are eligible
to provide a comprehensive package of services to the schools, will receive project funds, on a
contractual agreement with the PCU. The support to schools will be given in the form of school grants,
managed by the SPs and monitored by the MEST. A detailed description of the Grants Program follows.
1.3   The MEST will be responsible for defining standards for the provision of services, and for
monitoring the implementation and provision of services by private SPs. BOL standards will be used to
monitor the quality of services provided. The MEST through the DEOs and in particular through the
Inspectorate and Quality Assurance Group will be responsible for the supervision and monitoring. The
SMC will play an important role in monitoring compliance with standards at the school level.
The Grants Program
In order to provide direct support to schools, a School Grants Program via the Education SPs would be
established. The details for the implementation of this Program are found in the Partnership Operations
Manual, which is one chapter in the Project Irnplementation Manual (PIM). This document describes in
detail the procedures and guidelines for the preparation and submission of proposals for
projects/sub-projects, the review mechanisms and process for approval, procurement and financial
- 14 -



management, M&E, and auditing. This Manual was finalized by the Government and agreed with IDA
and the AfDB pnor to negotiations.
Definitions
For the purposes of this program education service providers are defined as (i) established and
functioning DEOs; (ii) missions; or (iii) NGOs or CBOs working in education.
Basic operational level (BOL) standards are defined as: the existence of: (i) a safe, furnished school
building; (ii) the presence of (at least) 50% of the teachers trained, with the recommended maximum
student-teacher ratio of 40 to 1; (iii) a core set of textbooks for every child; and (iv) a functioning school
support structure, in the form of an SMC.
Grants are defined as support to schools given by the SPs based on a contractual agreement with the
PCU, covering the following: reconstruction/rehabilitation, furniture, textbooks, teacher training, teacher
guides, peace education toolkits, training and cash support for small repairs for SMCs. Based on the
needs of the schools, Grants can be Full Grants covering all of the above, or Partial Grants, excluding
infrastructure (reconstruction and furniture costs).
Target areas
Resources will be notionally allocated to the districts on the basis of a formula that takes into account the
level of damage to the schooling infrastructure, and population. Notional allocations may be revised
from time to time based on project progress in the districts, or evidence of population movements. The
estimated allocations by district are as follows:
District       Damage scale  % total population       Damage x Pop.  Notional Allocation
Urban Freetown       1                  19.3                 19.3          1,882,002
Bonthe               l                   2.6                 2.6             253,534
Rural Freetown       1                  4.7                  4.7            515,718
Bo                   l                   6.9                 6.9             672,840
Kenema               3                  9.0                 27.0           2,962,633
Moyamba              3                  7.2                 21.6            2,396,683
Tonkolili            4                   5 9                23.6           2,589,561
Pujehun              4                   2.7                10.8           1,185,053
Bombali              4                   9 4                37.6            3,666,490
Kambia               S                  4.6                 23.0           2,523,725
Port Loko            S                  7.4                 37.0            3,957,641
Kono                 5                  9.5                 47.5            5,098,746
Koinadugu            7                  4.3                 30.1           3,302,788
Kailahun             7                   6.5                45.5           4,992,586
Total                                  100.0               337.2           36,000,000
Note:  Distncts in bold for IDA funding.
Plain text indicates AfDB funding.
Based on estimates of unit costs for rehabilitation and/or reconstruction of schools, textbooks, teacher
training, teachers guides, peace education toolkit and support to SMCs, the Project will provide Full
Grants to approximately 500 primary schools and 100 to JSS. In addition, an estimated 650 primary
schools and 95 JSS will receive Partial Grants every year.
- 15 -



Distribution of Grant Program Per District
in Primary and Junior Secondary Education
Notional   Estimated number of primary school  Estimated number of JSS grants per
allocation  grants per District during five years  District during five years of project
of project
Distncts        US$       Grant    Complete    Partial      Grant      Complete     Partial
Program    Grant       Grant      Program      Grant       Grant
_                        Proposal   Proposal                Proposal    Proposal
Urban Freetown     1,882,002     175         24         151          33           6          27
Bonthe I & 2        253,534       24          4         20            4            1          4
Rural Freetown      515,718       60          8         52            8            1          7
Bo                  672,840       62          8         54           12            2         10
Kenema            2,962,633      348         46        299           46            8         38
Moyamba           2,396,683      273         27        246           37            6         30
Tonkolili 1 & 2   2,589,561      304         42        262           40            7         33
Pujehun           1,185,053      139         19        120           18            3         15
Bornbali          3,666,490      340         47        293           64           11         53
Kambia            2,523,725      296         41        255           39            7         32
Port Loko I & 2   3,957,641      476         65        410           63           11         52
Kono              5,098,746      611         84        527           81           14         67
Koinadugu         3,302,788      387         54        334           51            9         42
Kailahun          4,992,586      586         81        505           78           13         64
Total  36,000,000    4,081        550       3,528         575          100        475
*Total indicative budget for school grants in pnrmary andjunior secondary
*Distncts in bold for IDA funding
*Distncts in plain text for AfDB funding
Relationship of missions, NGOs and CBOs to the DEO
The project preparation team recognized that some DEOs are stronger than others. Component 2
supports activities to foster capacity-building in the education system as a whole, but implementation of
the grant activities to be funded by Component I also offers opportunities for growth and development.
The Project, therefore, encourages missions, NGOs and CBOs to conduct needs assessments, develop
proposals, and implement projects in close collaboration with DEOs. DEOs will be the first point of
coordination of proposals to ensure that proposals do not overlap with respect to schools or activities to
be supported.
Basic eligibility criteria for receiving grants
SPs submitting proposals should demonstrate that the following are in place: (i) key personnel; (ii) the
capacity to procure goods and services according to project regulations; (iii) financial management and
reporting capacity; and (iv) the capacity to monitor and report on project activities. The MEST will carry
out an institutional capacity assessment of all SPs who are applying for grants. A detailed format for
assessing the institutional capacity of SPs is included in the partnership operations manual (PIM). SPs
that do not demonstrate the capacity to procure and manage large civil works contracts will be requested
to work with an approved works management agent in implementation. SPs are encouraged to submit
comprehensive proposals including a number of schools no fewer than 10. Small CBOs and NGOs can
partner with larger SPs to submit proposals.
Schools earnarked for the support of grant proposals should: (i) have proof of registration as a school
and/or authorization to operate from the MEST; (ii) a student enrollment of at least 50 students; (iii) and
plans to reconstruct and/or rehabilitate school should be in accordance with existing building codes and
adequate toilet and water facilities should be set up with a proper and functioning waste disposal
system.
- 16 -



Eligible expenditures
Grants will be made considering a criteria of eligible expenditures. Items on this list include:
*      Construction, renovation, or repair of school facilities
*      Classroom furniture
*      Textbooks
*      Teaching and leaming materials
*      Teacher and headmaster training
*      Teacher resettlement/reintegration
*      School-based peace education and peace building initiatives
*      H1V/AIDS prevention and life skills program
*     Non-formal or alternative education programs for overage children
*      Training for school management committees or Parent Teachers Associations (PTA)
*      Management support and overhead, not to exceed 10% of the total value of the proposal
Proposal review
The review process will be facilitated by the work of a technical committee and the PSC. The Technical
Committee would consist of a Director, a civil engineer, a partnership coordinator and other civil society
representatives with knowledge of project review, and would be established within the MEST. The
Technical Committee would be responsible for undertaking both a field review and a desk review. The
field review has for an objective to ascertain, among other things, community knowledge of sub-projects,
to sensitize the community on their role and implementation and management of the project and
post-construction activities, and to verify proposed estimates. The verification would involve visits to
the specific site (particularly in the case of rehabilitation) and assessing actual damages. This will serve
as a benchmark for approval of budget and bid evaluation. The desk review would be directed by the
Director, while the engineer and the Partnerships coordinator will lead the field review and appraisal.
The technical committee will then submit its review of each proposal to the PSC. The PSC would be
made up of members of the Government and members of civil society, with at least 40% of its members
from civil society. The PSC will meet on, at least, a quarterly basis to review proposals. Proposal review
will ensure: (i) compliance with basic eligibility criteria (outlined above); (ii) that the value of the
proposal does not exceed a notional allocation for each district; (iii) that estimated unit costs for eligible
expenditures are reasonable and in accordance with norms agreed with IDA; (iv) that the implementation
plan is realistic and achievable within two years; and (v) there is no duplicate support for schools.
Grants management
Contracts will be awarded by the MEST/PCU to the SPs for the implementation of proposals approved
by the PSC. A model contract is provided in the partnership operations manual (PIM), specifying
activities to be carried out, expected outputs, reporting obligations, and financial and procurement
arrangements.
SPs will be responsible for the implementation of sub-projects. They will be advanced 25% of the value
of the approved proposal, or an amount otherwise agreed on the basis of cash flow requirements for
implementing the grant activities. Replenishment will be made upon presentation of statements of
accounts, with required documentation (requests for replenishment should not be smaller than 10% of the
value of the entire proposal). Grant recipients will be required to submit progress reports to the MEST
on a quarterly basis, detailing progress toward agreed goals and highlighting implementation issues
which need attention. All grants will be audited on an annual basis. Compliance with BOL as addressed
in SMC reports will be monitored.
- 17 -



Project Component 2
Enhancing the Institutional Capacity of the MEST (Total US$ 4.0 million)
AfDB: US$ 2.0 million; IDA US$ 2.0 million
Because the MEST's capacity has been seriously weakened by ten years of civil conflict, the primary
objective of this component is to build suitable institutional capacity within the MEST, and DEOs
(among SPs) to effectively assist in the swift implementation of the School Grant Program to provide
assistance to a considerable number of schools to meet the BOL standard. This component will achieve
its objectives through three sub-components: (i) the establishment of a well-functioning PCU; (ii) the
strengthening of the MEST's capacity in planning and management; and by (iii) support provided to
education service delivery through capacity-building at the local level through district inspectors (Quality
Assurance Officers), training of teachers and SMCs.
2.1 Establishment of a PCU (Total US$ 0.9 million)
AfDB: US$ 0.45 million; IDA US$ 0.45 million
A small PCU comprising a Project Director, National Technical Coordinator, Partnership Coordinator,
Capacity Building Coordinator and support staff will be established within the MEST. The PCU will
have the overall responsibility of planning, managing and coordinating activities to be funded by the
Project and of providing overall technical support as required for the functioning of the MEST. One of
the main responsibilities of the PCU will be to undertake at least quarterly technical reviews of grant
proposals using data from EMIS (i.e. annual school surveys) in order to present them to the PSC for a
decision.
2.2 Strengthening of the MEST's capacity in planning and management (Total: US$ 1.5 million)
AfDB: US$ 0.75 million; IDA: US$ 0.75 million
The main objective of this sub-component is to build sufficient capacity within a selected number of key
central administrative units to ensure that the MEST is able to carry out basic management and planning
functions and to gradually support the expansion of Sierra Leone's education system.
The main targets of this capacity-building are:
(1)   the establishment of a procurement unit backed up by a firm for all project funds and for the
provision of on-demand procurement support from service providers implementing school grants;
(2)    the recruitment of an architect to reinforce the civil work unit in order to provide technical
coordination services for the civil work component of the school grant program;
(3)    the establishment of a project financial system with the appointment of a financial specialist
backed up by a firm and the subsequent recruitment of a long term technical assistant (i.e.: financial
controller) with a mission to overhaul the Finance Directorate and to improve the MEST's financial
operations, including the creation of the capacity to undertake internal audit upon request;
(4)    the establishment of an EMIS by the Planning Directorate, integrating data from four annual
school surveys to be funded by the Project with the appointment of an EMIS specialist as well as the
provision of short-term technical assistants to analyze EMIS data and to produce prospective work on the
education sector for planning and policy making purposes. This will be used to monitor project
implementation progress; and finally,
- 18-



(5)    the provision of technical assistance to benefit the Personnel Directorate, including the
appointment of a personnel management specialist with a mission to elaborate and to implement a plan to
streamline and render more efficient the recruitment, deployment and payment system of teaching staff
Specialists appointed to the MEST and short technical assistance will aim to transfer knowledge and
technical skills as required for long-tern sustainability as it will also have for a primary objective to put
in place an improved management system for each selected area. Staff in each of these units will have
access to targeted professional development training programs to ensure that they build lasting capacity.
Finally, the Project will finance the provision of office equipment, fumiture and transportation as
required for the satisfactory functioning of these units.
2.3 Supporting and monitoring education service delivery (Total: US$ 1.6 million)
AfDB: US$ 0.8 million; IDA US$ 0.8 million
This last sub-component will aim at building capacity at the local level to support and monitor the school
services. First, it will support the training of an estimated 80 teacher trainers who will serve as a
resource for the provision of in-service training for unqualified teachers targeted through the School
Grant Program. The content and modules for this training have been developed by the MEST in
collaboration with the teachers colleges, with the support of a PHRD grant. The main objective of this
training is to further the development of pedagogical skills, classroom management skills, and the use of
teachers guides. It is expected that some inspectors at the district level will integrate into this group of 80
teacher trainers.
Second, all district inspectors/quality assurance officers, will receive training specifically on the SMC
manual (i.e. rules, roles and responsibilities of SMC) and how to mobilize and support communities to
establish an SMC. SMCs will have a key role in monitoring the provision of education services. Quality
assurance officers will then conduct a series of capacity-building activities in targeted schools covered by
the School Grants Program in order to inform and mobilize the communities, supporting the
establishment of an SMC if required; and providing training to the SMC in monitoring compliance with
BOL and the provision of grant deliverables by SPs. DEOs will receive essential equipment, office
furniture and the means of transportation necessary to ensure that they could fulfill these
capacity-building responsibilities.
t.,',i'      *S:        >       ,'z'7,''z ^' C*e''  ,--w -indicative-  of B:o-  i
*,t.21, - ,       ,l, -> 9' i  (USSM)...  r.Total-  ---'(USSM)': - financing
1. Emergency response to rehabilitate the school system  35.77  85.0     17.91      89.6
Partnership Program, Grants Component
2. Capacity-Building of the MEST                      3.78       9.0      1.64       8.2
3. Borrower Contribution                              2.10       5.0      0.00       0.0
4. PPF                                                0.45       1.1      0.45       2.3
Total Project Costs  42.10    100.0     20.00     100.0
Total Financing Required   42.10     100.0     20.00     100.0
- 19 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
2.1    The proposed project, in and of itself, is not an educational reform project per se, but by assisting
the Government in reestablishing education services in a post-conflict environment, it provides an
important opportunity to support sector reforns. There are several policy and institutional reforms set out
by the Government in the I-PRSP that will be embraced by the Project. These include:
(a) Reactivating local government and decentralizing service provision. This Project provides direct
support to private SPs, as opposed to using a centrally managed approach. It seeks to build the capacity
and role of the MEST as a regulatory and monitoring agency, while providing support to the provision of
services by other agencies. Component 2, capacity-building considers reorganization and support to key
functions of the MEST. Activities supported under this component will support the establishment of
DEOs that will have the responsibility of monitoring school performance, facilitating teacher training and
school-based management, a significant step in the process of decentralization.
(b) Effective monitoring and evaluation by establishing simple monitoring indicators for the
delivery of education services. Project design includes the definition of BOL Standards for the
provision of education services, as well as selected monitoring indicators for each component. In
addition, the NSSR collected baseline data for main education sector inputs. The SMCs will have an
important role in monitoring the BOL. The Project will maintain and update the database as part of
performance monitoring.
(c) Supporting good governance and transparency. The Project will support the partnership between
the MEST and education stakeholders to deliver education services in an efficient way. This will call for
better defining the roles and responsibilities of the MEST vis-a-vis the private sector providers. Civil
society stakeholders have had a significant role in project preparation and will be directly implicated in
project implementation and monitoring. The establishment of a partnership program to rehabilitate the
school system, and the inclusion of civil society representatives in the PSC will provide transparency- in
decision-making. In addition, the Project will support the establishment of SMCs, to which the school
administrations will be accountable.
3. Benefits and target population:
3.1    Children: The principal beneficiaries of the proposed project are the children of Sierra Leone.
700,000 children currently enrolled in basic education (Grades 1-9) will benefit from the provision of
teaching and learning materials, and from a much improved school environment. Those who complete
primary level education will have an increased opportunity to continue into junior secondary education
versus becoming a child worker or a problem youth.
3.2    Teachers: 10,000 teachers will benefit from in-service teacher training programs including
skills development in peace-building. In addition, 800 teachers will benefit from a reallocation package,
to enable them to resettle in their home villages.
3.3    Families and communities: Education was the number two (only after security) priority of
citizens who participated in focus groups during the preparation of the I-PRSP. It is essential that a sense
of normalcy return to communities and population groups who were affected by the conflict, in particular
those individuals in rural areas. Under the Project, approximately 800 SMCs will be established and
mobilized to pro actively participate in the management of their schools at the community level.
3.4    Civil society: The Project will encourage participation of all segments of civil society in
- 20 -



planning and implementation. SMCs will be in place, where parents will have the opportunity to
participate in school management and decision-making. Support for the decentralization of the MEST
will encourage the participation of a greater number of stakeholder groups. Both of these project
activities will empower civil society stakeholders in the education sector, which can, moreover,
contribute to strengthening their role in the governance of other sectors.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1    The Project will be implemented over a five-year period. The MEST will be responsible for the
overall project implementation under the guidance and support of the PSC. Sixty percent of the PSC's
members will be from the Government and 40% from civil society. Based on annual plans and proposals
submitted by local SPs, the PSC will approve the quantity and scope of activities to receive support under
the Project. Eligible SPs would submit annual plans/proposals to bring their schools up to the BOL
standards to the PSC. The PSC would review proposals to ensure:
a.     Consistency between proposed expenditures and need (e.g. verification of training programs,
materials and infrastructure needs commensurate with number of teachers and students, and an
inventory of physical plant);
b.    Implementation capacity of the SP;
c.     The budget is reasonable for activities proposed; and
d.     The SP has a good track record in resource management.
4.2    The PSC will also be responsible for promoting the coordination of education sector initiatives
supported by various agencies, overseeing operational and implementation procedures, and monitoring
and evaluating project outcomes.
4.3    The PSC will be a partnership between the public and non-public sectors (60% government, 40%
non-government membership) including the MEST, representatives of key international donors,
stakeholders, NGOs, missions and the private sector. The Minister of Education will be the chair of the
PSC, with the vice-chairpersonship rotating every year. The PSC will not be an implementing agency,
but will be supported by a PCU, which will be responsible for the coordination and management of the
project implementation.
4.4    A PCU has been established consisting of a 'core' team that includes a Project Director, a
technical coordinator and a partnership program coordinator (with necessary support staff) to provide
program leadership in project planning, implementation coordination, M&E and partnership program
implementation under the supervision of a PSC.  Other specialists including an educational
planner/EMIS specialist and a civil/architect engineer will be hired and associated with their counterparts
in various divisions of the MEST. These positions will be supported under the Project for the project
duration. Such an arrangement will ensure that there is clear professional leadership for project
coordination so that project implementation can proceed without major delays.
4.5    A Procurement Unit, backed up by an independent audit firm, has been established in the MEST,
staffed with necessary professional and support staff provided by the MEST. The Project will provide
procurement management specialists [as required] by the independent audit firm which will also play a
backstopping role. The procurement management specialists will be responsible for procurement under
the Project, as well as for building the capacity of the Procurement Unit. It is expected that this Unit will
bring the required efficiency and accountability in public procurement, into the MEST. A financial
management specialist will also be provided by a professional firm which will also play a backstopping
role. The MEST will provide the necessary support staff to these professionals (including at least two
- 21 -



accounting staff). The objective is to build a satisfactory level of capacity within the MEST in financial
and procurement management.
4.6    A detailed Project Implementation Manual (PIM) has been prepared. This manual includes: (i)
The Partnership Program Manual to implement the School Grants Program, including details pertaining
to the financial and procurement management; (ii) Project Implementation Plans; and (iii) A Project
Operations Manual (Annex 13 of PIM). Current drafts will be finalized before project negotiations.
These manuals provide detailed, specific and clear guidelines to SPs on the process for the submission
and the review of proposals, the format and guidelines for submitting proposals, a menu of eligible
expenditures, the standards expected in the provision of services, eligibility criteria for SPs, a sample
contract to be signed between the PCU and SP, M&E of the delivery of services, including the use of
financial resources, and auditing.
4.7    Various units of the MEST responsible for undertaking the monitoring and supervision of
activities supported under the Project will be assisted to develop overall capacity in project planning and
implementation management. Key units in the MEST to receive this support are the following: Planning
Division, Human Resource Management, Financial Management, a Quality Assurance and Inspection
Unit.
4.8    M&E functions will largely depend on a national EMIS in the MEST. The Project will assist in
developing an efficient and practical EMIS. A reliable baseline survey was conducted during project
preparation under the PHRD grant.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
1.1   A number of alternatives as to how to address the issues of access, quality, equity and
management were taken into consideration. One alternative was a sector-wide approach program. This
alternative was not considered given the need to respond quickly to the emergency situation in the
country. Priority was given to rehabilitating of the basic school system in a rapid and efficient way.
1.2   Two altematives were considered for undertaking the rehabilitation of school infrastructure. One
alternative considered was focusing project efforts on the construction of new schools. Another
alternative was to focus on the rehabilitation of existing schools and the construction of new schools.
Both of these alternatives were rejected given that the main objective of the Project is to provide
schooling to the largest number of children possible in the country. These objectives would not be
achieved by concentrating all efforts on rehabilitating and constructing infrastructure. The option of
allocating 50% of existing resources to construction gave flexibility in providing enough education inputs
into the schools such as textbooks and teaching and leaming materials, teachers guides, teacher training
and support to the SMC.
1.3    Different alternatives were considered for the implementation of the school rehabilitation/
reconstruction project. A fully demand-driven approach managed by a Social Fund was rejected. Even
though the NCRRR, now the NaCSA, has been successfully implemented, it was agreed that the MEST
should be the agency directly responsible for project implementation. Having the project fully managed
by NaCSA would create problems due to the lack of project ownership by the sector. In addition, the
need to create capacity within the MEST, called for setting up a Project Management Unit that would be
directly involved in strengthening the MEST's capacity to manage and implement the Project.
- 22 -



1.4   A fully centralized top-down approach was also rejected as it would eliminate local ownership,
and would discourage on-going community and NGO initiatives focusing on rehabilitating schools. The
alternative chosen combines a demand-driven approach with a governing body (PSC) that approves
proposals. The notional allocation per district guarantees that the most disadvantaged and damaged areas
will be served.
1.5   Based on the findings of the institutional capacity assessment study financed under the PHRD
grant, two alternatives were considered for implementation arrangements: (a) the establishment of a
full-fledged PCU staffed with necessary professionals in the MEST; and (b) the setting up of a team of
professionals (technical assistants) who would then be co-located with their respective counterpart in
MEST divisions. Neither of these options was considered feasible for this Project. However, the project
preparation team finds a hybrid of the two options more realistic and suitable to the existing level of
competency in the MEST as described in implementation arrangements (pp. 20-21).
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
2.1   IDA's assistance within the education sector in Sierra Leone began in 1969, with the First
Education Project, completed in 1976, 18 months after its initial closing date. The second education
project was approved in 1975 and closed in 1982, over two years after its original closing date. The Third
Education Project was effective in 1983, and closed in 1995. The Fourth Education Project began
preparation in 1996 and the project was never approved.
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                    Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Education Project                Cr. 0170-SL
Outcome: Satisfactory
Second Education Project         Cr. 0573-SL
Outcome: Satisfactory
Third Education Project          Cr. 1353-SL                     U            U
Outcome: Unsatisfactory
Other development agencies
UNICEF                           NFPE, RREP, CREP
AfDB                             Education II Project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
3.1    Education sector projects in Sierra Leone have been characterized by their slow implementation.
A critical issue reported in the first two education projects was the existence of an independent Project
Implementation Unit outside of the MEST's control. This resulted in lack of ownership, and made
difficult the adoption of key policies.  Lessons learned suggest that in order to increase project
ownership, create sustainability, facilitate implementation, and improve M&E, project management
should be undertaken by the direct beneficiary. The current project will have the MEST as its
implementation agency, and a PCU has been established in the Ministry to technically support the
MEST's efforts.
3.2    To overcome procurement and financial management problems encountered in the past, the
- 23 -



project design  has given priority to the creation of an overseeing body, the PSC, with equal
representation from the private and public sector in order to improve transparency, govemance, and to
create a direct link between project actions and education policies.
3.3    Simple project design and flexibility have demonstrated to be elements of success in project
implementation in post-conflict environments. In East Timor, focusing on bringing the majority of
schools to a BOL has been successful. To meet the needs within the emergency situation in Sierra
Leone, the design of the Project is very simple with only two main components, with flexibility allowed
in project implementation.
3.4    Providing support to existing agencies involved in the provision of services, and to the schools
has proven to be successful in Cambodia. The School Grants Program of this Project has been designed
taking into consideration lessons leamed form the School Grants Program in the Cambodia Education
Quality Improvement Project (Cr. 3283-KH).
3.5    Creating a sense of community and reestablishing ownership and trust are important elements
influencing the success of education projects in post-conflict environments. In El Salvador, the EDUCO
program, where schools are directly managed by the community has been successful. Building on this
experience, this Project will emphasize the establishment of and support to the SMCs. This will be a first
step in the direction of decentralization and school-based management.
4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership
4.1    The Government of Sierra Leone upholds that the education sector deserves priority
consideration in order for the country to achieve its development goals, and has clearly asked for the
Bank's assistance in achieving this objective. The Government has identified education as a key sector to
be improved, that will re-establish normalcy in the country and will further strengthen the peace-building
process. The MEST is fully supportive of the approach sought in this Project, and has initiated the
process for establishing a PCU. A project preparation team formed with key MEST staff, and in
collaboration with representation of all sector stakeholders, has been working on preparing the different
components of the Project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
5.1    The value-added of Bank (IDA) support for this Project far exceeds the financial resources the
Project provides. The Bank's experience in scaling-up the provision of education services to meet the
needs of underserved children in a short period of time is relevant and lessons learned in India and
Bangladesh have been taken into account. In addition, the Bank's involvement in education sector
projects in post-conflict situations in Africa and in East Asia (Vietnam, Cambodia and East Timor) have
been taken as opportunities to improve the performance of the education sector as a whole. Lessons
learned from these on-going projects have been considered in project design. Moreover, the Bank's role
in donor coordination and in supporting a participatory approach in disarmament, reconstruction and
rehabilitation efforts in Sierra Leone positions this Project to continue to develop and to foster the
existing participatory and multi-donor coordination in order to build up the education sector. The Bank
has played a leading role in the preparation of the Project, and in leveraging resources from AfDB, DFID,
UNICEF and UNHCR, to support the education sector in Sierra Leone.
-24-



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
o Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
1.1   The last decade was marked by a number of serious efforts to implement reforms aimed at
stabilizing the economy and laying the foundation for sustainable economic growth. These efforts were
interrupted by recurrent outbreaks of violence and political instability. Real GDP grew by an estimated
3.8% in 2000 after declining by an average of about 8% during the previous three years.
1.2   The Government has developed a medium-term macroeconomic framework in collaboration with
the World Bank and the IMF and it will implement its poverty reduction strategy within that framework.
The main objectives are to achieve a GDP growth rate of 5% in 2001 and of 6% in 2002-04 and to limit
inflation to 8% by 2001 and to 5% by 2002-04. While a critical examination of assumptions behind the
policies of stable economic growth is beyond the scope of this review, it should be emphasized that the
program for the education sector has assumed an annual growth rate of 6% (consistent with World
Bank/IMF projections) over the plan period (2001/02-2004/05) and an inflation rate of 5%.
1.3   Minerals and agricultural products are Sierra Leone's main traditional exports; as such, both
commodities are highly susceptible to fluctuations in international prices. While mineral exports were an
important source of growth and contributed significantly to government revenues and foreign exchange
reserves prior to the civil war, they have been virtually nonexistent as exports since the rebel attacks on
the rutile and bauxite mines in 1995. Revenues from exports of minerals (rutile and bauxite) represented
about 90% of the official exports of goods in the early 1990s. Given the huge financial obligations faced
during the post-conflict period, and the slow recovery of exports, Sierra Leone's reliance on donor
support has been large.
1.4   The Project is designed to help the country first to re-establish the education services, in
particular at ,the primary level, and to a lesser extent at the lower secondary level, and second, to prepare
the ground for building up the sector. The Project concerns primarily four aspects: coverage, equity,
basic quality and management.
1.5   Coverage: We do not have specific data on the returns to primary education in Sierra Leone, but
we know in general that what holds for comparable countries holds also for Sierra Leone. The country is
characterized by a dual economy with a limited-size modem sector, while most of employment is, and
will remain for the next two decades, in the traditional (agricultural and informal) sector. For that sector,
we know that the enhancement of labor productivity depends crucially on human capital and that primary
education is the most cost-effective investment to this end; given the diversity and simplicity of the tasks
to be performed. Beyond labor productivity, the estimates of growth models made in the Africa context
(Mingat and Tan, 1997) show that primary schooling is the socially most profitable investment in
countries that are at the same level of development of Sierra Leone.
1.6   The coverage of primary education in the country has been estimated for the year 2000. The
GER has been estimated at about 51% while only 38% of an age group currently reach primary Grade 6.
These figures demonstrate the need to invest in primary education since it has been shown that it was
necessary to validate at least six years of primary education at young ages to help retain literacy in adult
life.
- 25 -



1.7    Equity: Equity concerns are central in this Project, and they are addressed in two respects:
i.     The figures given above on the coverage of education are averages for the country. Although
regional disparities existed before the war, the war has exacerbated them significantly. In 2000, while
only 38% of an age group completes at least six years of education at the primary level, this is the case
for 70% in the West province but for merely 25% in the North and in the East. The figures in these twcG
provinces indicate that about 15% of rural girls actually completes the minimum of six years of
schooling, that is necessary for literacy retention in adult life. The Project targets the rehabilitation of
schools while working with NGOs, missions and communities to address this imbalance.
ii.    A second dimension of equity addressed by the Project consists of providing education and
training opportunities for adolescents ages 14 to 20 that have been prevented from going to school when
they were of an age to do so, due to the war (about two-thirds of the individuals in this age-group are in
these circumstances). There is a need to somehow provide a second chance to this young population in
need, both for reasons of restoring equity and efficiency.
1.8   It should be stressed that the Project, with its focus on both the coverage of primary schooling
and on equity, is very much in line with the objectives highlighted in the I-PRSP, to: (i) foster economic
growth; while (ii) providing assistance to those who are currently excluded to develop the capacity to
benefit from new opportunities.
1.9   Investing in the quality of services offered: Student learning is the real outcome of education
services and it has been determined (among other things on the basis of research on growth models) that
being in school has little impact if students do not acquire the expected learning through the curriculum
content. Education policies usually, therefore, must address the issue of ensuring a favorable learning
environment. However, it is clear that there can be only a loose relationship between the amount of
resources mobilized at the school level and what a student will learn. In particular, a high level of
expenditure per pupil may amount to wasting public resources both because the learning acquired is
characterized by a pattern of diminishing returns and because the transformation of resources into
effective student learning may not be maximized. The thrust of the project design, therefore, is to
provide only the basic kit of school inputs that research has proved to be most cost-efficient (including
textbooks, in-service teacher training, a class size of 40 pupils and simple school buildings). Moreover,
the Project promotes the appropriation of the school by communities through the introduction of school
committees because, it has been shown (in Mali, Senegal, and Niger) that the control of schools by
parents was a positive factor in increasing student learning (both through closer supervision of teachers
and a greater involvement of parents in their child's education); the resources needed to establish these
school committees makes it a very cost-efficient instrument.
1.10   Improving the management of the system: The bulk of sector work on Education conducted
over the last three years at the Bank stresses the important role of management as a key ingredient of an
efficient and equitable education system. In the case of Sierra Leone, two important aspects are
considered in the Project:
i.     The first pertains to the mode of delivery of education with two different objectives. One is to
help the system to recover as rapidly as possible with efficiency and equity; the second is to help the
Government of Sierra Leone to gain control of the education system and its development and evolution in
the medium-term. Traditionally in Sierra Leone, churches and communities have been providers of
education (this tendency has further increased during times of war). Additionally, experience in
countries including Togo or Tanzania, shows that the management of publicly financed schools by the
- 26 -



private sector may be positive both from an economical and a pedagogical standpoint. The Project has
willingly supported the Government's aim to adopt this approach of having mostly publicly financed
schools run by missions and private organizations. However, the Bank has stressed the need for the
MEST to maintain control over the system through a variety of mechanisms, from regulations and
financing schemes to the allocation of teachers and textbooks/pedagogical materials. This Project
supports this common understanding and the mechanisms necessary to put the arrangements in place.
ii.    The second consists of equipping the MEST with a functional educational statistics system (both
at the central and decentralized levels) with the aim to improve its capacity to use this information in
managing and monitoring the system.
1.11  Finally, it should be stressed that the content, activities and objectives of the project are very
much in line with the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) that aim at helping countries to achieve
coverage and completion of at least six years of primary schooling for all (including girls and the poor)
with a reasonable level of learning for the students.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
2.1    The Project is part of the development program of education for the country. It is geared, in large
part, towards building an overall system of schooling that would produce the adequate human capital for
the economic and social development of the country while being, at the same time, financially
sustainable. Currently, the country is characterized both by a relatively low fiscal pressure (government
revenues amount to only 11% of GDP) and a relatively large proportion of that revenue (31%) devoted to
education. The relatively limited fiscal capacity of the country is a result of the war and is expected, over
time, to return to normal with a figure around 15%. The portion of recurrent spending devoted to
education is high and reveals the priority that is being placed on the education sector by the country.
However, it is not certain that the current high level of commitment will remain when alternative and
additional claims on public resources become more pressing.
2.2   It is important, at this point, to determine the extent to which the program of the Government
(universal primary education, progressively universal lower secondary education and the production of
graduates in vocational and higher education to meet, in quantity and quality, the demands of the
economy as it develops) is likely to be financially sustainable. At this point, however, such a
determination cannot be made. However, estimates made in the context of the costing of UPE (Universal
Primary Education) in all IDA countries points to the likelihood that the program will be financially
sustainable. Assuming that: (i) government revenues will, over time, represent 15% of GDP; (ii) 28% of
recurrent spending will be allocated to the education sector; (iii) 50% of recurrent expenditure for the
sector are allocated to pnmary education (a figure that is believed to leave enough resources for
reasonable policies in post-primary education); and (iv) some reasonably easy-to-implement policies
concerning the operation of the system (in particular, maintaining the level of teachers' salaries at about
3.5 times the per capita GDP of the country), the simulation model indicates that UPE (what the Project
is currently supporting) is sustainable in terms of recurrent expenditure. There is, however, a gap in total
financing of the education sector as there is virtually nothing remaining for investment costs. In this
scenario, almost the total capital cost would have to be borne by external sources.
- 27 -



Fiscal Impact:
N/A
3. Technical:
3.1    Sector program vs. a focused intervention
The overwhelming needs of the education sector posed a number of challenges in designing the project.
The significant needs exist at all levels of the education system, however, the decision to focus the
intervention on the rehabilitation of the basic school system was taken based on the view that
rehabilitating school services will play an important role in restoring normalcy to the country. Providing
a school to a village plays an important role in helping displaced individuals to get settled. A sector
program was deemed an unrealistic aim, as the complexity of problems combined with the weak
institutional capacity would make it extremely difficult to manage. The adoption of the BOL as a
standard on which to build the school system was adopted as a strategy to meet two objectives, to: (a)
respond to the emergency of the situation; and to (b) provide the elements necessary to build the system.
The first one is a short-term goal, while the second one is a long-term one.
3.2    Management and Implementation
The extremely weak capacity of the MEST, combined with the lack of good governance called for the
development of a partnership between civil society and the Government. The option of having the
Project managed by a Social Fund was rejected as the need to strengthen capacity within the sector is a
key intervention for building the system. This is important for this Project as well as for future
interventions. In addition, the lack of ownership of the Project among education sector officials would
have been an obstacle for the successful implementation of the Project. The bulk of resources of the
Project will go directly to schools. In order to achieve this goal, a School Grant Program was designed,
encouraging education SPs (NGOs, missions and CBOs) to submit proposals to bring schools up to the
BOL Standards. Proposals are planned and agreed at the district level, with the participation of the
relevant actors by district, and submitted for approval at the central level. By ensuring that 40% of the
PSC's members are non-public officials transparency in the decision-making process will be better
secured.
3.3    Capacity-Building
The MEST is weak in organizational structures and procedures. A full reorganization of the institution
will require both time and a strong political will to see it through. To initiate this process the Project will
support the capacity-building of key units in the MEST at the central and district levels. The
capacity-building program aims at providing the elements that will add transparency to the
decision-making process, introducing efficiency in the use of financial and human resources, and
providing support in the delivery of school services. Decentralization and support to the district level
officials will be a key element in building a support system for the schools. The "recycling" of education
inspectors into quality assurance officers will also be an important element in building this support
system. Emphasis will be placed on providing adequate support to the SMCs.
3.4   Infrastructure needs were assessed during project preparation. There are currently 4,854 school
buildings (18,926 classrooms). The predominant type of school building is the multipurpose unit (31%),
the two-classroom unit accounts for 19% of all buildings and the three classroom unit accounts for 18%
of the total buildings. The remaining are either one or 4-6 classroom units. The NSSR (2001) revealed
that 35% of classrooms need to be reconstructed, and 52% need repairs or to be rehabilitated. Only 13%
are usable in their current condition. Twenty six percent of the schools have been wired for electricity,
- 28 -



and 14% have connections for pipe borne water supply. During project preparation it was estimated that
a maximum of 200 schools could be rehabilitated/reconstructed per year. Before project effectiveness,
an engineering assessment of the first year reconstruction/rehabilitation plan will be conducted.
Attention will be given to the availability of local materials, engineering capacity, and local goods and
SPs. The capacity of SPs to undertake civil works will be assessed through the proposal review process.
It is expected that SPs will be able to manage their own civil works. However, it is expected for those
SPs with weak capacity, the MEST will provide this support through the Works Management Agency
(WMA) and NaCSA.
Number of School Infrastructure Units by Type
Deacriptlon                          Total Building.
One-classroom unit                       488
Two-classroom unit                       965
Three-classroom unit                     874
Four-classroom unit                      521
Five-classroom unit                      234
Six-classroom unit                       254
Multi-purpose unit                       1518
Library                                  80
Laboratory                               1 39
Two-bedroom staff house                  267
Three-bedroom staffhouse                 328
Administrative block                     126
Workahop unit                            108
Kitchen                                  583
Wash house                                63
VIP latrine                              5 07
Traditional pit                          1666
WC                                       483
Other                                    429
3.5     Furniture: Currently, there is a severe lack of furniture in classrooms. There is only one pupil
table per ten children, and only one in four teachers has a table or a chair. Availability of local supply as
well as the capacity to provide furniture for schools in order to be operational in the first stage of the
Project is critical.
3.6     Textbooks and distribution of teaching and learning materials: The MEST has an approved
list of textbooks for core subjects. Textbook procurement and distribution have been problematic in the
past in Sierra Leone. In order to guarantee distribution of textbooks and following the experience of the
Moyamba District, SPs will be responsible for the procurement and distribution of textbooks, teaching
and learning materials.
- 29 -



4. lnstitutional:
4.1    Recognizing that Sierra Leone has been through a tumultuous decade of civil conflict and poor
govemance, and has a track record of corruption. The institutional arrangements are of significant
concem. The weak capacity of the MEST and the Government to implement this Project are elements
signifying risk. In the past, Catholic, Presbyterian, and Islamic missions, and more recently in the
post-conflict environment, NGOs, have been important contributors in sustaining a fundamental level of
education service in all of the provinces except for those in the Westem Area. Govermment outreach in
these areas has been limited due to a lack of access to many areas and budget constraints. When
reestablishing an education system such as the one in Sierra Leone there are several institutional aspects
that require special attention. The MEST's capacity to manage the sector is weak, and the Project will
place responsibility for project preparation and implementation under the MEST, which has been assisted
by a PHRD grant for project preparation. The rehabilitation of the school system could be done through
the support of the current SPs which include NGOs, missions, and CBOs. Equally important, the
establishment of the PSC, with equal participation of non-public and public sector, chaired by the
Minister of Education, has been proposed to oversee the preparation and implementation of the Project.
The PCU at the MEST will be the unit responsible for project implementation, and will report to and
consult with the PSC on policy issues and on the approval of annual plans to support SPs. During project
preparation, the establishment of a partnership between service providers, education stakeholders and the
MEST has been set in order to manage the School Grants Program. An institutional assessment focusing
particular attention on areas including project management, financial, procurement and accounting, as
well as donor and inter-agency coordination has been done.   This assessment has provided
recommendations that have been taken into consideration in the formulation of the institutional
arrangements proposed for the Project, as well as for activities to be supported by the Project under
Component 2, Capacity-Building. Assistance from other donors such as DFID has been leveraged to help
build the MEST's capacity. In addition, UNHCR will provide financial support to SPs that will need to
build their capacity in order to meet the demands and requirements of the School Grants Program.
4.1 Executing agencies:
4.1.1  The main agency responsible for project implementation will be the MEST. The Project will
resource current SPs to deliver the school services, and assist the MEST in managing, monitoring and
regulating the provision of services. Based on annual plans submitted by local SPs including NGOs,
missions, district offices and councils, chiefdoms, the PSC will approve the quantity and scope of
activities to be funded by the Project. SPs will be awarded contracts based on their proven capacity for
sound financial management, and their capacity to deliver medium- and large-scale schooling services.
4.1.2  Considering the lack of capacity in the MEST to manage large-scale civil works as expected in
the Project, and when SPs do not have the capacity to manage civil works, contracting, disbursements,
technical and financial monitoring, the MEST will consider subcontracting other services from NaCSA.
Management of construction of new schools and major rehabilitations would be delegated to two
architectural consulting firms and NaCSA (referred to as Works Management Agents, WMA). However,
where an SP is assessed to have the capacity to play the role of a WMA, the SP would be allowed to do
so. A Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the MEST and NaCSA to carry this function has
been prepared.
4.1.3  The PSC is a high-level advisory body, chaired by the Minister of Education and has been
established. Members of the PSC are MEST (chair), the Director General, Administration, Development
Secretary of MODEP, Financial Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Chairman of the Parliamentary
Committee on Basic Education, Secretary of the National Commission on Basic Education, Director,
National Council for Technical, Vocational and other Awards (NCTVA), five nongovernmental partners
in education namely SLANGO, UNICEF, UNHCR, representative of Muslim Bodies-Inter Religious
- 30 -



Council and a representative of the Christian Bodies-Inter Religious Council.
4.1.4  Taking into account the weak capacity of the MEST, the Project will provide technical assistance
to strengthen key units in the MEST. In particular, it will be provided in the Planning Division, the
Human Resources Management, the financial and procurement management, the Quality Assurance
Group (Inspectorate) and utilized to support the coordination between the private and nongovernmental
education SPs.
4.2 Project management:
4.2.1  Central level management will be done by the PCU. The PCU will have a Project Director, a
National Technical Coordinator and a partnership program coordinator as well as financial and
procurement specialists. The PCU will be responsible for coordinating all project activities. This
function will bring the PCU into operational contact with specific units in the MEST responsible for the
monitoring of service delivery. Given that the bulk of educational inputs: provision of teaching and
learning materials, teacher training, provision of school furniture, will be delivered by the current service
providers, the MEST will have a key role in monitoring and regulating the provision of services. The
PCU Director will report to the PSC who will be the body responsible for approving the annual plans. In
order to monitor the quality of the provision of services, the MEST will obtain information through the
SMCs. The BOL indicators will be used to monitor quality of the provision of services.
4.3 Procurement issues:
4.3.1  The MEST has increased its procurement and financial management capacity by establishing a
Procurement Unit backed up by an independent accounting firm that will be responsible for procurement
and financial management. Since the Project includes mainly school construction/rehabilitation and
distribution of classroom facilities/materials activities through the school grants, the majority of the
procurement activities would be related to civil works and goods carried out under sub-projects.The
Project will finance the procurement management unit within the MEST.
4.4 Financial management issues:
4.4.1  All project finances would be centrally managed by the financial management unit within the
PCU. A financial management specialist, under contract with a financial and procurement agent,
with proper support staff from the MEST will be financed under the Project. The Project will face
financial management challenges in two areas (a) the management of funds to support SPs; and (b) the
management of financial matters related to the establishment and running of the SMCs.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
5.1.1  The purpose of the Environmental Assessment (EA) was to assess the potential environmental
and social impacts of the project components, particularly with regard to construction activities (i.e.
school buildings and teacher's accommodations) and the redeployment of teachers. The Project will
cover priority districts. The EA was conducted in Kailahun, Kono and Kambia districts as well as the
Western Area. These three districts were severely affected by the civil conflict which ravaged the
country for the past ten years. The conflict ravaged throughout the war in the Kailahun and Kono
districts, whilst Kambia severely suffered during the last two years. However, the level of destruction of
public facilities and the environment in the three districts are high according to various reports, personal
communications and site visits. The Western Area was chosen because it clearly contrasts with the other
three districts in terms of physical damage to educational infrastructures, environmental degradation, and
institutional arrangements for impact management. In the EA, each area covered by the Project activities
is described according to its biophysical characteristics, its social structure, its administration, its
- 31 -



socioeconomic activities and its educational and other infrastructure facilities. Potential impacts such as
pollution, the creation of over pits and the production of construction waste materials were identified.
The construction of classrooms would require the clearing of land cover and landscaping. The
establishment of foundations for buildings would require earth removal and soil modification. The
environment issues relating to landscaping are related to land cover change, dust pollution and noise
amongst others. Open pits are created during landscaping for the laying of building foundations,
construction of toilets and water delivery and storage facilities. If not well protected, these pits pose a
serious health hazard, can cause serious injuries and can also inadvertently serve as rubbish dumps as
well as mosquito breeding sites if left to collect water. The construction of buildings for schools and
support structures produces waste materials which have to be safely disposed of at identified dump sites.
These materials may include scrap metals, nails, pieces of wood, broken glass, cement blocks, etc. if not
properly disposed of, they may cause personal injury. The decorative phase may produce wastes such as
paint, oil, etc. which might find their way into nearby streams polluting them. The project is likely to
cause pollution of the environment in terms of noise associated with construction work. Pollution can
also be caused as a result of the abandoning and poor disposal of paint materials. Dust associated with
earth preparation for the foundation of a building can impair the quality of air around construction sites.
(See EA report in the project documents.)
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
5.1.2  Strategic Mitigation Measures
The MEST should assume a more definitive and strategic role in responding to the needs of the local
population. This requires ensuring that the schools which are community demand-driven place the
communities themselves in a better position socially, if not economically as well, through the
reconstruction and rehabilitation activities. The EA proposes mitigation measures, monitoring indicators
and environmental guidelines for school construction. They are listed below.
Landscaping Measures
Restoration of construction sites will be carried out by planting trees as an erosion and water control
measure. A tree nursery site will be maintained and replanting schemes put in place in deforested areas.
Local NGO's will be involved together with future pupils in the schools in tree planting exercises. The
planted trees will assist in water management by reducing land surface evaporation rates and by
regulating infiltration rate during the rainy season by reducing surface runoff through interception.
Creation of Open Pits
Pits created as a result of excavation for construction and other purposes can be refilled after construction
or building. Local materials can be used for this purpose.
Production of Construction Waste Materials
A clean up program will have to be put in place. This should involve removing and clearing from the
area dangerous materials like nails, pieces of timber, broken blocks, scattered sand and gravel, pieces of
iron, mortar mixing, waste water, saw dust, etc., particularly where recycling or reuse is possible (e.g.
saw dust could be used as manure in the experimental school gardens.)
Deforestation and Loss of Biodiversity
Most of the country's forests and biodiversity have been affected by the war. Tree planting and
reforestation activities would be embarked upon through community groups, environmental management
NGOs and Area Development Associations (ADAs) and school nature/environmental clubs.
- 32 -



Pollution
This is more relevant at the construction stage of the Project and is expected to be minimized once the
schools become fully operational. The noise from school children at play can be controlled through
disciplinary codes of conduct within the school system. Post-construction/building materials should be
cleared and properly disposed of. Residual paint could be used in arts and crafts classes. Dust pollution
should be reduced following the post-construction era, through the paving of alleys, covering of feeder
roads with tar, and the planting of carpet grass on playing fields.
Preservation of Monuments and Sites of Historic Values
Efforts shall be made to preserve monuments and sites of historic value in the vicinity of the proposed
project sites. This, however, is currently not a pressing issue as these structures are absent at the
proposed sites.
Identification of Applicable and Effective Measures to Prevent Accidents Involving Hazardous
Substances
At the construction phase of the project(s), protective head and body gear will be worn to protect workers
from contact with hazardous materials or substances in accordance with building safety regulations.
Providing information and training of workers will also be undertaken to further ensure safety.
Cost estimate for mitigating measures
Open pits                                      US$ 10,000 for cover up activities
Clean up of waste disposal facilities          US$ 15,000
Reforestation and conservation practices       US$ 10,000
Pollution                                      US$ 10,000
Setting up of nature banks, parks and reservations  US$ 20,000
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: December 10, 2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
5.4.1   Consultations with affected groups, local communities and NGO's were undertaken during the
preparation of the EA. Consultations with communities in the Kailahun, Kono and Kambia districts were
facilitated by the regional environmental officers based in Kenema in the east and Port Loko in the north,
respectively. Structured questionnaires were used to obtain information for the EA, as described above.
During the team's visits to Kailahun, Kono, Kambia and sites in the Western Area, meetings were held
with the paramount chiefs of the main chiefdoms to assess the level of destruction of educational
facilities in their respective areas.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The EA defines a number of environmental and social monitoring indicators, which include among
others, the number of standpipes provided for water supply, the number of pit or flush latrines, and the
types of plants lost as a result of the construction activities. In order to meet the environmental and
social monitoring plans in relation to the above indicators, the project has defined a set of management
goals and objectives, in particular water quality testing, air quality, soil and land quality as well as
environmental guidelines for school construction, which are part of the guidelines for civil works
included in the PIM.
- 33 -



6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
6.1.1  The social assessment was undertaken by the MEST as part of the preparation of this Project,
and received technical assistance under a PHRD grant. The survey was conducted with the participation
of teachers, parents, head teachers, SMCs, religious leaders, and community leaders. The principle
findings of the survey were the following:
i.     There is a high demand for schooling in Sierra Leone. The main reason for leaving
school in the eastern region was the war, and a lack of financial resources in the west.
Given that the peace process has evolved considerably and that the Government is now
paying for school fees, school enrollment has surged in the past two years;
ii.    Gender disparities are an element of concern, in particular in rural areas of the northern
and eastern regions;
iii.   Teachers were among the most unsatisfied population with the current teaching
conditions, the delay in payment and the low level of salaries;
iv.    Community participation in school activities is low; and
v.     Conflict resolution and peace-building initiatives were considered mostly as activities to
be undertaken by community and religious leaders.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
6.2.1  Both the preparation and implementation of the project have been highly participatory. The
participation of NGOs, missions, and community-based groups in the delivery of education services in
Sierra Leone has been remarkable. The proposed project will build on the many currently on-going
initiatives. Project preparation activities was undertaken in a highly participatory way. Through the
PHRD, the Partnership Program for education was developed, with participation of the missions, NGOs,
Sierra Leone Teachers Union, Teacher Colleges and donors, UN agencies (including UNAMSIL,
UNICEF, UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), NRC, Plan International,
NaCSA (formerly NCRRR). Equally, the school survey and the social assessment were conducted with
participation of the above organizations, under the lead of the CSO. Based on the partnership established
to mobilize the participation of all stakeholders, project planning was done in consultation with and with
the active participation of all those involved in the delivery of education services.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
6.3.1  The rehabilitation of the school system will require the collaboration and participation of all
those involved in the delivery of education services. The proposed project will support the current
education SPs, including the missions, NGOs, CBOs, and private organizations currently involved in the
delivery of schooling services. The Project will allocate funds based on participatory plans presented by
the local level authorities, district councils, missions, NGOs, and CBOs. In addition, the project will
support the establishment of SMCs, where school personnel, parents and the comnmunity will be
represented. The SMC will play an important role in monitoring the quality of the services provided.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
6.4.1  The Project will address the issue of equity both in terms of economic and gender disparities.
Priority districts will be defined in terms of low-income levels, and strategies to increase girl's
enrollment will be supported. The Project will contribute to improving teachers' conditions by building
accommodation facilities for teachers in severely deprived areas, providing in-service training, teaching
- 34 -



guides, and an incentive package for those who want to be relocated. In addition, the Project will
promote community participation by encouraging the establishment of SMCs. Furthermore, the PSC will
be established with equal representation of Government and civil society to ensure that the decisions
related to the allocation of project funds are undertaken with transparency. Schools will not be
rehabilitated/reconstructed if people lose their land and/or source(s) of income. Access to sources of
income will have to be resettled.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
6.5.1  Several key performance indicators are related to monitoring the Project's social outcomes.
Enrollment rates by gender will be monitored on annual basis. Other key indicators to be monitored on an
annual basis are:
i.     Number of teachers participating in in-service training;
ii.    Number of teachers to be reallocated;
iii.   Number of schools to be built with teaching accommodations; and
iv.    Number of SMCs to be empowered by year.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect?
.-lL     I;           i    i$    -     F;-.         -t-P ---' I  riggered;-
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)         * Yes (9 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 U Yes w No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                  (9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                    (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                ( Yes w No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  U Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        ( ) Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            ( Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       ( Yes w No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet (ISDS) is attached and has been cleared by the Environmentally and
Socially Sustainable Development (ESSD) team.
An EA report was completed and has been cleared by ESSD.
- 35 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
1.1   The sustainability of the Project will depend on the extent to which the Government succeeds in
implementing, within a sound macro-economic framework, its overall recovery and reform program. It
will also depend on the progress made in sustaining the recently restored political stability and the access
to services throughout Sierra Leone. At this point in time, a number of district headquarters have limited
electricity, telephone and other means of communication, transportation, and banking facilities. In other
words, until macroeconomic development takes off, in Sierra Leone, more than in many other developing
countries, the success made in the education sector will continue to depend on donor inputs. The
rehabilitation of the school system is a priority for the Government of Sierra Leone and key for achieving
its development goals. Donors are providing budgetary support to pay recurrent expenditures, including
teachers' salaries, and school fees, and it is expected more that 25% of HIPC resources will be allocated
to the education sector. This contingency will assist the Government in supporting the education sector
while its recovery and reform programs are being fully implemented.
1.2   The sustainability of education sector reforms that will be made under this Project, such as
increased decentralization and movement towards a school-based management system with increased
accountability, will depend on how normalcy is re-established at the district and chiefdom levels. The
Project will focus on achieving this in the districts where the strategy for increased governance under
DFID support is in place.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
One risk of this Project is that the continuous support of MEST decision makers and key operational staff
be maintained throughout the life of the project.
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The PCU of the MEST has the full          N        A PSC has been established under the Project
cooperation of MEST departments and                 with the participation of the MEST and other
other development partners (including              stakeholders to ensure better coordination and
NGOs and donors).                                   collaboration among various MEST
departments, NGOs, UNICEF, UNHCR and
donor agencies.
The MEST is implementing a transparent    S         PSC would carry out periodic review of the
selection criteria for proposals from SPs          identified sites as per the selection criteria.
to be awarded contracts under the School            Bank supervision missions will conduct its
Grants Program.                                     evaluations with the PSC and the PCU.
SPs are fully commnitted to and involved  M         The MEST is effectively coordinating its
to deliver education services under the             rehabilitation activities with its development
BOL standards premise.                              partners.
Other stakeholders maintain their         M         The MEST maintains the PSC's membership
commitment to provide support to the                with representation of 60% government, 40%
education sector.                                   non-government and donor community.
From Components to Outputs
Schools in need of rehabilitation are     M         SPs are identifying sites in collaboration with
- 36 -



identified on the basis of a priority               other development partners, incl. CBOs and
criteria.                                           based on the baseline survey. The PCU
reviews proposal in a transparent way, and the
PSC meets on a quarterly basis to approve
proposals.
Technical staff to supervise              M         The MOU signed with NaCSA will be
construction/rehabilitation are available           implemented satisfactorily for supervision of
at the local levels.                                civil works.
The procurement process is undertaken      S        The PCU is fully involved in the planning
on time in order to synchronize with                process and is actively participating in the PSC
construction and rehabilitation.                    review meetings to provide progress updates.
The procurement cell of the PCU is
professionally staffed and is carrying out its
responsibilities on time.
The Provision of school services,          S        The MEST is actively developing partnership
including the reallocation of teachers,             with NGOs, missions and others to undertake
in-service teacher training, provision of           various responsibilities related to the provision
teaching and learning materials, and                of school services according to BOL agreed
furniture is done in collaboration with the         criteria.
current service providers including
missions, NGOs and UN agencies.                     The PCU is efficiently coordinating the
rehabilitation, procurement and distribution
activities among the MEST, donors and the
implementing partners.
Data collection activities are carried out  M       A properly staffed and equipped EMIS is
in a timely manner and are utilized for             established in the MEST.
planning and management purposes.
The sector performance indicators are defined
and included in annual data collection activities
on a gradual basis over time.
The planning department of the MEST is
restructured on the basis of key planning
operations and staff qualifications.
Overall Risk Rating                        5
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
3.1    The Project supports the provision of services by private SPs such as, Catholic, Protestant and
Islamic religious groups, NGOs and CBOs. Even though there is a long tradition in Sierra Leone by
these SPs, and currently 85% of government-assisted schools are administered by the missions, it can be
argued that the provision of education services be made solely by the State. It is clear that the proposed
approach has an advantage for the MEST so that it serves as a regulatory and policy making body, which
is more consistent with modern trends, and more efficient in meeting the education needs of the
population.
- 37 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
Effectiveness Condition
a. The borrower has selected an external auditor.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
M-. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Adriana Jaramillo               [Alexandre V. Abrantes            Mats Karlsson
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                   Counby Director
38



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                .      Critical AIsumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To rehabilitate the education  70% completion rate for  Annual sector performance  Political and social stability
sector in order to support the  primary education in target  report by the MEST.  remains in order to carry out
provision of education     districts and a 20% increase in                      the program. Continuous
services as a key instrument in enrollment on average for girls                  dedication and support of
establishing normalcy in the  in primary schools in the                          MEST decision makers and
country.                  target districts of Northem                            key operational personnel .
and Eastem regions is
achieved by end of Project.
20% increase in enrollment in
JSS is achieved by the end of
Project
20% increase in passing rate
of students taking the BECE in
the target districts in 2007 as
compared to 2001
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To assist primary and JSS to  At least 50% of primary  Annual school surveys and  Schools achieving basic
achieve BOL standards,     schools in targeted districts  EMIS reports.          operational standards will be
defined in terms of trained  meet BOL standards by the                           more effective in providing
teachers and headmasters,  end of Project.                                       quality education to sustain
basic textbooks, learning                                                        demand for schooling,
materials, furniture and a safe  At least 60% of JSS in  Progress reports by service  improve retention and produce
and healthy school         targeted districts meet BOL  providers under the      better educational outcomes,
environment.               standards by the end of    partnership program.       thus contributing to the
Project.                                              rehabilitation of Sierra
Mid-term evaluation report  Leone's education system.
and Project Implementation
Completion Report (ICR).
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Component I:
Support to SPs in order to  Grant proposals implemented  Contract agreement between  The PCU of the MEST is
rehabilitate the provision of  in all education districts  SPs and the MEST including  getting full cooperation from
education services (School  including:               list of deliverable tangible  MEST's directorates and the
Grant Program).           (a) 500 primary school      outputs.                   PSC in analyzing and
complete grants by the end of                         approving SP's grant
Project.                                              proposals.
(b) Average of 650 primary
school partial grants per year.  SPs monthly implementation
- 39 -



(c) 100 junior secondary   reports.
school complete grants by
EOP.
(d) Average of 95 JSS partial
grants per year.
(e) 90% of unqualified
teachers (on a total of
estimated 10,000 unqualified
teachers Grade I to 9) receive
in-service basic training.
Annual basic education sector The MEST is implementing a
performance report by the  transparent selection criteria of
MEST, and by the PSC.      site selection and construction
and rehabilitation activities.
Annual school facilities   SPs are fully committed and
surveys and EMIS reports   involved to deliver education
starting year 2003.        services under the BOL
standards premise.
Quarterly consolidated     Other stakeholders mamtain
progress report prepared by  their commitment to support
the PCU and Planning       the education sector.
Directorate.
Supervision reports.       Capacity to implement the
BOL standards is adequate at
Field supervision and      the national, regional, district
evaluation reports         and school levels.
Component H:
Enhanced institutional     The PCU is able to undertake  PSC quarterly reports on grant The MEST is committed to
capacity of the MEST.      at least quarterly technical  proposal vetted by the  work in partnershlp with the
reviews of grant proposals in  PCU/technical team.    other stakeholders (including
Capacity is developed at the  order to present them to the                       NGOs).
MEST central and district  PSC for decision. Complete  Quarterly consolidated
levels (inspectorates) to  process for each cycle of  progress report prepared by
adequately support the     school grant presentation,  the PCU and Planning
MEST's operations and the  technical review and approval Directorate.
implementation of the grant  lasts no more than 4 months.
program as well as to monitor
education services delivered
by SPs
A Procurement unit able to  Procurement audit reports  Procurement unit, Finance
effectively undertake      from external firm.        Directorate, Planning
procurement planning,                                 Directorate, Personnel
processing and supervision, as                        Directorate staffed with
well as to provide support in                         trained personnel and
procurement to SPs upon                               adequately equipped.
request.
A Civil Works unit headed by Civil works supervision  Proper incentives to mobilize
an architect able to carry out  reports.              communities in participating in
technical coordination of the                         the SMC.
civil works component of the
-40 -



grant program and oversight
WMA
A Finance Directorate able to  Adequate procedures in
manage all project funds and  compliance with IDA financial
treasury and to comply with  management and accounting
accounting, budgeting and  rules.
financial reporting
requirements.
Internal Audit unit able to  Report on budget execution per
eview all MEST operations  quarter and annual budget
forecast based on assessment of
needs and pnorities.
EMIS established with data on EMIS network infrastructure
four school annual surveys and set up with procedures in place
gradually integrating and  for users.
linking data on finance (i.e.
udget execution); personnel  Four annual school surveys
(payroll and deployment    published.
ecords); and indicators on
OL standards.
EMIS data are effectively used EMIS reports.
for planning and prospective
work on the education sector.
Improved personnel         Audit report on personnel
management system with    management contracted out.
effective procedures enforced
for recruitment, deployment  Records on MEST's staff on
and payment of MEST's staff the payroll.
and teachers on the payroll.
80 trainers trained in first year List of trainers published and
of Project to serve as trainers  evaluation report on training
for in-service teacher training  received.
activities to be implemented via
school grants.
600 SMCs established with  Reports on school tnspections
prior mobilization from the  from Inspectorate.
community and with capacity
built (training when required) to
monitor school grant
deliverables.
-41 -



.   '-':  -';  1 - Key Performance  | Data Collectiori Strategy, 
Hierarchy of Objectives J        Indicators ..                                  Critcal,Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Support to service              US$ 36M          Detailed quarterly reports on  Schools in need of
providers to rehabilitate the                       the procurement and       rehabilitation are identified
provision of education                              distribution status of     based on a priority critena.
services (School Grants                             classroom facilities
Program).
Annual EMIS survey report  The PSC is functioning
successfully.
Detailed quarterly report on  SPs have: (i) key personnel;
civil works activities by the  (ii) capacity to procure goods
Civil Works unit of the   and services according to
planning division.        project regulations; (iii)
financial management and
reporting capacity; and (iv)
capacity to monitor and report
on project activities.
Monthly financial statements  The MEST implements a
and quarterly progress reports monutoring and supervision
from the service providers.  plan.
Field supervision.
2. Enhanced institutional          US$ 4.OM                                    Capacity-building coordinator
capacity of the MEST.                                                          recruited.
2.1 Establishment of a PCU.       US$ 0.9M                                     Key high quality personnel
recruited. Procedures in
place.
2.2 Strengthening of              US$ 1 .5M          Quarterly project         Information and reporting
MEST's planning and                                 implementation progress    needs clearly defined.
management capacity.                                 report for the first year and the Staff trained in collecting and
annual EMIS reports from end recording information for
2002.                     EMIS.
Hardware and software
purchased and EMIS set up
accordingly.
2.3 Support to education          US $ 1.6M                                    Inspectors duly trained to
service delivery.                                                              provide pedagogical support
and monitor implementation of
the education curriculum.
Public information campaign
to mobilize communities in
setting up SMC.
SMC members trained
-42 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$36.00 million
Support to Service Providers to rehabilitate the provision of education services
AfDB Financing: US$ 18.0 million
IDA Financing: US$ 18.0 million
Years of neglect and under-investment in the education sector and war have eroded the education system.
GERs of 63% in primary and 16% in lower secondary translate into hundreds of thousands of children
who do not have access to schooling or the means to attend schools where they are available. The
majority of those not attending are girls or are in areas of the country that were badly damaged by the
war. The schooling infrastructure has deteriorated to the point where only 13% of classrooms are usable
in their current condition, 52% require repair or rehabilitation and 35% require reconstruction. Very few
schools have a safe water supply and less than one third have latrines or toilets. More than 1,300
teachers are still "displaced" and 10,000 (50%) do not have a formal teaching qualifications. In addition,
400,000 students do not have textbooks; and 12,000 teachers lack teacher guides.
Renovation of the sector has been largely driven by missions, NGOs/CBOs and relief organizations. To
a large extent, areas of support have been driven by the evolving security situation and the areas of
expertise offered by the donor (e.g. in construction, training, or school management). This component of
the Project will encourage organizations working in education to provide more comprehensive support
packages to a greater number of schools.
Objectives: The objective of the Project is to assist the Government of Sierra Leone to re-establish the
education services in the post-conflict situation, and prepare the grounds for building up the sector.
Specifically, the objective of this component is to provide schooling of acceptable quality to as many
children as possible, emphasizing the expansion of education services to underserved areas or excluded
populations. To meet its objectives, this component will provide the following:
(a) Support to education service providers to bring primary schools and JSS to BOL standards.
The component provides funds for proposals from education SPs to bring primary and lower secondary
schools within a given district up to BOL. By the end of the Project, at least 50% of schools in every
district should meet BOL standards. The Project will encourage SPs to expand coverage in underserved
areas, based on notional district allocation.
(b) Introduce peace education into the curriculum and school environment. Communities,
especially children, in post-conflict situations experience trauma and stress that has a negative effect and
prevents children and families from conducting normal routine activities. In addition, children's ability
to learn and concentrate can also be impaired. Schools play an important role in returning a degree of
normalcy within the post-conflict environment. This Project will support in addition to bringing schools
to an operational level, the development of a peace education program. The objectives of this program
are to train teachers, parents and students to engage in peace-related processes such as constructive
conflict resolution, promotion of tolerance, and understanding of differences and trauma healing, in order
to build a broad culture of peace within and beyond schools. The program will develop a tool-kit for
teachers, parents and students and will address curriculum materials and specific teaching and classroom
activities, as well as a more broad set of issues dealing with creating peaceful environment in schools and
the community.
- 43 -



(c) Support to non-formal and emergency education programs. It is estimated that as many as
500,000 children aged 10 to 14 years have missed some years of schooling because of the war. These
children are mostly IDPs or returned refugees and are now over age for their academic class levels. The
CREPS was initiated in 2000 to cater for the needs of these children, especially those who are already
out-of-school and would like to make up for lost time. Building on lessons learned from the ALP in
Liberia, CREPS was jointly developed by the MEST and UNICEF. The program compresses the
normally six year primary school program into three years. The RREP started in 2000 as a collaborative
effort involving the MEST, NRC and UNICEF. The initiative is designed to respond quickly to the
educational needs of out-of-school IDP/returnee children to enable the children to enter or re-enter
formal primary schools as soon as possible. The RREP curriculum concentrates on numeracy and
literacy skills while also focusing on peace-building, human rights, religion and morals. The teachers are
trained to cope with children who may feel the psychological effects of trauma and will have learning
and/or behavioral difficulties. The Project will support non-formal initiatives on an "as needed basis."
The bulk of the resources to fund these programs will come from AfDB.
(d) HIV/AIDS Prevention and Life Skills Program. The H1V/ALDS epidemic is an important and
growing threat to the education system in Sierra Leone. Taking a severe toll on the society, it also
dampens the demand for education as affected households have fewer resources to spend on education
either because of reduced income due to illness of income earners or diversion of scarce resources for
health care. Moreover, the epidemic is likely to significantly affect the supply of teachers and education
personnel. Currently, there are a number of health programs under implementation, including the Sierra
Leone HIV/AIDS Rapid Response Project (SHARP), aimed at preventing the spread of H1V/AIDS.
Although SHARP provides funding for school-based HIV/AIDS prevention programs, this Project will
support, on a demand-driven basis, school initiatives to prevent and mitigate the spread of the disease.
The School Grants Program
Based on the experience gained while undertaking reconstruction efforts in the post-conflict period, in
which there has been excellent collaboration between the Government and the NGOs in reestablishing
primary schools, and in particular building upon the model developed in the Moyamba District, the
Project will support the expansion of this experience. In Moyamba, one leading NGO has, in
partnership with the MEST, been in charge of the rehabilitation and reconstruction of schools, provision
of textbooks to all enrolled children, training of teachers, training and support to SMCs, support to the
DEO, and the establishment of emergency education programs. As a result, a total of 294 schools, 180
government-assisted and 114 non-government schools in Moyamba have access to textbooks, trained
teachers, and an SMC. In order to expand this experience to all districts in the country, the Project will
support the schools via the education SPs. On a demand-driven basis, education SPs will be eligible to
provide a comprehensive package of services to the schools and will receive project funds, on a
contractual agreement with the PCU. The support to the schools will be given in the form of school
grants, managed by the SPs, and monitored by the MEST. Proposal formats and instructions will be
detailed in a Grants Operations Manual, to be finalized by Government and agreed on with IDA and the
AfDB prior to negotiations.
Definitions
For the purposes of this program education service providers (SP) are defined as (i) established and
functioning DEOs; (ii) missions; or (iii) NGOs or CBOs working in education.
Basic operational level (BOL) standards are defined as: the existence of (i) a safe, furnished school
building; (ii) the presence of (at least 50%) of teachers minimally trained teachers, with the
-44 -



recommended maximum student-teacher ratio of 40 to 1; (iii) a core set textbooks for every child; and
(iv) a functioning school support structure, in the form of an SMC.
Grants are defined as support to schools given by the SPs based on a contractual agreement with the
PCU, covering the following: reconstruction/rehabilitation, furniture, textbooks, teacher training, teacher
guides, peace education toolkits, training and cash support for small repairs for SMCs. Based on the
needs of the schools, Grants can be Full Grants covering all of the above, and Partial Grants, excluding
infrastructure (reconstruction and furniture costs). Schools should be rehabilitated/reconstructed in
accordance with existing building codes and adequate toilet and water facilities should be provided with
a proper and functioning waste disposal system.
Target areas
Resources will be notionally allocated to the districts based a formula that takes into account the level of
damage that has been done to the schooling infrastructure and population. Notional allocations may be
revised from time to time based on project progress in the districts or evidence of population movements.
Based on estimates of unit costs for rehabilitation/reconstruction of schools, textbooks, teacher training,
teachers guides, peace education toolkits and support to SMCs, the Project will provide full grants to
approximately 500 primary schools and 100 JSS schools. In addition, an estimated 650 primary schools
and 90 JSS will receive partial grants every year.
Distribution of Grant Program Per District
in Primary and Junior Secondary Education
Notional    Estimated number of primary school  Estimated number of JSS grants per Distnct
allocation  grants per District dunng five years of  during five years of project
project  __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Distncts        US$        Grant    Complete     Partial      Grant       Complete      Partial
Program     Grant       Grant      Program        Grant       Grant
Proposal    Proposal                 Proposal     Proposal
Urban Freetown      1,882,002      175         24         151           33            6          27
Bonthe I & 2         253,534        24          4          20            4             1          4
Rural Freetown       515,718        60          8          52            8             l          7
Bo                   672,840        62          8          54           12            2           10
Kenema             2,962,633       348         46         299           46            8          38
Moyamba            2,396 683       273         27         246           37             6          30
Tonkolili 1 & 2    2,589,561       304         42         262           40            7          33
Pujehun            1,185,053       139         19         120           18            3           15
Bombali            3,666,490       340         47         293           64            11          53
Kambia             2,523,725       296         41         255           39             7          32
PortLoko I &2      3,957,641       476         65         410            63           11          52
Kono               5,098,746       611         84         527            81           14          67
Koinadugu          3,302 788       387         54         334            51            9          42
Kailahun           4,992,586       586         81         505           78            13          64
Total  36,000,000     4,081        550        3,528          575          100         475
*Total indicative budget for school grants in pnmary andjunior secondary
*Distncts in bold for IDA Funding
SDistncts in plain text for AfDB funding
-45 -



Distribution of Grant Program        Per District in
Primary School
Notional      Estimated number of grants per  Estimated number of grants per District per
allocation   Distnct during five vears of project             year
Distnets         US$        Grant    Complete     Partial      Grant       Complete      Partial
Program     Grant       Grant      Program        Grant        Grant
Proposal    Proposal                  Proposal     Proposal
Urban Freetown      1,882,002      175         24          151           35            5          30
Bonthe I & 2         253,534        24          4           20            5            1           4
Rural Freetown       515,718        60           8          52           12            2           10
Bo                   672,840        62           8          54           13            2           11
Kenema              2,962,633      348         46          299           70           10          60
Moyamba             2,396,683      273          27         246           53            5          48
Tonkolili 1 & 2    2,589,561       304         42          262           61            8          52
Pujehun             1,185,053      139          19         120           28            4          24
Bombali             3,666,490      340          47         293           69            10          59
Kambia              2,523,725      296          41         255           59             8          51
PortLoko I & 2      3,957,641      476         65          410           95            13          82
Kono                5,098,746      611          84         527          122            17         105
Koinadugu           3,302,788      387          54         334           77            11          67
Kailahun            4,992,586      586          81         505          117            16         101
Total   36,000,000     4,081        550       3,528          816           112         704
*Total indicative budget for school grants in pnmary andjunior secondary
*Note. Distncts in bold for IDA funding
*Note Distncts in plain text for AfDB funding
Distribution of Grant Program Per District
in Junior Secondary School (JSS)
Notional      Estimated number of grants per   Estimated number of grants per Distnct
allocation   District during five years of project   during five years of pr oect
Districts        US$        Grant    Complete     Partial      Grant       Complete      Partial
Program     Grant       Grant       Program       Grant        Grant
Proposal    Proposal                  Proposal     Proposal
Urban Freetown      1,882,002       33           6          27             7            1           5
Bonthe I & 2         253,534         4           I           4             1            0           I
Rural Freetown       515,718         8           1           7             2            0           1
Bo                   672,840        12           2          10             2            0           2
Kenema              2,962,633       46           8          38             9            2           8
Moyamba            2,396,683        37           6          30            7             1           6
Tonkolili 1 & 2     2,589,561       40           7          33             8            I           7
Pujehun             1,185,053       18           3          15            4             1           3
Bombali             3,666,490       64          11          53            13            2          11
Kambia             2,523,725        39           7          32             8            1           6
Port Loko I & 2    3,957,641        63          11          52            13            2          10
Kono                5,098,746       81          14          64            16            3          13
Koinadugu          3,302,788        51           9          42            10            2           8
Kailahun           4,992,586        78          13          64            16            3          13
Total  36,000,000       575         100         475           115           20          95
*Total indicative budget for school grants in pnrmary andjunior secondary
*Districts in bold for IDA funding
*Distncts in plain text for AfDB funding
-46 -



Project Component 2 - US$5.60 million
Project Component 2 - Enhanced Institutional Capacity of the MEST (Total: US$ 4 million)
AfDB: US$ 2.0 million
IDA: US$: 2.0 million
The MEST's already weak institutional capacity was further debilitated by a ten-year long civil conflict
during the 1990's. In addition to the destruction done to the education system by the war, a chronic lack
of funding as well as an often under-qualified personnel have seriously undermined the MEST's
capacity, not only to provide education services, but also to take charge of its daily operational tasks.
In the current post-conflict situation, the priority for the MEST consists in delivering education services
to an increasing number of children who are enrolling (many for the first time) in schools. The first
component of the Project will, thus, finance school grant proposals for primary and JSS submitted by SPs
which will aim to ensure that these schools operate under a BOL standard and that an increasing number
of children have access to an improved schooling environment. In this context and in order to support a
return to normalcy, the objective of the project's second component is first and foremost to assist in the
management and delivery of the School Grant Program by building suitable institutional capacity within
the MEST, its DEOs and, at the community level, with the establishment of SMCs. This component will
seek to achieve this objectives through three sub-components: (i) the establishment of a well-functioning
PCU; (ii) the strengthening of the MEST's planning and management capacity; and (iii) providing
support to education service delivery by building capacity at local level through district
inspectors/quality assurance officers and SMCs.
2.1 Establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (Total: US$ 0.9 million)
AfDB: US$ 0.45 million
IDA: US$ 0.45 million
A small PCU will be established within the MEST. This PCU will have the overall responsibility of
planning, coordinating and managing activities to be funded by the Project as well as to provide overall
technical support as required for the functioning and institutional strengthening of the MEST. The PCU
will include a Project Director and three key specialists: (1) a National Technical Coordinator; (2) a
Partnership Coordinator and (3) a Capacity-Building Coordinator whose tasks are summarized in the
implementation arrangement section hereafter.
One of the main responsibility of the PCU staff will be to set up and subsequently manage the
partnership mechanism by which service providers will submit school grant proposals for PSC approval.
This will consist in conducting at least quarterly technical reviews of grant proposals taking into
consideration grant program targets (i.e. outputs) set in annual working plans, eligibility expenditures and
education data provided by annual school surveys and forthcoming EMIS. To fulfill its mission, the PCU
will work closely with several of the MEST directorates/units such as the newly established Procurement
Unit, the project financial management entity with the Finance Directorate, the Civil Works Unit and the
Planning Directorate which will provide services for the management of the grant program. These key
central administrative units will be reinforced as described in the next sub-component.
Through its capacity-building coordinator, the PCU will be responsible for consolidating training
opportunities for professional staff development. He/she will work with units being strengthened to
identify training and skill need areas and key staff to participate in training. Training provided will aim
at creating in-house expertise in order to ensure a gradual phasing out of national and international
-47 -



technical assistance.
Finally, the PCU will be responsible for elaborating and implementing a communication strategy to
disseminate the objectives of the Project. The PCU will organize a project launch seminar to familiarize
and train MEST staff and stakeholders with the Partnership Program.
2.2 Strengthening the MEST's Planning and Management Capacity (Total: US$ 1.5 million)
AfDB: US$ 0.75 million
IDA: US$ 0.75 million
The assessment of the MEST's organizational capacity carried out during project preparation revealed
several factors of institutional weakness in the MEST. For instance, the absence of a clear vision and
division of labor between and within directorates; the lack of training opportunities to meet staff
professional development needs; an inadequate and dysfunctional working environment (both in terms of
equipment, furniture and transportation); a chronic lack of resources both in regard to the number of
personnel and financing are some of the key factors hampering the functioning of the MEST.
Despite widespread needs and to increase the impact and effectiveness of this sub-component, it was
decided that building capacity in planning and management will benefit a few key central administrative
units of the MEST in order to (1) ensure that these units will be adequately equipped with the
skills/expertise and means to effectively support project implementation and in particular to provide
necessary services for the management of the grant program; and (2) tackle areas in urgent need of
reform for improving the efficiency of the MEST's resource management system. The main targets for
strengthening overall management and planning capacity in the MEST are as follows:
1. Procurement Unit. (Financed by IDA) A procurement unit will be established under the DG
(Administration). Technical Assistance will be provided for the duration of the project through the
appointment of procurement specialist who will be backed by a specialized firm. This Unit will be
responsible for all procurement matters under the current project. The Unit will provide technical
assistance on procurement upon request to service providers implementing school grants and will
supervise service providers compliance with agreed procurement procedures. Finally, the procurement
specialist will be responsible for training counterparts to ensure that the MEST acquires the capacity to
carry out procurement independently from external support.
2. Civil Works units. (Financed by AfDB) A civil works architect/engineer will be appointed to the Civil
Works Unit of the Planning Directorate for the duration of the project. He/She will work with other staff
in the Unit to supervise the implementation of the civil works component of the School Grant Program.
3. Financial Management. (Financed by IDA) As for procurement, a financial specialist backed up by a
specialized firm will be appointed to the Finance Directorate to set up the required financial and
accounting procedures to be used for this project. The MEST will assign two accountants to work with
the financial specialist on these tasks. The financial specialist will gradually transfer knowledge on
project financial management to other key personnel of the Finance Directorate.
Following this, a long-term technical assistance will target the Finance Directorate (Financed by DFID
under their governance strategy and in collaboration with the World Bank Public Sector Reform Project)
with the objective of supporting the establishment of an efficient transparent financial management
system. A Financial Controller will be appointed to work directly with the DG (Administration) to
prepare a complete overhaul of the Finance Directorate. He/she will undertake a thorough assessment of
the MEST's accounting and financial system and procedures; define training needs based on identified
- 48 -



areas to be reinforced; design new procedures as necessary; and, prepare a comprehensive plan to
upgrade office equipment (e.g. accounting software).  The accounting and treasury and budget
formulation and monitoring are key priority areas in urgent need of reinforcement in order to improve the
overall management of the MEST and to increase planning capacity. Finally, an internal audit capacity
will be created.
4. Education Management Information System (EMIS). The timely availability of good quality education
data will greatly contribute to build the MEST's capacity for the planning and management of the
education sector, especially as Sierra Leone is gradually emerging from a conflict situation and that the
demand for education services is quickly rising. By the same token, accessing and maintaining updated
information on schools achieving BOL standards will be crucial for monitoring project implementation.
As a consequence, the Project will finance activities aimed at setting up an EMIS. An EMIS specialist
will be recruited to design and to prepare the various implementation phases for setting up the EMIS.
He/she will part of the Planning Directorate and will work closely with counterpart to define information
needs, data collection procedures, identify hardware and software requirements, prepare training
programs for staff, provide overall technical guidance and define reporting requirements.
The proposed EMIS will include school-based and staff-based data and financial data. In a later stage, it
is expected that the system will be capable of displaying the data on maps using a geographical
information system (GIS). These should be linked together in a system that can take data from a variety
of sources with varying frequencies of updating. It should be able to disseminate this information to a
range of users in a number of physical locations. It will also need to incorporate the varying needs of the
users of the system, from data entry and validation to situation analysis.  As a parallel and
complementary development, the central units of the MEST should be linked to a local area network
(LAN). The EMIS should also be reproducible on CD, to enable regional and school-based use on PCs
(personal computer) even in the absence of consistent electronic communication.
The qualifications, role and functions of the staff to develop and maintain the EMIS are distinct from
those of existing Planning staff, as they are based on the skills of systems analysis -- in essence, they are
computer programmers. While end users define the data needs of the system and the outputs required
from it, the EMIS staff will need to translate these needs into a comprehensive computer system that
allows for data entry, editing, updating and reporting. Additional staff will be needed for network
administration, to maintain the network, to ensure data integrity and security, and to maintain individual
PCs and associated equipment. The EMIS staff should therefore be part of a separate unit, either
associated with the Statistics Unit or reporting separately to the head of Planning.
In parallel, the Project will finance the organization of four annual school surveys (50% financed by
AfDB and 50% financed by IDA) which will provide an essential part of the information to be integrated
in the forthcoming EMIS system. These school surveys will follow the model developed for the NSSR
(2001). In the first stage, the MEST will contract out some of the work, in particular to the CSO.
However, it is expected that gradually the Planning Directorate will build in-house expertise through
training, setting procedures, and acquiring equipment so that it will be able to take responsibility for an
increasing number of tasks required for the completion of this type of work (such as preparing
information entry/reporting forms, collecting data; processing data, producing statistical and analytical
reports).
5. Human Resource Management (Financed by DFID as part of their governance strategy and in
collaboration with the Public Sector Reform Project). To further build capacity the project will provide
-49 -



technical assistance to benefit the Personnel Directorate, which will include the appointment of a
personnel management specialist. The objective is to support the establishment of an effective human
resources management system to ensure that: (i) all staff are duly accounted for; that (ii) recruitment and
deployment of staff (in particular teachers) are carried out in a transparent and rational fashion to
maximize cost-effectiveness; and that (iii) administrative procedures are being streamlined.
Capacity building activities in this area will include the following tasks:
e  Cleaning the MEST's existing personnel and preparing a database including both civil servants
(under the Personnel Management Office) and personnel under contracts (e.g. teachers in
government-assisted schools). Information on personnel will have to include geographical
location (i.e.: deployment), qualifications, date of recruitment, ranking grade/level, etc.
Procedures to ensure that this database is updated regularly will be determined and integrated
within the EMIS.
o  Overhauling of rules and procedures used for the appointment/recruitment and deployment of
existing and new personnel, in particular teachers, to expedite and ease the overall process (i.e.
providing better access to and rapid processing of information) and ensuring greater compliance
with existing rules in this area. The objective is to avoid salary arrears by reducing the
administrative delay between the recruitment of new employees and the payment of salaries
when funding (credit in budget) is available.
7. Training to build capacity in planning and management. (Financed by AfDB) As mentioned above,
training will be a key input of this sub-component. Training needs will be identified by each
administrative unit separately, but will be consolidated by the Capacity-Building Coordinator. He/she
will prepare biannual training programs. The MEST will ensure that training meets: (1) the specific
skills required for jobs held by staff; (2) needs for staff professional development; and (3)
outputs/outcomes to be achieved in the job. When possible, training requiring the use of office
equipment such as computers will precede the purchase of this equipment to ensure greater effectiveness
and to avoid misuse.
2.3 Supporting education service delivery (Total: US$ 1.6 million)
AfDB: US$ 0.8 million
IDA: US$ 0.8 million
This last sub-component will aim at building capacity at the local level. First, it will support the training
of an estimated 80 teacher trainers who will serve as resource people for the provision of in-service
training for unqualified teachers targeted through the School Grant Program. This in-service teacher
training program has for its main objective to develop pedagogical skills, classroom management, and to
ensure the use of teachers guides. It has been designed on a modular basis, and provides a stepping stone
for the delivery of a distance program for teachers. It is being held in complement with the peace
education program, and is five weeks in duration. These 80 teacher trainers will be selected from teacher
training colleges, and will be placed in teaching groups of 25 teachers each, during the vacation period.
Some of these training programs will be held directly in the Teachers Colleges when possible, but they
will also be held in other locations depending on the resources available in the districts themselves. It is
expected that some quality assurance officers at the district level will integrate into this group of 80
teacher trainers.
Second, all quality assurance officers will receive a specific training on the SMC manual (i.e. rules and
responsibilities of SMC) and how to mobilize and support communities in establishing an SMC. Quality
assurance officers will then conduct a series of capacity-building activities in targeted schools covered by
the School Grant Program aimed at informing and mobilizing the communities, supporting the
- 50 -



establishment of an SMC if required; and training SMCs in monitoring the provision of grant
deliverables by SPs.
The responsibility for quality assurance has already been transferred to the existing 17 District
Inspectorate Offices. A system of monitoring and supervision will be devised to include frequency of
school visits; content of information to be collected from school management staff and SMCs;
cross-checking and physical control; reporting method for school monitoring and supervision;
method/process to compile information at the district level; transmission of information to regional
education offices and MEST Quality Assurance/Inspectorate Office; feed back of information to SPs;
proprietors, SMCs and school management staff.
District Inspectorate Offices will receive essential equipment, office furniture and transportation means
to ensure that they will be able to fulfill these capacity-building responsibilities.
Implementation Arrangements
The Project will assist the Government in upgrading the current school conditions in order to meet the
BOL criteria and expand the provision of services to underserved areas in partnership with the school
SPs. The current providers of school services are the missions (80%), Government (9%) NGOs and
private (11%). The Project will provide school grants through the SPs, based on proposals submitted on
a per district basis. SPs are encouraged to submit a comprehensive package of school services, according
to the guidelines and procedures described in the Partnership Manual (PIM). The PSC will give approval
of proposals, and SPs will sign contract agreements with the PCU to deliver services to the school.
Proposals from the MEST will be subject to IDA no-objection.
Considering the lack of capacity in the MEST in managing large-scale civil works, the MEST will
pre-qualify at least three professional contract management service providers before project effectiveness
with the appropriate no-objection from the World Bank. One of these entities will be the NaCSA. The
detailed TORs for this have been prepared and agreed with the MEST. This will ensure that the civil
works component would start as soon as the Project is effective. There are a number of technically sound
civil works contract managers currently active in the country with experience from various IDA-financed
projects.
Based on the findings of the institutional capacity assessment study financed under the PHRD Grant, two
alternatives were considered for the implementation arrangements: (a) establishing a full-fledged PCU
staffed with necessary professionals in the MEST; and (b) constituting a team of professionals (techmcal
assistants) and co-locate them with their respective counterpart in the MEST divisions. Neither of these
options was considered feasible for-this Project. However, the project preparation team finds a hybrid of
the two options more realistic and suitable to the existing level of competency in the MEST. Under this
arrangement a PCU will be established having a "core" team of Project Director, a technical coordinator,
a partnership program coordinator and a capacity-building coordinator (with necessary support staff) to
provide program leadership in project planning, implementation coordination, M&E and partnership
program implementation under the supervision of a PSC. Other specialists including an educational
planner/EMIS specialist and a civil/architect engineer will be hired and associated with their counterparts
in various divisions of the MEST. These positions will be supported under the Project for the Project's
duration. Such an arrangement will ensure that there is a clear professional leadership for the Project's
coordination so that project implementation proceeds without major delays.
Since there is no Procurement Unit in the MEST, a Procurement Unit would be established in the MEST,
staffed with necessary professional and support staff provided by the MEST. The Project will provide
procurement management specialists (as required) by a professional firm which will also play a
- 51 -



backstopping role. The procurement management specialists will be responsible for procurement under
the Project, as well as for building the capacity of the Procurement Unit. The Unit will be responsible for
all procurement management in the MEST. It is expected that this Unit will bring the required efficiency
and accountability in public procurement into the MEST. A financial management specialist will be
provided by a professional firm which will also play a backstopping role. The MEST will provide
necessary support staff to these professionals (at least two accounting staff). The intention is to build a
satisfactory level of capacity in the MEST in financial and procurement management.
SMCs will play an important role in the implementation of the objectives especially undertaking the
management of schools and monitoring the delivery of services by the SPs. Eligible entities will provide
technical assistance to the SMCs for at least one year in order to develop capacity.
The existing capacity of the NaCSA would be capitalized in providing assistance to the MEST in field
supervision of civil works in the regions/areas where the NaCSA has its operational representation and
where the MEST has difficulties in carrying out the tasks. Taking into account the NaCSA's capacity for
community outreach (through district offices), sub-project review and institutional assessments (of
contractors/NGOs), local and national level approval processes, contracting, disbursements, technical and
financial monitoring, the MEST will consider subcontracting other services from the NaCSA. An MOU
between the MEST and the NaCSA has been prepared, and will be finalized before negotiations.
a) Project Management and Coordination
The PCU will have the overall role of coordinating the activities to be funded under the Project, as well
as, technical leadership. This coordination function will bring the PCU into operational contact with the
specific ministerial services responsible for the monitoring of activities delivered by the SPs. The PCU
will ensure that the results of the capacity assessment are put in place and closely monitored. The
Planning Division, Inspectorate and Quality Assurance and Administration/Financial Management are
key ministerial units that will benefit from capacity-building through technical assistance and other
support provided by the Project. It has been agreed with the Government that:
a. The MEST will have one PCU that will be responsible for providing project coordination and
implementation management leadership for all parallel- and/or co-financed projects by IDA,
AfDB and other donors;
b. The PCU Director, national technical coordinator and a partnership program coordinator (highly
qualified professional positions) will be responsible for all donor-financed project coordination
within the MEST and its external partners. The technical and partnership coordinators will
ensure a decentralized, pro-active, participatory partnership among all stakeholders and SPs; and
c. Other specialties will be associated with their respective counterparts located in various divisions
of the MEST.
- 52 -



Organization location of the PCU
I lI;S' FSI 
Director General          Project Steering               Director General
Education                 Committee                    Adminiatraton 
Other MEST        Planning
Divisions        Division                                  Financial      Human Resource
-    .1    -       Management Unit      Division
i  EMlaIS |    I   Technical  |     |   Finenelai  |   H| Fiuman Resource
CSvII Worke s      Coor dinator         Controller         Manager
PairnershWp  
Coordinator      _|   Fh
Cap ty Building         -Manager
Coordlnotor            & potstaff
Support Staff                4~~~~. !Pocurement~
MEST            Manoger
Project Coordination Unit  Accountant S|pport |  sZt a
All positions in the PCU are contractual under the project
A Financial and Procurement Management Agent will provide a financial and a procurement
Grey shaded boxes show PCU recruited long-term specialists
Key Responsibilities of the PCU Staff
The Project Director will be an education planning and management specialist with international
experience who will be the general director of the Project. S/he will be responsible for the planning,
coordination, and management of the project related activities. S/he will report to the Minister of
Education through the PSC.
The National Technical Coordinator will be a specialist in education planning and management with
substantial background in pedagogical planning and education project management. S/he will be overall
responsible for the development of detailed annual work plans, preparation of physical progress reports,
reporting of performance indicator, preparation of relevant TORs for consulting services and
training/workshops in collaboration with the various responsible unit heads. S/he will support the Project
Director with necessary technical advice to improve project implementation performance. S/he will also
assist the Project Director in the planning, coordination, and management of project related activities.
The Partnership Coordinator will be experienced in the planning, management and implementation of
partnership programs as well as in developing and implementing methodology (ies) for the establishment
of SMCs. S/he will have substantial background in pedagogical planning and educational project
management. S/he will be responsible for the overall development of detailed annual work plans related
to the establishment of SMCs on a phased manner (relevant to both geographical and existing
management capacity), preparation of physical progress reports on the establishment of SMCs, reporting
of relevant performance indicators, preparation of relevant TORs for consulting services and
- 53 -



training/workshops in collaboration with key stakeholders. S/he will also establish an agreed process of
liaison with key NGOs, donors, SPs and relevant UN agencies, conduct regular meetings with key
stakeholders, work in collaboration with the Technical Director to identify the areas where resources
from NGOs, SPs, donors and UN agencies are properly coordinated. S/he will support the Project
Director with necessary technical advice to improve implementation performance of the partnership
component. S/he will also assist the MEST in receiving and appraising SP proposals.
The Financial and Procurement Management Agent (FPMA), an eligible consulting firm, will
provide a qualified financial management specialist and a qualified Procurement Management Specialist
to be co-located in the PCU on full-time basis. The FPMA will not manage the project accounts (or
procurement) but will be responsible for the performance of Financial and Procurement specialists in the
PCU and will provide backstopping for its specialists. The FPMA will also be responsible for the
intemal audit of the project accounts and procurement procedures. The PCU/MEST will provide
necessary support staff to assist the working of these specialists. These specialists will be working under
the direct supervision of the Project Director.
A position of Financial Controller will be created and funded by DFID. This Financial Controller will
report to the Permanent Secretary and will be responsible for the oversight of and for supporting the
running of the Financial Directorate.
A position of Internal Auditor (or technical assistance from a specialized audit firm) will be funded by
DFID to reinforce the Internal Audit Department and ensure compliance with Auditor General's
protocols. The tasks for this position will include setting up a detailed structure, an intemal audit manual
and associated programs. It will also include a program for formal and practical training.
The Civil Works Planning and Mapping Specialist will be a local architect/engineer person who will
essentially be managing the field supervision of school buildings that require rehabilitation and
evaluation of Bill of Quantities. S/he will assist the existing Civil Works Unit head (in the Planning
Division) on all matters related to civil works planning, implementation and supervision.
The EMIS/Planning Specialist will monitor and supervise the development and implementation of an
EMIS as well as coordinating the annual school surveys in collaboration with the CSO. The Project will
finance two major contracts for the design, development and establishment of a comprehensive EMIS in
the MEST. In the first contract, an international firm will be selected to do a detailed data/information
needs assessment of the MEST for planning and decision-making purposes, develop a detailed EMIS
design and an EMIS implementation strategy/plan of action; and will train key stakeholders on
information needs and EMIS design, etc. Based on this needs assessment and strategy/plan of action, the
second subsequent contract will be awarded to another (local/international) firm to avoid any
conflict-of-interest, which will design, develop and implement an EMIS in the MEST, including the
installation of equipment, development of appropriate software and training of MEST staff.
The PSC will be a high-level advisory body with the membership of the heads of MEST divisions and
the representatives of the Association of NGOs, Association of missions, school SPs, the Sierra Leone
Teachers Union, parents, and donors/UN agencies. The committee will be chaired by the Minister of
Education. The PCU Director will present monthly project progress reports, inform the committee of
major issues and implementation problems and suggest options. The role of the committee is essential
for the success of the Project. The chairmanship of the minister will greatly help in developing a serious
operational partnership among the MEST, donors and NGOs and will ensure transparency in the system.
The PSC will meet at least monthly to review the Project's implementation progress. It will hold at least
three SP proposal review meetings per year during which it will approve technically eligible SP
proposals. Approved proposals would be started by the SPs as soon as the approval has been granted
contract signed between PSC/SPs and paperwork completed. On an annual basis, the PSC will review
- 54 -



the annual performance of the subprojects and the overall Project and submit its report to the Minister,
IDA and other donors. This annual performance review will be based on the annual EMIS school survey
data, implementation progress of the previous year, BOL monitoring indicators, lessons learned, capacity
developed and availability of resources. Details of the process are presented in the next section (
implementation of the partnership program). Detailed operational guidelines for the delivery of school
services by SPs, BOL indicators, and eligibility criteria are described in a Partnership Program Manual
(PIM).
(b) Implementation of the Partnership/Grants Program
The first component of the Project will be delivered, in large part, by various school SPs. They include
NGOs, missions, and other donors. The PSC will be a forum to ensure proper utilization of project
resources, decentralization, and a trust-worthy partnership with the SPs, donors and the MEST.
The process involved in the implementation of this partnership program is presented in the following
diagram and described thereafter.
Partnership Program Implementation Arrangement and Information Flow
- Technical Coordinator                                                    It a service provider does
- Partnership Coordinator                                                  not possess sufficient
- Cvil Works Unit                                                          capacity for civil works, the
- DG Quality Assurance                   MEST Technical                    actmty will be managed by
- FinancialProc Managers                 Evaluation Team                   one of the CW contract
- 2 reps of Service providers                                              management firms
roizeSChonolidte                                 provedl'su 
sd natponal proposals                          praproposals  s
Service Provider  /'
(naUonal rep) 
.  plntzed SchUoot/}                              VApoe 
base propoas                                        rpsiy.
Dilst Inspectorate                                Financial & Proc Unit
l  Offl.e    1                                        of MEST
|Dsfc   needsd                                   | J
istLicC                                         de   .nas
A  Service Provider   c           ,  SMs (     B       o
|(school/dist rep)       Acot(ly      |\       Srvico Provider|
\<rneeds                                         t
An SP, in consultation with its target community (ies), SMCs (or Board of Governors of JSS) and the
DEO, will identify development needs of its target communities within the framework of a predefined
- 55 -



menu of eligible activities and expenditures and submit a consolidated "proposal" to the PCU.
The project will encourage service providers to submit proposals that provide comprehensive support:
Full grants (buildings, furniture, textbooks, and teacher training) covering a significant number of
schools per district. SPs are encouraged to submit proposals to cover a minimum of 10 schools per
proposal. Based on discussions with current SPs during the appraisal mission, it is estimated that the
needs of an entire district can be managed by 2-3 lead SPs in partnership with local NGOs and CBOs and
subcontractors. Based on estimates of unit costs for rehabilitation/reconstruction of schools, textbooks,
teacher training, teachers guides, peace education toolkit and support to SMCs, the Project will provide
Full Grants to 500 primary schools and 100 JSS. In addition, approximately 650 primary schools and 90
JSS will receive Partial Grants per year.
A technical team comprised of the technical and partnership coordinators (of PCU), the Planning
Division and Quality Assurance and Inspectorate Divisions of the MEST will evaluate the proposal. This
team will apply the eligibility criteria, use the EMIS annual school survey data and other evaluation and
research reports to review the needs expressed in the SP proposal, and present it to the PSC for a
decision. The team may conduct field visits, conduct capacity and needs assessments, and/or engage in a
series of meetings with the applicant before vetting the proposal.
The technical evaluation of a proposal will involve:
o      Conformity with the eligibility criteria:
For SPs:
1.     That key personnel are in place;
2.     Capacity to procure goods and services according to project regulations;
3.     Financial management and reporting capacity; and
4.     Capacity to monitor and report project activities.
For Schools:
1.     Proof of registration as a school or authorization to operate;
2.     A student enrollment of at least 50 students;
3.     A statement of a payroll registry, free of non-attending or ghost workers; and
4.    In the case of proposals submitted by missions or NGOs/CBOs endorsement of proposal
by the DEO.
o      Conformity with eligible expenditures, which include:
1.     Construction, renovation, or repair of school facilities under $25,000 per facility (larger
civil works would be managed by approved firms)
2.     Classroom furmiture
3.     Textbooks
4.     Teaching and leaming materials
5.     Teacher and headmaster training
6.     Teacher reintegration package
7.     School-based peace education initiatives
8.     HIV/AIDS Prevention and Life Skills activities.
9.     Non-fonmal or alternative education programs for overage children
10.    Training for SMCs
11.   Management support and overhead, not to exceed 10% of the total value of the proposal
o      Proposal review: The PSC will review proposals at least on a quarterly basis to ensure:
1.     Compliance with basic eligibility criteria
2.     That the value of the proposal does not exceed a notional allocation for each district
- 56 -



3.     That unit costs for eligible expenditures are within agreed norms
4.     That the implementation plan is realistic and achievable within 2 years
5.     There is no duplicate support for schools
If an SP applicant has a strong proposal but is determined by the PCU to be lacking in capacity (financial,
procurement management, and/or implementation management), the technical team may refer the SP to
an approved NGO or management agency, to establish a partnership for the proposal.
Eligible proposals will be presented to the PSC by the Technical Team for decision. The PSC will meet
at least four times per year to review new proposals/applications, implementation progress of the ongoing
activities. All proposals over US$ 200,000 will be subject to IDA no-objection, as well as all proposals
presented by the MEST.
Approved proposals will lead to a contract agreement between SPs and the PCU. The contract will be
drawn for the delivery of tangible outputs. The PCU and the financial/procurement unit of the MEST will
manage the logistics of the contracts.
Qualified SPs will undertake the implementation of the contract and will be accountable to the MEST at
the national level through the PSC.
SPs will submit monthly progress report(s) to the PCU on a prescribed format. This reporting will
include physical implementation progress as well as financial and procurement. The formats and the
procedures are provided in the Partnership Program Manual (PIM). The annual school facilities survey
by EMIS will provide the additional feedback to the PSC and the MEST on the development of the basic
education sector. The PCU and the Planning Division will prepare quarterly consolidated progress
reports on SP initiatives and present to the PSC.
The success of the Partnership Program will largely depend on wider awareness among the key
stakeholders including the SPs. Therefore, the MEST will publish and widely distribute brochures with
project information, and organize a number of informative meetings at the national and sub-national
levels especially for the Partnership Program.
It was agreed with the MEST, NGOs and SPs that in the immediate future all districts will be covered
under the partnership agreement. This agreement was reached based on the existing capacity among all
the SPs.
The proposals from the NGOs/SPs will not be required to obtain a separate approval from the Ministry of
Development and Economic Planning (MODEP), as MODEP will also be a member of the PSC.
However, the PCU (partnership coordinator) will provide necessary information to MODEP on all
approved projects. Grants funds provided under the Project will not be subject to taxation.
- 57 -



(c) Eligible Activities and Responsibilities under the Partnership Program
The objective of these eligible activities is to bring a school to a basic operational level:
E   ,i .-                                             Distr. but . ,.r
Eligible Acivities for SPs;   -    .Procurernent         Distribution or         Monitoring Responsibility
. - ., ; , - -  -  . ;  ,~:  - Responsibility  .  ImpleMentation             ,
| ;.-  .  L,   .  .  ,, ,,  ,    , -      1 Responsibility
Construction of new school buildings at  MEST through its civil  N/A             Civil Works Unit of the Planning Division
new locations identified by an SP and  works contract                           (MEST) or its delegated entity
confirmed by the MEST                 management firm(s).
SPs will undertake civil
works responsibility only
if they have the
capacity.
Reconstruction of the whole school building The MEST through its  N/A            Civil Works Unit of the Planning Division
or its partial reconstruction.        civil works contract                       (MEST) or its delegated entity
management firm(s).
SP will undertake civil
works responsibility only
if they have the
capacity
All reconstruction and repairs of school  SP                 N/A                 Civil Works Unit of the Planning Division
buildings that are valued below US$ 10,000                                      (MEST) or its delegated entity
School fumishing (wooden)             SP                     SP                  Planning and Quality Assurance Divisions
of MEST at the national level and SMC at
the community level
Set of 4 core textbooks procurement and  SP                SP                    The textbooks unit of the MEST at the
distnbution                                                                      national level and SMC at the community
level.
Teaching and leaming materials including  SP                SP                   Planning and QAI Divisions of the MEST
exercise books for pupils, pencils, erasers,                                     at the national level and SMC at the
chalk, blackboards                                                               community level
Incentive package for the reintegration of  SP              SP                   Planning and QAI Divisions of MEST at
teachers. Package to include a bicycle, a                                        the national level and SMC at the
lantem and cooking utensils                                                      community level.
School-based peace building activities  SP                   SP                  The Quality Assurance and Inspectorate
Division of the MEST
HIV/AIDS prevention and life skills   SP                     SP                 The Quality Assurance and Inspectorate
activities                                                                       Division of the MEST
School-based initiatives for out-of-school  SP               SP                  The Quality Assurance and Inspectorate
youngsters (15-19 years old)                                                     Division of the MEST
In-service teacher training of untrained  SP                 MEST                The Quality Assurance and Inspectorate
teachers                                                                         Division of the MEST
Establishment of SMCs                 The MEST through       N/A                 The Quality Assurance and Inspectorate
contractual agreements                      Division of the MEST.
with eligible NGOs
(local and foreign)
Arrangements for implementation of civil works
The MEST Architect will be the Manager for the Project's civil works program. New schools will be
based on the already developed standard designs. A standard tender document (which includes drawings
- 58 -



and Bills of Quantities) would be prepared for use on all contracts for new schools. The standard
document would need only updating for siting and foundations, which would depend on the site selected
for school. Tender documents for major rehabilitations [estimated to cost over US$ 25,000 equivalent]
would require detailed preparation by a qualified architect. Preparation for minor rehabilitations would
be handled by an SMC.
Management of construction of new schools and major rehabilitations would be delegated to two
architectural consulting firms and the NaCSA (referred to as Works Management Agents - WMA).
However where an SP is assessed to have capacity to play the role of a WMA, the SP would be allowed
to do so. The responsibilities of the WMA would be to prepare tender documents, evaluate bids and
supervise (on periodic basis) construction until completion. This service would also be provided by the
NaCSA and detailed in the MOU to be signed between the MEST and the NaCSA.
For purpose of managing civil works for schools, the country will be divided into three Regions (i.e.
West and South, North and East). Each region will be managed by one WMA each selected on a
competitive basis and to follow TORs that have already been prepared. The said TORs will be used to
negotiate an agreement and MOU with the NaCSA. SPs delegated WMA responsibilities will be
expected to perform these tasks on the basis of the same TORs.
In order to ensure use of local unskilled labor, artisans and materials and to encourage the development
of small contractors in rural areas, contract packages for civil works will not exceed US$ 200,000
equivalent. SPs will be provided with simplified tender documents for small contracts.
(d) Project planning, monitoring, evaluation and supervision. Project implementation will be based
on an agreed annual work plan (AWP). The PCU will prepare the AWP in collaboration with the
Planning Division of the MEST. The AWP will identify activities to be performed, targets to be
achieved for each agency within the MEST as well as involved partner NGOs and UN Agencies. The
AWP will be supported with revised annual procurement and cash forecasts.
The PCU and the Planning Division will formulate an annual field supervision plan and budget to
monitor project implementation. This will be based mainly on school-level input monitoring and
supervised by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) of the MEST. An annual extemal audit will be
performed by qualified national or intemational accounting firms. The Project will also finance spot
checks of the accounts of the beneficiaries. The PCU will identify an eligible auditor before project
effectiveness.
The SMCs will monitor the achievement of the BOL standards within the project framework. This will
be achieved by developing the capacity within the SMC with technical support from the QAG, the SPs
and eligible local NGOs under contract with the MEST.
The civil works contract management firms, hired under the Project, will prepare and submit detailed
progress reports on each work site by the stage of construction. Supervision will be done by the NaCSA
under the MOU signed with the MEST.
Each sub-project will be monitored through an agreed set of output indicators set out in the contract
document to be signed between the PCU and school SPs. The SPs will submit monthly physical and
financial progress reports to the PCU in the prescribed format. These formats will be outlined in the
Project Operations Manual and the Partnership Program Manual (PIM). In addition, the SMC will report
on a quarterly basis, on the completion of BOL standards. Subsequent disbursement of funds will
depend on the timely submission of the progress report by the SP.
- 59 -



(e) Partnership Program Targets and Implementation Plan
1) Primary Schools
Complete Grants for 500 Schools  Year I      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5       Total
rimary schools
onstructed/rehabilitated            75         125         100         100         100          500
chool furniture (number of desk and
hair per student)               19,500      32,500       26,000      26,000      26,000      130,000
et of textbooks                 22,500      37,500       30,000      30,000      30,000      150,000
MC                                  75         125         100         100         100          500
Untrained teachers to be trained   600        1,000        800          800         800         4,000
eacher's guide for textbooks       600        1,000        800         800         800         4,000
eachers' module                    600        1,000        800         800         800         4,000
Teacher's peace education toolkit   800         800         800         800         800         4,000
Partial Grants for 650 Schools   Year I      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Total
Set of textbook                  170,000     170,000     170,000      170,000     170,000      50,000
Teacher to be trained (20% in each of
650 schools)                        800         800          800         800         800        4,000
Teacher's guide for textbooks       800         800          800         800         800        4,000
eachers' module                    800         800          800        800          800        4,000
Teacher's peace education toolkit   800         800          800         800         800        4,000
Total Grant Program in Primary
Education                        Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5       Total
Primary school
constructed/rehabilitated            75          125         100         100         100           500
Teachers' module                    800          800         800         800         800         4,000
rmary school
constructed/rehabilitated            75          125         100         100         100           500
School furimture (number of desk and
chair per student)                19,500      32,500      26,000       26,000      26,000       130,000
Set of textbooks                 192,500     207,500      00,000      200,000      00,000     1,000,000
SMC                                  75          125         100         100          100          500
Untrained teachers to be trained   1,400       1,800        1,600       1,600       1,600         8,000
Teacher's g~ude for textbooks      1,400       1,800        1,600       1,600       1,600         8,000
Teachers' module                   1,400       1,800        1,600       1,600       1,600         8,000
Teacher's peace education toolkit  1,600       1,600        1,600       1,600       1,600         8,000
(2) Junior Secondary Schools
Complete Grants for 100 JSS     Year 1       Year 2      Year 3      Year 4       Year 5      Total
unior Secondary School
onstructed/rehabilitated            15          25          20            20         20          100
chool furniture (number of desk and
hair per student)                2,100        3,500       2,800        2,800       2,800      14,000
et of textbooks                  2,100        3,500      2,800         2,800      2,800       14,000
SMC                                  15           25         20            20         20          100
ntrained teachers to be trained    150         250         200          200         200        1,000
eacher's guide for textbooks       150         250         200           200        200        1,000
Teachers' module                    150         250         200          200         200        1,000
reacher's peace education toolkit   150         250         200          200         200        1,000
- 60 -



Partial Grants for 95 JSS        Year I      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Total
Set of textbooks                 17,200       17,200      17,200      17,200       17,200      86,000
Teachers to be trained             200         200          200         200          200        1,000
Teacher's guide for textbooks      200         200          200         200          200        1,000
Teachers' module                   200         200          200         200          200        1,000
Teacher's peace education toolkit  200         200          200         200          200        1,000
Total Grant Program in Junior
Secondary Education              Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Total
Junior Secondary School             15          25           20           20          20         100
School fumiture (number of desk and
chair per student)                2,100       3,500        2,800      2,800         2,800      14,000
Set of textbooks                 19,300      20,700       20,000      20,000       20,000     100,000
SMC                                  15          25          20          20           20         100
Untrained teachers to be trained    350         450         400         400          400       2,000
Teacher's guide for textbooks       350         450         400         400          400       2,000
Teachers' module                    350         450         400         400          400       2,000
Teacher's peace education toolkit   350         450         400         400          400        2,000
(3) Primary and Junior Secondary
Schools
Total Grant Program in Primary
and Junior Secondary Education   Year 1      Year 2       Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Total
School                               90         150         120         120          120           600
School fumiture (number of desk and
chair per student)               21,600      36,000       28,800      28,800      28,800        144,000
Set of textbooks                  11,800     228,200      20,000      20,000      220,000     1,100,000
SMC                                  90         150         120          120         120           600
Untrained teachers to be trained   1,750      2,250        2,000        2,000      2,000         10,000
Teacher's guide for textbooks      1,750      2,250        2,000        2,000      2,000        10,000
Teachers' module                   1,750      2,250        2,000        2,000      2,000         10,000
Teacher's peace education toolkit  1,950      2,050        2,000        2,000      2,000         10,000
(f) Financial and Procurement Management
See Annex 6 for financial and procurement arrangement details.
- 61 -



Critical Path
PROJECT
TASK AREAS                 RESPONSIBLE UNIT       CRITICAL PATH           COMPONENT
I   PCU project Director recruited       MEST                     January 2003       Component 2.1
Technical Review Commuttee set up with
recruitment of
2          National technical coordinator  MEST                    February 15, 2003  Component 2.1 & 2.2
Partnership coordinator
Architect
Batch #1 of grant proposals presented to
3   technical review committee (target 90  SPs                     February 28, 2003  Component I
_   schools)
4   Technical review process completed and  PCU-Technical Review   February 15, 2003  Component I
batch #1 proposals transffuted to PSC  Comnuttee
5   PSC reviews 1 batch of proposals     MEST/PSC/PCU             March 31, 2003     Component I
6   Teacher's guide completed and ready for  MEST                  February 28, 2003  Component I
reproduction
PCU set up with recruitment of key
7   personnel from procurement and financial  MEST                 completed          Component 2.1 & 2.2
management firms
Seminar launch of project including
8   training for service providers, MEST  MEST/PCU/World Bank      April 1, 2003      Component I & 2
personnel at central and local levels (i.e.:  team
inspectors)
9   Batch #I grant proposal contracts awarded  PCU                 April 1, 2003      Component I
10  MOU signed with NaCSA for civil works  PCU                     completed          Component I
management
I  Contract for reproduction of teacher's guide PCU-procurement unit  February 28, 2003  Component I
and peace education toolkit awarded
- 62 -



12 Training of 80 trainers on classroom    5 Teacher training
management and peace education         Colleges/team of TTC  April 10, 2003     Component 2.3
management                             professors
Batch #2 of grant proposals presented to
13 technical review committee (target 650  SPs                  June 2003          Component I
schools)
14 Ensure that sets of textbooks and teacher's  Approved publisher  July 2003      Component I
guides get to Freetown
15 Technical review process completed and  PCU-Technical Review  July 2003         Component I
batch #2 proposals transmitted to PSC   Comnuittee
16 Construction/rehabilitation for batch #1 of  SPs             September 2003     Component I
complete grant proposals completed
17 Batch #2 grant proposal contracts awarded  PSC               August 2003        Component I
18 Training of 2,000 untrained teachers on  Team of TTC         July-August 2003   Component I
1  classroom management and peace education  professors/80 trainers
19 TechticalAssistance for Finance         PCU-DGA              September 2003     Component 2.2
20 Technical Assistance for Personnel      PCU-DGA               September 2003    Component 2.2
_   Directorate initiated
21 Mobilization of 120 SMCs                Inspectors            October 2003      Component 2.3
22 I st Annual school survey completed     Directorate of Planning, November 2003  Component 2 2
CSO
23 1 st training program of key MEST       PCU - Capacity       January 2004       Component 2 2
2   personnel launched                     Building Coordinator
- 63 -



CO MPLEIE GRANT PRO PO SAL IMPLEMENTATION CALENDAR
___ __    2 rwntns        K I2 nanths 
Grant proposal                                                         Grant proposal
PCU technical review   PSC approval      Contract       awarded by
Complete Partial                                            awarded       project-year
Grants   Grants
.....-..   .   .  .    . _-n        ._- -  ..... ... ... ..  .  Year I   90
Batch #1 (90 schools)   90           0 December 2002         February 2003    April 2003
Batch #2 (823 schools)  75         748 March 2003            June 2003        June 2003
Batch #3 (823 schools)  75         748 October 2003          November 2003    January 2004
Batch #4 (434 schools)  60         374 January 2004          March 2004       May 2004       Year 3    868
Batch #5 (434 schools)  60         374 September 2004        November 2004    January 2005
Batch #6 (434 schools)  60         374 January 2005          March 2005       May 2005        Year 4
.I.1- .. - . .........            .  ...... . ,. .. ,..  -.11  _- ...... ... .... . ...... . . ,  _  .  .. ........  ...... .. ",,,-,q,, ... ...... Su...... ... . . .  8 6 8a
Batch #7 (434 schools)  60         374 September 2005        November 2005    January 2006
Batch #8 (434 schools)  60         374 January 2006          March 2006       May 2006        Y8
Batch #9 (434 schools)  60         374 September 2006        November 2006    January 2007
600       3,740                                                       IOTAL    4340
. ... . .. ...  . .  . ...-.....          . .. . .....6 4   .... . .. . . . ..-.,-_  ,-...  ,  ..".. ....  _   ,  ....  _.
-64 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
;,  -, ,X' "tk'-  !'  '  .;.,  '''  'Local  Foreign  -,--Total.
;  .Project Cost By:Co,mp,nent e  ;:         US $million  US $million   US $million
Total Baseline Cost                                       34.68          1.74        36.42
Physical Contingencies                                     3.17          0.07         3.24
Price Contingencies                                        2.35          0.09         2.44
Total Baseline Cost                                       40.20          1.90        42.10
Physical Contingencies                                                               0.00
Price Contingencies                                                                   0.00
Total Project Costsl             40.20          1.90        42.10
Total Financing Required              40.20          1.90        42.10
*  *  (; ,-,s  <  4  .  1^   N  ; > ,,  1  ,. .:;   *   .FLocal ,'  Foreign   Tbtail
>^ ( 9@^t.) A>, ' 1 '>. '. " Project Cost By Category ; -,..; US,mio  US $million  US $millionr
Goods                                                        0.25           0.65         0.90
Consulting Services and Training                             2.65           1.05         3.70
Operations Cost                                              1.50           0.00         1.50
Partnership Program Grant (Sub-projects): Goods             12.20          0.20         12.40
Partnership Program Grant (Sub-projects): Works             20.64          0.00         20.64
Partnership Program Grant (Sub-projects): Consulting         1.86           0.00         1.86
Services/Training (Teachers and SMCs)
PPF and unallocated                                          1.10                        1.10
Total Project Costs      40.20          1.90         42.10
Total Financing Required      40.20          1.90        42.10
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (USSm) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 42.1 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 47.51%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 65 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
SIERRA LEONE: REHABMLITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
Economic Analysis
The last decade was marked by a number of episodes of serious efforts to undertake reforms aimed at
stabilizing the economy and laying the foundation for sustainable economic growth. These efforts,
however, were interrupted by recurrent outbreaks of violence and political instability. After declining by
an average of about 8 percent in the previous three years, real GDP grew by an estimated 3.8 percent in
2000.
The Government has developed a medium-term macroeconomic framework in collaboration with the
World Bank and the IMF and it will implement its poverty reduction strategy within that framework.
The main objectives are to achieve GDP growth rate of 5 percent in 2001 and 6 percent in 2002-04 and to
limit inflation to 8 percent in 2001 and 5 percent in 2002-04. While a critical examination of the
assumptions behind the current policies that aim to achieve stable economic growth is beyond the scope
of this review, it should be emphasized that the program for the education sector has assumed an annual
growth-rate of 6 percent (consistent with World Bank/IMF projections) over the planned period
(2001/02-2004/05) and an inflation rate of 5 percent.
Minerals and agricultural products are Sierra Leone's main traditional exports; as such, both
commodities are susceptible to fluctuations in international prices. While mineral exports were an
important source of growth and contributed significantly to government revenues and foreign exchange
reserves prior to the civil war, they have been virtually nonexistent since the rebel attacks on the rutile
and bauxite mines in 1995. Revenues from the export of minerals (rutile and bauxite) represented about
90 percent of official exports of goods in the early 1990s. Given the huge financial requirements in the
post-conflict period, and the slow recovery of exports, Sierra Leone's reliance on donor support has been
large.
Table 1 - Key Annual Economic Indicators 1996-2000
''"  >2-4              .             1996      1997       Mg_  __      9 _20_0_
GDP at market prices (Le. Billion)       874.7    816.9     1,035 0   1,300.2      1,484.6
Real GDP Growth (%)                       5.0     -17.6       -0.8      -8.1          3.8
Consumer price inflation (ave. %)         23.1     14.9       35.5      36.7         10.0
Population (mullion)                      4.3       4.4        4.6       4.7         4.7
Current account balance (US$ million)   -161.6    -27.5      -66.2     -33.8       -112.3
Total extemal debt (US$ million)         1,179     1,144     1,256      1,249       1,301
Extemal debt service ratio, due (%)       45 3      19.5      27.5      29 9         52.0
Exchange rate (ave. Le:US$)              920.7    981.5     1,563.6   1,804.2      1,923.8
*Source. The Economist Intelligence Unit 2001
- 66 -



Table 2 - Source of GDP 2000
GDP at Producers/Market Prices by Sector (at current price)
brputed
Financial niport Duties
Services Charges 6%
14%e                 - 1%<
'  --: >   ~   ~ AgriculturE
Industry--
26%
Source: National Accounts of Sierra Leone (1990-2000), CSO
Unlike the FCFA zone group of countries which have a unified monetary policy, Sierra Leone can
effectively use monetary policy as an instrunent to stabilize the economy against external shocks. This
also provides the country with an instrument to stabilize the inflation rate. Moreover, it has, at its
disposal, fiscal policy instruments (tax and expenditure policies) to fight the effects of external policy
shocks. The country's total domestic revenue remains low at 11 percent of GDP (2000) and this low
revenue base limits the Government's ability to finance much-needed investments in the social sectors
and in basic infrastructure.
For the next four years (2001-2005), the growth rate of the economy is projected at 6.0 percent in
comparison to an average of -5.7 percent over the past three years. Since the budget allocation for the
education sector is based on the growth rate of the government budget (the growth rate of which is
closely correlated with that of the GDP), there is a strong possibility that the total amount allocated to the
education sector may be reduced if the economy goes into a decline. The implications for the
government budget (assumed to grow at an annual rate of 6 percent) and for the education sector are
serious and could put the future financial viability of the sector in jeopardy, especially if the growth rate
slows down further due to civil unrest. A return to conflict could lead to a reallocation of resources
towards security-related expenditures thereby reducing the resources available for the education sector.
-67 -



Government resources are currently limited and it is highly likely that the demand for education
resources will increase as incentives are expanded to include all primary students and schools in areas
that have, until now, been inaccessible. Potential HIPC ftmding could be an important potential resource
for supporting the recurrent cost of education. The EU is currently providing some support to the
Government for covering recurrent cost of education. This assistance totaled approximately US$ 8.0
million for the six month period from July to December 2000.
Demographic Context
The last census conducted in Sierra Leone dates back to 1985, and the new census is scheduled to take
place in 2002. The 1985 national census counted a population of 3.5 million, reflecting an annual growth
rate of 2.3 percent during 1974-85. The 1997 population was estimated at approximately 4.4 million.
According to the UN, 1.6 million people were displaced within the country in 1996 with 370,000
refugees in neighboring countries; 530,000 refugees fled Sierra Leone after the 1997 coup, and a further
237,000 have left as a consequence of the renewed fighting since February 1998.
Table 3 - Key Population Indicators in Sierra Leone 1970-1998
Q, -            - . - s , !  q  ,7  1970-7   .     1980-85I          1993-98:
Total population (mid-year, million)      2.9               3.6               4.9
Growth rate (annual average, %)           2.0               2.0               2.0
Urban population (% of total)             21.4             26.9               35.3
Total fertility rate                      6.5               6.5               6.0
*Source: World Development Indicators 2000
Education Sector Analysis
Coverage: We do not have specific data on the returns to primary education in Sierra Leone, but we
know, in general, that what holds for comparable countries holds also for Sierra Leone. The country is
characterized by a dual economy with modem sector that is limited in size, while most of the
employment is, and will remain during the next two decades, in the traditional (agricultural and informal)
sector. For this sector, we know that the enhancement of labor productivity depends crucially on human
capital and that primary education is the most cost-effective investment to this end; given the diversity
and simplicity of the tasks to be performed. Furthermore, labor productivity, the estimates of growth
models made in the Africa context (Mingat & Tan, 1997) show that primary schooling is the socially
most profitable investment in countries at the same level of development as Sierra Leone.
The coverage of primary education in the country (see Tables 4, 5 and 6) has been estimated for the year
2000. The GER has been estimated at about 51 percent while only 38 percent of an age group currently
reach primary Grade 6. These figures underscore the need for significant investment in primary
education since, it has been shown that it is necessary to validate at least 6 years of primary education at
young ages in order to best retain literacy in adult life.
- 68 -



Table 4 - GER (%) by Level of Schooling, Gender, Geographic Location and Region, 2000
Primar education        Lower secondary education  Upper secondar education
Global                    63ry                    16.2                       9 ary
Boys                      69.3                    17.6                      1.6
Girls                     57.3                    14.8 __2 1
Urban                     94.3                    30.7                      4.2
Rural                     52.3                     9.5                     I_.0
Region North              42.4                    13 0                      1.6
Boys                      50.8                    14.3                      I.I
Girls                     33.6                    11.4                      2.1
Region East               52.4                     8.5                      1.0
Boys                      57.6                    10.3                       0
Girls                     47.0                     6.4                      1.4
Region South              76.0                     7.7                      1.4
Boys                      78.6                     7.3                      1.7
Girls                     72.9                     7 4                      1.0
Region West              112.3                    35.9                      5.6
Boys                     118.5                    39.3                      5.8
Girls                    106.7                    32 4                      5.4
Table 5 - Entry Rate in Primary Grade 1 by Gender, Geographic Location and Region
% access to Primary Grade I
Total                                                          51.9
Boys                                                           55.4
Girls                                                          48.0
Urban                                                          73.3
Rural                                                          42 4
North                                                          34.7
East                                                           42.8
South                                                          58.1
West                                                            85.0
Table 6 - Pattern of Retention in Primary Schooling (%)
Grade to        Cumulative           Schooling         Proportion (%)
grade                                profile            of repeaters
Grade I                            100                  52                  24
Grade 2           91                91                 47                    8
Grade 3           93                85                 44                    7
Grade 4           94                79                 41                    6
Grade 5           94                75                  39                   4
Grade 6           92                70                  36                   7
Equity: Equity concerns are central to the Project, and they are addressed in two respects:
i.      The above figures on education coverage are averages for the country.         Regional
disparities did- exist before the war, but the war has clearly exacerbated them. In 2000, while
only 38 percent of an age group completes at least six years of education at the country level, this
- 69 -



is the case of 70 percent in the West province but of only 25 percent in the North and in the East
(see Tables 7, 8 and 9). The figures for rural girls in these two provinces show that about 15
percent of them actually complete the minimum of six years of schooling needed for literacy
retention in adult life. This Project targets the rehabilitation of schools, while it aims to work
with NGOs, missions and communities to address this imbalance.
ii.      A second dimension of equity addressed by the Project consists in providing education
and training opportunities for the youth ages 14 to 20 that have been prevented from going to
school when they were of an age to do so, due to the war (about two-thirds of the those in this
age-group find themselves in these circumstances). It is felt that there is a need to somehow
provide a second chance to this young population both on the grounds of efficiency and equity.
It should be stressed that the Project, with its focus on both the coverage of primary schooling and on
equity aspects, is very much in line with the objectives of the I-PRSP that aims to: a) foster economic
growth; while b) helping those who are currently excluded to be empowered to benefit from the new
opportunities.
Table 7 - Model Accounting for access to Grade 1 and retention Grades 1-6
Access to Grade I                        Retention Grades 1-6
Model I Model 2 | Model 3     Model 4    Model 5    Model 6    Model 7    Model 8
Intercept           -63      -09e37  -0.666 ee   1.183 eeo  1.169 *ec  0.860 0**  0.367 (ns)  0.618 
Boy                          0 402              0 423 e               0.229 (ns)             0.248 (as)
Girl                          Ref                  Ref                   Ref                   Ref
Region North         Ref      Ref                  Ref        Ref        Ref                   Ref
Region East          eee     0.320              0 143 (ns)  -0.746* 4e   1.174*4e           -1.0241
Region South        0.979    1.001              0.869 e    0.01O (ns)  - 0.017 (ns)         - 0 083 (ns)
Region West         2.361    2.013               1.617 e    0.562 e    0.205 (ns)           -0,361 (ns)
Urban                        0 604              0 365                  1 204                 1 068e
Rural                         Ref                  Ref                   Ref                   Ref
20 % poorest                            Ref                                         Ref        Ref
Q2                                   0 081 (ns)                                   0.377 (ns)
Q3                                   0 711 eee                                    0.760 ee
.0590 ee                                     0 412 4
Q4                                   1.020ee                                      0.780e
20 % nchest                          2.118ee     1.200                            1.346ao    0 588
Nber observations   2 957    2 957     2 957      2 957       809        809        809        809
x2 Likelihood ratio  468 "   525 ee   365    e   608               e 34  e  66 e   25    e    70 e
Somers' D           0.420    0.462     0 382   |  0.501      0.265      0.370      0 236      0.393
*signSficant at 10% level, ** significant at 5 % level; ee significant at I % level; (ns) non-significant
- 70 -



Table 8 - Simulation of Access Rates to Grades 1 and 6 and of Retention Rates
Grades 1-6 by Gender, Region and Geographic Location
Total
North           East         South          West         Together
Access rate in Grade 1    35.1           43.9          59.2           85.8          51.9
Retention rate Grade 1-6  73.1           57.9          73.3           81.4          74.0
Access rate in Grade 6    25.6           25.4          43.4           69.8          38.4
Boys
North           East         South          West         Together
Access rate in Grade 1    39.2           48.8          63.6           88.3          55.6
Retention rate Gradel-6   74.1           59.6          74.4           82.4          75.0
Access rate in Grade 6    29.1           29.0           47.3          72.8           41.7
Girls
North           East         South          West         Together
Access rate in Grade 1    30.2           38.9          53.9           83.3          48.2
Retention rate Gradel-6   71.0           55.4          71.3           80.2          74.0
Access rate in Grade 6    21.4           21.6          38.4           66.8          35.7
Urban Boys                      -,
|    North           East         South          West         Together
Access rate in Grade 1    52.2           60.2          75.2           89.8          77.0
Retention rate Grade 1-6  87.1           72.3          86.9           85.3          83.4
Access rate in Grade 6    45.5           43.5          65.3           76.6          64.2
Rural Boys
North |_East            |     South         West         Together
Access rate in Grade I    37.3           45.1          62.0           82.2          47.0
Retention rate Gradel-6   71.7           45.9          71.4           67.8          66.3
[Access rate in Grade 6   26.8           20.7           44.3          55.8           31.2
_________, __                 Urban  Girls    ,_,_|
North           East         South          West         Together
Access rate in Grade 1    42.1           50.1          66.7           85.1          77.0
Retention rate Gradel-6   85.1           68.0          84.9           82.9          80.4
|Access rate in Grade 6   35.9           34.1           56.6          70.6           61.9
I       I                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~Rural Girls 
l             l   ~~~~~~North  |   East     |    South    |    West      |  Together   |
Access rate in Grade I    28.4           35.4           52.1          75.3           38.5
Retention rate Grade 1-6  67.4           40.5          67.0           63.1           60.9
|Access rate in Grade 6   19.1           14.3           34.9          47.5           23.4
-71 -



Table 9 - Access Rates to Grade 1 and 6 by Gender, Geographical Location and Income
} - :- .Urban                                    Pl-u-ra kl - 
20% Richest    Q3-Q4     40 % Poorest  20% Richest    Q3-Q4      40 % Poorest
Access t Boys           88.2         71.6         56.3          77.3        54.0         37.7
de      I rls            83.1        62.8         46.4          69.5        44.1         28.9
_______ I  ogether      85.7        67.2         51.3          73.4         49.1         33.3
Retention B              84.8        82 0         77.6          73.0        68.1         61.2
Grades 1- irls           81.9        78.5         73.2          67.9        62.5           .9
6        Together        83.3        80.2         75.4          70.4        65.3         58.0
t Boys            74.8        58.7         43.7           56.4        36.8         23.0
acdes6 to ris            68.1        49.2         34.0          47.1        27.6          15.9
Grade 6   ogether       71.4        54.0         38.8          51.8         32.2         19.5
FiLyure 1                                                     Fieure 2
Crapit 3 . Access rote i, CrGde I by Ceodre,CeogrGoph1tI ores ond  GCrpb 4 Rete.tIisg CG-del -6 by Gender, C-ographiol resa sd
Income group                                                 Intome group
100 0%                                                       100 0%
900%                                                         900%
6 700%   \>E   # "N                          '7 S~~~~~         ~     ~~00%  .
$ 00 _ 50%
D00%                                                        * 00%
600%                                                        3700%
Urb o..Njb                      . UrYo Ur n  tt  Bal RrJUo                ra   ron    Rrl    R a    tr
a50 0%                                           F
40 0%--Ob0%
300 2%       Q3-Q                                            00%
20 0%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500
I10 0%
0 0%                                                         30094A
UsosUrb- ,b  Urb.o  Rors   Rural  Rars                        Urban  Wonue  Meno  Roro  Roro  Roro
20%   Q3-Q4  40 %   20%   Q3-Q4  40 %                         20%  Q3-Q4  40 %   20%   Q3 -Q4  40 %
Ritches      poorest Rhest       Poorest                     Richest       Poorta RWchert     Poort
Groups                                                       Groups
Figure 3
Graph 5: Access rate 1n GrAde 6 by Gender, Ceogrppbkel area oad
In comse group
90 0%
0 00%11
700%
100X0I
60  
2 so00%
300% -
20 0%
100%
Urh n  Ueb.n  Urb.n  R rro  R..-t  R..es
20%   Q3-Q4  40 %   20%   Q3-Q4   40%
Rehesht Pooecal Rji               P
Gr.. ps
Investing in the basic quality of services provided: Student learning is the real outcome of education
services and we know (among other things from research on growth models), furthermore, that being in
- 72 -



school has a limited impact if the students do not acquire the expected learning from the designed
curriculum. In order to promote student learning, education policies must ensure a favorable learning
environment. However, we also know, at the same time, that there can be only a loose relationship
between the amount of resources mobilized at the school level and what students will actually learn. In
particular, a high level of expenditure per pupil may mean wasting public resources both because the
production of learning is characterized by a pattern of diminishing returns and because the transformation
of resources into effective student learning may not be maximized. The thrust of the project design is to
provide only the basic kit of school inputs that research has proved to be most cost-efficient (textbooks,
in-service teacher training, class size of 40 pupils and simple school buildings). Moreover, the Project
promotes the appropriation of the schools by the communities through the introduction of SMCs because,
it has been shown (in Mali, Senegal, and Niger) that parental control of schools had a positive impact on
student learning (both through a closer supervision of teachers and greater involvement of the parents in
the education of their children); the resources needed to establish these SMCs makes it a very
cost-efficient instrument.
Improving the management of the system: The bulk of sector work on education conducted over the
last three years at the Bank highlights the importance of management in the development and
maintenance of an efficient and equitable system of education. In the case of Sierra Leone, two
important aspects are considered in the Project:
i. The first concerns the means of education delivery with two contradictory objectives. One is to
help the system recover as quickly as possible ensuring efficiency and equity; the second is to help
the Government of Sierra Leone to gain control over the system and its evolution in the
medium-term. Traditionally in Sierra Leone, churches and communities have been providers of
education (this tendency has increased in the times of war); moreover, the experience of some
countries (including Togo or Tanzania) shows that the management of publicly-financed schools by
the private sector may be positive from an economical and a pedagogical stand point. The Project
has willingly supported the Government's aim to support this approach of having most
publicly-financed schools run by missions and private organizations. However, the Bank has also
stressed the need for the MEST to maintain the control over the system through a variety of
mechanisms, from regulations, financing schemes and the allocation of teachers and
textbooks/pedagogical materials.  The Project supports this common understanding and the
mechanisms to set the arrangements in place.
ii. The second consists of equipping the MEST with a good system of education statistics (both at
the central and decentralized levels) and with the capacity to use them for managing and monitoring
the system.
Finally, it should be stressed that the content, activities and objectives of the Project are very much in
line with the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) that aim to help countries achieve coverage of at
least six years of primary schooling for all (including girls and the poor) associated with a reasonable
level of learning by the students.
Fiscal Impact
The Project accompanies the development program of education in the country. It is geared, in large
part, towards building a system of schooling that would produce the adequate human capital necessary
for the economic and social development of the country while, at the same time, being financially
sustainable.  Currently, Sierra Leone is characterized both by a relatively low fiscal pressure
(Government revenues amount only to II percent of GDP) and a relatively large proportion of that
- 73 -



revenue (31 percent) devoted to education. The relatively low fiscal capacity of the country is a result of
the war and should, over time, return to normal with a figure of around 15 percent. The proportion of
recurrent spending devoted to education is high and denotes a real priority of the country for the
education sector. However, it is not certain that this high level of commitment will remain strong when
other claims on public resources become more pressing.
It is important to determine the extent to which the Government's program (universal primary education,
progressively universal lower secondary education and the production of graduates in vocational and
higher education to match, in quantity and quality, the demands of the economy as it develops) is likely
to be financially sustainable. It is impossible to make such a deternination at this time. However, the
estimates made in the context of the costing of UPE (Universal Primary Education) in all IDA countries
points to the likelihood that the program will be financially sustainable. Assuming that: a) the
Government revenues, over time, represent 15 percent of the GDP; b) 28 percent of recurrent spending
will be allocated to the education sector; c) 50 percent of recurrent expenditure for the sector is allocated
to primary education (a figure that is believed to leave enough resources for reasonable policies in
post-primary education); and d) some relatively easy to implement policies concerning the operation of
the system (in particular, maintaining the level of teacher salaries at about 3.5 times the per capita GDP
of the country), the simulation model indicates that UPE (what the Project is currently supporting) is
sustainable in terms of recurrent expenditure. There is, however, a gap in total financing of the sector as
nothing remains for investment costs. In this scenario, almost all capital cost would have to be borne by
external sources.
- 74 -



Table 10 - Simulation Model to Achieve Universal Primary Education (Scenario 1-4)*
2000           2015          2015           2015                2015
DP (million)                                     1 330 564       5.0%           5 0%     _     5 0%                5 0%
DP/Capita                                         264 473     _
xchange rate                                       2 098
otal Population (thousands)                        5 031          2 3%          2 3%           2 3%                2 3%
% School age population in total population         17 1%         17 1%         17 1%           17 1%               17 1%
chool age population (in thousands)                 862                                                   _
Govemment total domestic revenues (million)        152 175
iscal Pressure (%)                                 11 4%         11 4%          11 4%          16 0%               16 0%
ecurrent spending on education as proportion of
ovemment revenues                                 30 4%          30 4%         30 4%          28.0%                28 0%
pending on primary education as % of total spending
on education                                       51 3%         51 3%          51 3%          50 0%               50 0%
rotal recurrent spending for education (million)    46 325                           .
Fotal spending on education as % of GDP             3 48%
Fotal available resources for primary education     23 742                                                 _
Number of students enrolled in primary schooling (S
or 6    vears)                                     548 059
% repeaters in prsmary schooling                   9.3%
iross enrollment ratio                             63 6%          109%           109%           109%                109%
Number of students enrolled is public primary
:ducation                                          548 059
umber of teachers in public primary education
(Rrade I to 5 or 6)                                13 841
itrntion rate ofteachers                                          3 5%           3 5%           3 5%                3 5%
Category I Teachers Total number                    13 841  =
Category 2 Teachers Total number                      0
upil-Teacher Ratio in public pnmary education
average grade I to 5 or 6)                          39 6           39 6          40 0           40 0                40 0
Number of students enrolled in private pnmary
:dt0cation                                           O
4 increase/year in the number of students enrolled m
private pnimarv education                                          2 3%          2 3%           2 3%                 2 3%
Share of enrollments in private schools (%)        0 0%            _.
Average yearly salary/per capita GDP                 4 2
Category I Teachers Average yearly salary/per
capisaGDP                                          42             42            42              42                  42
Category 2 Teachers Average yearly salary/per
capitaGDP                                          42             42             42             42                  35
% spending on other than Teacher Salary             49 6%         49 6%          50 0%          50 0%               50 0%
ublic Subsidy for private schools (million)
Public Subsidy per enrollment in private education                   0             0              0                   0
ecurrent public spending on primary education
(million)                                           23 742
Capital cost of classroom construction              2000
Unit cost of a furnished and equipped classroom,
mncluding latrines (Thousands)                   1 330 564          14 000         14 000          14 000                   14 00
Number of teachers per classroom                264 473              I 00           I 00           I 00                     I 0
Scenario 1. Implies no change in the current spending trends, Scenano 2 Implies increase in quality, Scenario 3 Implies increase in quantity and
resources, scenario 4 Implies increase in quality, resources and efficiency
- 75 -



Table 12 - Summary of Possible Scenarios
'F ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~~~EN
I~: -SIR-  * --;   - ,I-I;  .                               Quidty ,  .R  oure U
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                           1 ' ' I  fi..*i  . - .Qi 
-  .  ~  ~             ~iiy~       ItOiources    ~   +EffidestC
Total cumulative of current expenditures (million LCU)              242 352       238 231     139 397            57 045
rotal cumulative of investment expenditures (million LCU)           300 611       295 299    295 176            293 419
Total cumulative for current expenditures needs (million LCU)          115           114        66                 27
otal cumulative investment needs (million LCU)                         143          141         141                140
Annual average current expenditure needs (US$ million)                 7 7          7.6         4.4                1 8
Annual averase investment needs (US$ million)                          96           9.4         9.4                9.3
|Annual average Total expenditure needs (US$milion)                    173          170         13.8               11.1
Table 13 - Simulation Model to Achieve Universal Primary Education (Scenario 4)
- . .-..         F       , .,  -  .      -                     ,                    ,   , .L~
* -   -                                                   Base                 Yr-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ose of proleetk
^ o '  , _ 3 z _ k Ye /rOlecti ~~~~~~~~~~~noon 
2000          2005          2010         2015
Public Finance                                                                       ___
GDP (million)                                                                       1 330 564     1698 174     2 167 348    2 766146
GDP/Capita                                                                          264 473        300 938      342 430      389 643
Total Population (thousands)                                                          5 031         5 643        6 329        7 099
Govemment total domestic revenues (million)                                          152 175       220048       313 809      442 583
Fiscal Pressure (%)                                                              114%          13 0%/0       14 5%        16 0%/6
Recurrent spending on education as proportion of Government revenues             304%          29.6%        28 8%         28 0%/,
Total recurrent spending for education (million)                                     46 325        65 196        90 421       123 923
Spending on pnmary education as % of total spending on education                 51 3%         50 8%        504%          50 0%/6
otat available resources fir pnmary education ( milion)                             23 742        33 142        45 588       61 962
ublic resources for pnmary education as % of GDP                                    1 78%          1 95%        2.10%        2 24%
Pubic recurrent spending for pnmary education
chool age population (Thousands)                                                      862           966          1 083        1 214
s enrollment ratio                                                                64%           79%           94%          109%
lumberof students enrolled in pnmary schooling (5 or6years)                         548 059       761 569      1018 695     1326 860
umber of students enrolled in pnvate pnmary education                                 0              0            0            0
hare of enrollments in private schools ('/)                                          0%0/           0%           0/0         0%
umberofasiudents enrolled in public pnmary education                               548 059        761 569     1 018 695    1326 860
il-Teacher Ratio in public pnmar education (averas grde I to 6)                    39 6          39 7          39 9         400
umber of teachers in public pnmary education (grade I to 6)                         13 841 i      19 168       25 553        33 171
yvera  early salary/per capita GDP                                                   4 2           3.9           3 8          3 7
Annual teacher salary (Thousands)                                                     I1I           1 181        1 289         1 430
nnual teacher salaty bill (Thousands)                                                15 374        22 629        32 949       47 450
Recurrent spending on other than Teacher Salary bill (million)                       7 622          11 250       16 428       23 725
/0 spending on other than Total recurrent spending ('A)                              33 1%         33 2%         33 3%        33 3%
Recurrent public spenduingon primary education (million)                             22 996        33 880        49 377       71 175
Per pil spndin in public education (thousands)                                       42 0          44 5          48 5         53 6
'rpupil spending in public education (PCGDP tmit)                                   0 16           0 15         0.14         0 14
otlsubsidy for pnmary pnvate education (million)                                     0             0             0            0
otal recurrent spending for pnmary education (million)                              22 996        33 880        49 377       71 175
otalrecurrent spending on pnmary education as % of GDP                              173%          2 00%         2 28%        2 57%
lassroom construction
Sumber of physical classroom                                                        13 841         19 168       25 553       33 171
umber of additional classrooms per year over the period                                            1 065        1 277_        1 524
roaspendingfor classroom construction                                                            14 916        17 878         . 21 331
ip.Resources - Expenditure (in millions)
iapnm current spendng                                     _                                     -738         -3 789       -9 213
iaLnm capital spernng per year                                                                 -14 916      -17 878       -21 331
1otal Expenditure Gap                                                                           15 654       -21668       -30 544
*Scenaro 4 implies spending trends needed to achieve UPE by 2015
- 76 -



Summary of benefits and costs:
N/A
Main Assumptions:
N/A
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
N/A
- 77 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
Years Ending
IMPLEMENTAT1ON PERIOD
| Year I     Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4   | Year 5     Year6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           6.8       10.0       8.0        8.0       8.4       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.1        0.2        0.2       0.2       0.2        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs          6.9       10.2       8.2       8.2        8.6       0.0       0.0
,Total Financing             6.9       10.2        8.2       8.2       8.6        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  3.4        4.7        3.9       4.0       4.0       0.0        0.0
Govemment                 0.4        0.4        0.4       0.4       0.5       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiersAfDB         3.4        3.6        2.4       3.5       3.5       3.6        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing     7.2        8.7       6.7        7.9       8.0       3.6       0.0
Main assumptions:
Main assumptions:
Implementation period in months per calendar year is: 12,12,12,12,12
- 78 -



Pro ject Financing BY Donors                      Percentage Financing
IDA     AfDB     GOSL
Component 1.1. Complete Grants for 500 Primary Schools
Pnmary schools constructed/rehabilitated                               50      50        0
School funmiture (number of desk and chair per student)                50      So        0
Set of textbooks                                                       50      50        0
SMC                                                                    50       50       0
Untrained teachers to be trained                                       33       67       0
Teacher's guide for textbooks                                          50       S0       0
Teachers' module                                                       50       50       0
Teacher's peace education toolkit                                      50       So       0
Component 1.2. Partial Grants for 650 Primary Schools
Set of textbooks                                                       42       58       0
Teacher to be trained (20% in each of 650 schools)                     50       S0       0
Teacher's guide for textbooks                                          50       50       0
Teachers' module                                                       50       50       0
Teacher's peace education toolkit                                      50       50       0
Component 13. Complete Grants for 100 JSS
Junior Secondary School constructed/rehabilitated                      50       50       0
School fumiture (number of desk and chair per student)                 50       50       0
Set of textbooks                                                       50       50       0
SMC                                                                    50       50       0
Untrained teachers to be trained                                       50       S0       0
Teacher's guide for textbooks                                          50       50       0
Teachers' module                                                       50       50       0
Teacher's peace education toolkit                                      50       50       0
Component 1.4. Partial Grants for 90 JSS
Set of textbooks                                                       50       50       0
Teachers to be trained                                                 50       50       0
Teacher's guide for textbooks                                          50       50       0
Teachers' module                                                       50       50       0
Teacher's peace education toolkit                                      50       50       0
Component 2.1: Project Coordination Unit
A Awareness camaign (IEC)                                              50       50       0
B. Long-Term Technical Assistance
Project Director (PCU Director)                                    100       0        0
National Technical Coordinator                                     100       0        0
Partnership Program Coordinator                                    100      0         0
Capacity Development Specialist -                                   0       100       0
C. Office Equipment                                                    =
I Desktop                                                           0       100      0
2. Laptops                                                          0       100       0
3. Laser Pnnter                                                     0       100       0
4 Color Inklet Pnnter                                               0       100       0
5. Overhead Projector                                               0       100       0
6 Mobile Phones                                                     0       100       0
7. Electnc Generator 25kva                                          0       100       0
8 4x4 Long wheel-base vehicles                                      0       100       0
9. 4x4 short wheel-base vehicles                                    0       100       0
10. Photocopier                                                     0       100      0
- 79 -



D. Office Furniture                                                                    _
1. Office Desks+chairs                                               0       100       0
2 File cabmets/cupboards                                              0      100       0
3 Meetings table with 12 chairs                                       0      100       0
E. Various short-term Consultancles
1. Annual Financial Audit                                            O       100       0
2. Annual Procurement Audit                                          100      0        0
I1. Recurrent Costs
A. Coordination overhead                                                 45      45       10
B Support Secretanal Staff                                               45      45       10
C. MailPhone/intemetlConsumables                                         45      45       10
D Vehicle and equipment maintenance                                      45      45       10
E. Field supervision visits                                              45      45       10
Component 2.2: Strengthening of MEST Core Management Funetions
1. Investment Costs                                                            _
A. Support to Flnance/Procurement Directorate /a
1. Procurement Specialist                                            100      0        0
2 Financial Specialist                                               100      0        0
3 Financial Controller                                                0       0        0
4 Traimng workshops on Financial and Proc Procedures                 50      50        0
5. Financial Mgmt System Assessment                                   0       0        0
6. Financial Mgmt System development                                  0       0        0
7. Equipment
Desktop+UPS                                                          50      50        0
4x4 Long wheel base vehicles                                          0       0        0
Laser Printer                                                        50      50        0
Photocopier                                                          50      50        0
8. Office ftrniture
Office table+chair
7'x3 file cupboard                                                    0       0        0
Steel file cabinets (4drawers)                                        0       0        0
Visitor chairs                                                        0       0        0
B. Support to Planning Directorate
1. Civil works/Architect Engineer                                     0      100       0
2. Planning System Development                                       50       50       0
3. Equipment for Civil Works Unit.                                                .
Desktop (with 20" momtor)                                        50       50       0
Laser Pnnter                                                     50       50       0
Full scale digitizer                                             50       50       O 
Photocopier                                                      50       50       0
Color Scanner                                                    50       50       0
GIS Software                                                     50       50       0
Hand-held GPS units                                              50       50       0
Color Inkiet Pnnter                                              50       50       0
Mobile Phones                                                    50       50       0
4x4 Double Cabin Pickup                                          50       50       0
4. Equipment for Planning Division
Desktop+UPS                                                      50      50        0
Laser Prnter                                                     50      50        0
Photocopier                                                      50       50       0
4x4 short wheel base                                             50       50       0
5. Staff Training                                                    50       50       0
- 80 -



6. Office furniture
Office table+chair                                             50      50        0
7x3 file cupboard                                              50      50        0
Steel file cabinets (4drawers)                                 50      50        0
Visitor chairs                                                 50      50        0
C. Support to Personnel Directorate
1. Personnel Management Specialist                                  0      0        0
2. Personnel Mgmt System Assessment                                 0       0        0
3. Personnel Mgmt System Development                                0       0        0
4. Equipment
Desktop+UPS                                                     50     50        0
Laser Pnnter                                                    50     50        0
Photocopier                                                    50      50        0
5. Office furniture                       _
Office table+chair                                              0       0        0
7x3 file cu board                                               0       0        0
Steel file cabinets (4drawers)                                  0       0        0
Visitor chairs                                                  0       0        0
6. Staff traininp                                                   0       0        0
D. Establishment of EMIS
1. EMIS Specialist                                                  0       0        0
2. Statistician                                                     0       0        0
3. Annual School Survey                                            50      50        0
4. Information needs Assessment & system design                     0       0        0
5. Publication and dissemination of EMIS data                       0       0        0
6. Training In EMIS                                                 0       0        0
7. Equlpment/Software
Desktop+UPS                                                     0       0        0
4x4 Short wheel-base vehicle                                    0       0        0
Laptops                                                         0       0        0
Laser Pnnter                                                    0       0        0
Scanner                                                         0       0        0
Photocopier                                                     0       0        0
Local Area networking                                           O       O        O
Off the shelf software                                          0       0        0
E. Unallocated for various training and studies                         0      100      0
F. Equipment for Directorates
1. Desktop+UPS                                                      0      100       0
2. Laser Pnnters                                                    0      100       0
11. Recurrent Costs
A. For Flnanclal/Procurement Directorate
Mail/Phone/lntemet/Consumables                                      45     45        1O
Field supervision visits                                            45     45        10
B. For Civil Works Unit of Planning Directorate
Field supervision visits                                            45     45        10
MaillPhone/lntemet/Consumables                                      45     45        10
Vehicle and equipment maintenance                                   45     45        10
C. For Planning Directorate
Field supervision visits                                            45     45        10
MaiUPhone/intemet/Consumables                                       45     45        10
Vehicle and eqlupment maintenance                                   45     45        10
D. For Personnel Directorate                                            =
Field supervision visits                                            45     45        10
MaidPhone/intemet/Consumables                                       45     45        10
- 81 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
Procurement
Procurement Environment
1.    The World Bank has not prepared a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) or a
Country Portfolio Performance Report for Sierra Leone during the last ten years. The conflict that has
gripped the country has eroded the effectiveness of public sector management and destroyed the
efficiency of public institutions, including public procurement practices. The Government, however,
with the assistance of private consulting firms has carried out some studies on public procurement
practices. These studies have been taken into account in assessing the procurement environment and
capacity in Sierra Leone.
2.     The current procurement practices for goods, works and services as described in the Finance Act
of 1963 are deficient, outdated and unable to meet the country's current needs. Efficient public
procurement systems are necessary to check against corruption, and are a means of ensuring value for
money, and are able to respond to the demands of a democratic culture that requires that the use of public
funds be explained to the public. The studies cite: (i) the lack of a comprehensive legal framework; (ii)
the lack of uniform and codified procurement procedures and regulations; (iii) the weak capacity of
procurement staff; and (iv) loose institutional and organizational arrangements for defining
responsibilities and accountabilities, and for collective decision-making in awarding of contracts, as
major factors contributing to weaknesses in the public procurement practices. All of the studies
recommended public procurement reforms.
3.     From the review of procurement practices in on-going Bank-financed projects, Bank staff have
identified unacceptable practices, including: (i) the extensive use of sole source method for selection of
consultants, and for the procurement of goods and works; (ii) extensive and repetitive use of shopping
procedures, often including the same firms; (iii) unclear procedures for the opening of bids and criteria
for bid evaluation and contract awards, (iv) post-contract negotiations, (v) mandatory use of the state
insurance company for goods contracts; and (vi) over-centralization of procurement processing in the
Central Tender Board (CTB). The CTB is responsible for advertising, opening and evaluation of bids,
and for awarding of contracts. These activities should be the responsibility of the procuring entities, as
the CTB should only be advising and adjudicating/approving proposed contract awards referred to it by
procuring entities.
4.     The CTB is overloaded and overwhelmed by its current responsibilities. Government ministries
are already complaining about the CTB's inefficiency. Nevertheless, procurement is not wholly
centralized as procurement processing for some public agencies, donor-financed projects and for
government agencies in the Regions and Districts is not carried out by the CTB. For donor-financed
projects, procuring entities use both World Bank and other donor procurement guidelines alongside
government procurement practices.  Such a situation exposes the country to potential problems,
particularly when the country is required to depend on its own procurement practices. Procurement
under this Project will be processed by the Procurement Unit established during project preparation
within MEST but contract awards above a defined threshold may be cleared with the CTB, if so agreed.
5.     Sierra Leone's procurement procedures and regulations are scattered among the various Ministry
of Finance (MOF) circulars, which are often' not clear, are often contradictory and subject to
- 82 -



misinterpretations. The Government has realized there is a need for the country to review and reform its
public procurement practices. The World Bank has agreed to support public procurement reforms by
making funds available from the Transport Sector Project. The Bank has recommended to the
Government that it establish a Steering Committee in the MOF to oversee the implementation of reforms.
The Committee would select consultants to prepare (in consultation with stakeholders in the public and
private sector) a Procurement Reforms Proposal for submission to Government by possibly, the last
quarter of 2002. It is expected that a new procurement code and law would the be implemented in 2003.
In the meantime for Bank-financed projects, procurement procedures will be described in a PIM.
6.     The procurement procedures agreed for this project will also apply for all procurement matters
under MEST. These procurement procedures are described in the operational manual included in the
PIM. Both of these documents have been revised and agreed upon before negotiations.
Use of Bank Guidelines
7.     Contracts for works, goods and consulting services to be financed under the Project would be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January
1995 and as revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultants will
be selected in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers January 1997 and as revised September 1997 and January 1999, and May 2002. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will include: (a) an explicit statement to bidders of the
evaluation and award criteria; (b) national advertising with public bid opening; (c) award to the lowest
evaluated responsive and qualified bidder; and (d) foreign bidders would not be precluded from
participation in NCB.
8.     The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) will be used for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) (and with appropriate amendments for all NCB) for goods. The Bank's Standard Request
for Proposals (SRFP) would be used for all consulting assignments. Less competitive bidding and
selection procedures, should not be used as an expedient to by-pass more competitive methods.
Fractioning of large procurements into smaller ones should not be done to allow use of less competitive
methods. The detailed procedures to be followed will be described in the PIM. Domestic preference will
be allowed for ICB contracts, provided that there are qualified domestic manufacturers/suppliers and
contractors who could benefit from domestic preference for items to be procured under the Project.
Advertising
9.     A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and will be published in UN Development
Business as provided under the Guidelines. The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and would
show all outstanding ICB packages and all consulting services estimated to cost USD 200,000 or more.
Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be required for contracts to be procured under ICB and NCB
procedures and for consultant contracts with an estimated cost of USD 100,000 or more to obtain
expressions of interest (EOI) prior to the preparation of the shortlist. SPNs will (as a minimum) be
published in a newspaper that has wide national circulation. In addition, consultant contracts estimated
to cost USD 200,000 or more will be advertised in UN Development Business. Sufficient time would be
allowed (not less than 30 days for NCB and for EOI) to allow candidates adequate time to obtain
documents and respond appropriately.
- 83 -



Procurement Capacity
10.   Prior to project preparation, there was very little procurement capacity in the MEST (i.e. there
was neither a procurement unit, nor a tender committee). Procurement was done by any member of staff
that had responsibility for the use of funds. Contracts estimated to cost more than Le. 12 million (USD
6,000) are sent to the CTB for processing (from advertising to contract award). As indicated above, the
CTB has many shortcomings in its work, so the CTB would not efficiently process procurement for this
Project.
11.   During preparation a Procurement Unit was established within the MEST. This unit is backed up
by an independent accounting firm (KPMG has been selected through a competitive process) and will
provide the financial and procurement management of the project. Over 60 percent of the Project's
procurement would be undertaken under subprojects to be implemented by "Service Providers" (SPs). It
is not possible to access the procurement capacity of all the SPs as they cannot be identified at this stage.
However, the capacity of each SP will be assessed when it (SP) submits a subproject proposal.
Procurement Plans
12.   The Project preparation team in the MEST has prepared a Global Procurement Plan for the whole
project period and subsequent annual procurement plans would be prepared by the Procurement Unit as
part of the Project's annual work plans/budget. First year procurement plans has been finalized and
agreed with IDA during negotiations and have been incorporated into the PIM. Two months prior to the
start of each subsequent fiscal year, the Procurement Unit will submit updated versions of the Global
Procurement Plan and the following year's annual procurement plan. Participating SPs will be required
to include procurement plans in their subproject proposals. The technical team reviewing the subproject
proposals must ensure adequacy of the procurement plan before the proposal is submitted to the PSC for
review and approval. Each quarter, the MEST and the participating SPs will submit a procurement
monitoring report to the MEST as part of the Financial Management Report (FMR), to show how each
contract on the procurement plan has progressed. The PIM includes sample formats for procurement
plans.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
13.   Procurement of goods and the selection of consultants, including procurement planning, will be
the responsibility of the procurement unit at MEST and participating SPs. The Procurement Unit would
ensure that participating SPs comply with the procurement procedures in the subproject agreements.
However, the MEST may take over any NCB contracts under subprojects where the SP is determined by
the MEST not to have adequate capacity to manage NCB contracts.
14.   Procurement Unit.
The established Procurement Unit will be responsible for:
(i)    procurement planning and processing;
(ii)  supervising performance of contracts with suppliers;
(iii)  stores management;
(iv)   providing secretariat to the MEST Tender Committee;
- 84 -



(v)    assessing the procurement capacity of each SP prior to signature of subproject agreement
and making recommendations for any required improvements;
(vi)   providing procurement assistance to and capacity building/training of SP, and;
(vii)  supervising and ensuring compliance of procurement carried out by SPs using MEST
funds.
The Unit will be focal point for all procurement matters in the MEST, as well as advising the Tender
Committee on matters of procurement. Supervision of consultant contracts and civil works contracts will
be the responsibility of the appropriate Units in the MEST. Details of the Unit's responsibilities and its
structure are included in the PIM.
15.    Tender Committee. The MEST will establish a Tender Committee by January 15, 2003 which
will be Chaired by the DG/Administrator. The Membership of the Tender Committee will not exceed
seven and will include the Project Director, the Head of FPMA, two senior staff of the MEST below the
DG/Administration level and one member from the private sector experienced in public service and
preferably public procurement and the secretary from the central tender board. The Committee will be
responsible for approving all proposed contract awards above thresholds defined in the PIM, approving
the use of exceptional procurement methods and generally for dealing with procurement policy and
setting standards.
16.    Arrangements for implementation of civil works. The MEST Architect will be the manager
for the project's civil works program.  The requirements for school constructions (new  and
rehabilitations) will be part of the subproject proposals to be submitted to MEST by SPs. New schools
will be based on the already developed standard designs. A standard tender document (which includes
drawings and Bills of Quantities) has been prepared for use on all contracts for new schools. The
standard document would be updated for each site plan and foundations, appropriate to the site selected
for each school. Tender documents for major rehabilitations (estimated to cost over USD 25,000
equivalent) would require detailed preparation by a qualified architect. In all cases, construction
contracts would be on the basis of appropriate bidding documents. The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, basic specifications, Bills of Quantities, the required c6mpletion date, and
relevant drawings (where applicable).
17.   In the event that SPs do not have adequate capacity to manage procurement of works contracts
for new schools and major rehabilitations, the MEST will be responsible for managing these contracts for
new schools and major rehabilitations through two civil works management agents. For the purpose of
managing civil works for schools, the country will be divided into three zones (i.e. West and South,
North and East). The Management of works contracts in each zone would be contracted to an
architectural/civil engineering consulting firm selected competitively. The firms are referred to as Works
Management Agents (WMA). However, where an SP is assessed by the MEST to have capacity to play
the role of a WMA, the SP would be allowed to do so. The responsibilities of the WMA would be to
prepare tender documents, evaluate bids and provide periodic supervision (particularly to ensure quality
and for certifying payments to contractors) till completion.
18.    Rehabilitation of 51 number of Vocational Training Centers and Community Education Centers
(to be financed by the African Development Bank) will be implemented through sub-projcts.
19.    Arrangements for procurement under subprojects. SPs will sign contracts with MEST for
implementation of subprojects. A sample subproject agreement has been prepared and is included in the
PIM. The PIM also contains formats for preparing subproject proposals. SPs will be responsible for
- 85 -



procurement under the subprojects. In carrying out procure, SPs will follow simplified procurement
procedures, using simplified bidding documents (samples have been included in the PIM), i.e. local
shopping, local bidding and direct purchase, including procedures under "Community Participation in
Procurement".
Scope of Procurement and Procurement Methods
20.    The major part of the works contracts will be under school grants, all estimated to cost about
USD 10.8 million. Contracts for civil works will include new schools, major rehabilitations and
moderate/minor repairs (excluding cosmetic repairs) for school buildings and other minor constructions.
The objective of school rehabilitations and repairs is to make the schools functional and safe. It is also
the objective of the Project to promote the use of local labor and resources, enhance development of
small contractors and create employment for ex-combatants. In order to achieve the latter objective,
works contracts will be packaged by site. Where sites are close, to the extent possible and practical,
several sites may be combined together into single contract packages, but such contract packages should
not exceed the estimated cost of USD 200,000 equivalent.
21.    No contracts are envisaged to be procured on the basis of ICB procedures. Contracts estimated
to cost USD 50,000 to USD 200,000 equivalent would be procured by NCB. Small contracts estimated
to cost less than USD 50,000 equivalent would be procured on the basis of simplified bidding documents
(sample document will be provided in the PIM) by soliciting quotations/bids from not less than three
qualified contractors. Alternatively, such contracts may be awarded by local bidding. In all cases, the
award of contract shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price for the required work, and
who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract. Where beneficiary
communities wish to participate, simplified procedures under "Community Participation in Procurement"
will be applied.
22.    The major part of goods contracts estimated to cost about USD 5.9 million will be under school
grants to participating SPs for the purchase of school furniture, books, educational kits and teaching and
learning materials. The other part of goods contracts estimated to cost USD 250,000 for the purchase of
vehicles, office equipment, furniture and miscellaneous items of supplies will be the responsibility of the
MEST. Contracts for goods under school grants will be managed by SPs and awarded to local
manufacturers on competitive basis. In case competition is not feasible in the locality, contracts can be
on sole source basis with prior clearance of the MEST. Contracts for textbooks will follow appropriate
procurement procedures for textbooks. To the extent possible and practical, goods and equipment to be
purchased by the MEST would be combined into packages worth at least USD 100,000. Contracts
estimated to cost USD 30,000 to USD 100,000 equivalent would be procured by NCB. Procurement for
readily available off-the-shelf goods that cannot be grouped together and estimated to cost less than USD
30,000 equivalent would be procured on the basis of comparison of quotations (sample quotation form
will be provided in the PIM) from at least three eligible suppliers. Requests for and such quotations will
be in writing, and will include time and place for delivery of the quotations, a clear
description/specification and quantity of the goods; as well as requirements for delivery time, place for
the delivery of goods and where needed, installation requirements, as appropriate. Quotations will be
opened and evaluated at the same time.
23.    Alternatively, goods may also be procured from UN Agencies (e.g. IAPSO means Inter-Agency
Procurement Services Office) provided each such contract does not exceed USD 50,000). Packages will
not be split for purpose of using a less competitive method.
- 86 -



24.    Consulting Services/Training (USD 1.1 million). Major consuliing services will be selected by a
Financial/Procurement Management Agent and the PCU staff. Smaller consulting service contracts
would be for studies and training, M&E, financial and procurement audits, and for the provision of
specialized skills through technical assistance arrangements for personnel to manage specific tasks under
the Project. Consulting assignments expected to cost less than USD 100,000 equivalent may be procured
on the basis of short-lists featuring only local firms, provided a sufficient number of qualified local firms
are available and foreign consultants who wish to participate are not excluded from consideration.
Assignments in excess of USD 200,000, and specialized technical assistance assignments, must be
procured on the basis of international short-lists.
25.    As a rule, consultant services will be selected through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS)
methodology. All consulting assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of USD 100,000 or more
would be advertised in UN Development Business and in at least one newspaper with wide national
circulation. In the case of assignments estimated to cost below USD 100,000 the assignment will be
advertised nationally. Shortlists for Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of USD
50,000 may be prepared without advertising for EOI. Consulting assignments costing less than USD
50,000 may be procured by comparing the qualifications of consultants who have expressed an interest in
the assignment or who have been identified. Financial auditors, procurement auditors and civil works
consultants would be selected using Least-Cost-Selection procedures. Individual consultants will be
selected in accordance with Part V of the Guidelines for Consultants.
26.    Training Programs are geared towards building capacity, information sessions and improving
management and staff skills, including intensive teacher training. Training programs would be part of
the Project's Annual workplans to be prepared in accordance with procedures specified in the PIM.
Training programs costing USD 15,000 equivalent or more would be acquired using a competitive
procedure such as the one used for the comparison of consultants qualification and cost.
Review of procurement by the Bank
27.    All goods contracts estimated to cost USD 100,000 equivalent or more, the first two NCB goods
contracts, the first two works contracts by the MEST, the first three subproject agreements and all
subproject agreements estimated to cost more than USD 200,000 will be subject to IDA prior review.
Consultant contracts with firms estimated to cost USD 100,000 or more, the first two contracts estimated
to cost between USD 50,000 and USD 100,000, and the first two contracts with individuals will be
subject to prior review in accordance with the procedures in Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines.
TORs for all consulting assignments, single source selection and an MOU with NaCSA will be subject to
IDA prior review irrespective of value.
28.    Contracts which are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank during
project implementation and will be governed by the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to
the relevant Guidelines.
29.    Fiduciary Compliance. This Project will generate a substantial number of Community-Driven
Development (CDD) subprojects with numerous small contracts that would not be subject to Bank's
prior review. Such contracts under subprojects managed by SPs will be monitored by the MEST to
ensure performance and compliance with procurement procedures specified in the subproject agreements,
quality as well physical delivery against payments. The MEST will, by way of MOU, make extensive
use of NaCSA's field network for the supervision of contracts under subpiojects.
- 87 -



30.    Procurement Audits and Contract Management/Expenditure Reports. Annual procurement
audits will be used to report on fiduciary compliance. No later than three months after the end of each
financial year, the MEST will submit to the Bank a procurement audit report prepared by consultants
selected in accordance with the Guidelines for selection of Consultants and TORs to be incorporated in
the PIM. In addition, the MEST will prepare and submit to IDA, on a quarterly basis, contract
management and expenditure information.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
-,  . -: , . . -  .,,              ; .      -iProcurement Method''   ;
E^ xencliture.Categor^i  ; ~ -  ICB           NCB     -    O4.B.F.               Total Cost
egory  ~~________                     Other:______
1. Works                           0.00            0.00                                  0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)                      C 0       (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.20            0.00         0.30         0.40        0.90
(0.20)          (0.00)       (0.30)       (0.00)      (0.50)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00          1.10        2.60        3.70
Consultant Services and            (0.00)         (0.00)        (1.10)     (0.00)      (1.10)
Training
4. Subprojects under School        0.00            17.00         0.00        17.90       34.90
Grants
(0.00)         (17.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)     (17.00)
Non salary Operating Costs         0.00            0.00          0.30         1.20       1.50
(0.00)          (0.00)       (0.30)       (0.00)      (0.30)
PPF and Unallocated                0.00            0.00          1.10        0.00        1.10
(0.00)          (0.00)       (1.10)       (0.00)      (1. 1 0)
Total                            0.20           17.00         2.80        22.10       42.10
(0.20)         (17.00)       (2.80)       (0.00)     (20.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to: (i) managing the Project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
NBF reflects the contribution of the AfDB and GOSL.
- 88 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
z-tntiact-Valu'e y.                           ofilliik .l ;.r-bjedtt--  i 
'4- jS '  .!-     :- ;0 , -Threshold.  .                              ev erocuw,t  '  Pro Re
p  iiaif~~q  .,-"(US$,tKo6iands)'.     -3 at:(2.$million6)-
; Exp~eniitureategoi ~ r * ,-(US$:thou-sanqs) .'' 2" . .v  ,  eth.od U;  _________-____i,,_W.S_rnllir_s_'._
1. Works                  Over US$50,000              NCB                First 2 contracts
Below US$50,000           Quotations                None
2. Goods                  Over US$100,000              ICB                     All
US$30,000 to US$100,000         NCB                First 2 contracts
Below US$30,000            Shopping                 None
3. Services              Above US$ 100,000       QCBS (Int'l advert)       All contracts
US$ 50,000-100,000        QCBS or LCS            First 2 contracts
(national advert)
Individual          Individual selection  First 2 contracts over
Consultants                                     $50,000
Below 50, 000 firms           CQ
All                 Sole Source                All
4. Subprojects           Above US$200,000       Subproject procedure           All
Below US$200,000       Subproject procedure        First three
5. MOU with NaCSA               All                 Sole Source                All
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: USD 1.9 million; about
12% of all contracts.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 89 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
,Z           I,                      ou,ntIJSn  i-lion      " '- FiKancing,Percentgea A
1. Goods                                  0.50            100 for foreign expenditures, 90 for
local expenditure
2. Consultant Services and training       1.10          100 for foreign expenditure, 90 for local
expenditure
3. School grants                          17.00                        100
4. Non-salary operating costs             0.30                         90
5. Project Preparation Facility           0.45
6. Unallocated                            0.65
Total Project Costs                       20.00
Total                                     20.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
31.    Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for items of
expenditures under contracts and purchase orders below US$ 100,000 equivalent each, for works, goods,
and consulting firms, and US$ 50,000 for consultant services (individuals), training and incremental
costs for which disbursements would be based on statement of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting
documents for SOEs world be retained by the Borrower (Government of Sierra Leone) for review by IDA
missions and external auditors.
Special account:
32.    One special account would be established by the MEST/PCU, and operated in US at a
commercial bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Upon grant effectiveness, a sum of
US$ 500,000 would be deposited by IDA into the Special Account. These are the current estimnates for
the first four months of project expenditures. Further deposits would be made into the account, against
withdrawal applications supported by appropriate documentation.
Financial Management Assessment Report
33.    The objective of the Financial Management Capacity Assessment is to deternine whether the
implementing arrangements and agency within the MEST, identified as being responsible for the
financial management under the project has adequate and acceptable financial management capability to
undertake the assigned tasks. The assessment includes the review of the Agency's accounting system of
recording and reporting, funds flow mechanisms, internal controls, adequacy of staffing, monitoring and
auditing arrangements.
34.    The MEST like all other Ministries follows the Government of Sierra Leone treasury accounting
system. The MEST is allocated funds as part of the Government's approved budget, and uses the treasury
system to draw on and utilize its resources. This is done by seeking expenditure commitment from the
Controller and Accountant General's (CAGD) office prior to entering into any contract for goods and
- 90 -



services. On receipt of the said services or goods, requests for payment are sent to the CAGD who issues
check for the beneficiary. No major funds pass through the MEST, except for some recurrent
expenditures in the form of imprest.
35.    The Accounting Division of the MEST is headed by a Principal Accountant, and a pool of 23
accounts staff. The head is an accounting graduate, he has also received training from the Institute of
Public Accounting and Management (IPAM), and has risen in the CAGD rank to a Principal Accountant.
The Unit does not have a single professionally qualified accountant, neither does any of the staff have
experience in Bank-funded operations. Most of the accounting staff have not finished high school and
have no formal accounting training, however, they have received training on the job. Although most of
the staff may not be suitable to participate in new roles, a few of them can be trained to fully fit as
accounting support staff within any new set up that will be put in place to help manage project funds.
36.    The Accounting Division does not have an accounting manual to document its accounting system
and to guide the staff in their daily work. They, however, rely on the general Public Accounting Act
which sets out and regulates the Government's accounting practices and rules. An effective system has
been agreed on with the MEST that will ensure that an acceptable accounting system that meets the
Bank's financial management requirement is put in place to manage the project funds, and that will also
build the internal capacity of MEST accounts division and its staff.
37.    An independent auditing agency has been appointed that will have overall responsibility for the
Project's financial management (KPMG has been selected through a competitive process). The financial
management firm has appointed a professionally qualified and experienced accountant as FC as well as a
Project accountant to be placed within the accounts division of the MEST. These two key staff will have
varying responsibilities which will include, the managing of project funds, building of the capacity of the
MEST accounting staff and working to strengthen the overall financial management systems of the
MEST. The Financial Controller will have overall financial management responsibility for the MEST
including the Project. The accounts manager will have the specific responsibility for project financial
activities including disbursement and project financial reporting. He will report to the Financial
Controller. The Principal Accountant will continue to work on treasury activities, and will benefit from
training and other capacity-building activities. As part of the backstopping role, the FM consultant will
help train staff of the MEST and SPs. The FM consultant will also prepare the financial accounting
manual that will document the accounting system and other financial procedures to be used to manage
the financial resources under the Project.
38.    Prior to project preparation, the financial management systems of the MEST did not meet the
Bank's requirements for the purposes of the Project. Therefore, a set of actions were undertaken, to
ensure that an adequate and acceptable system is in place before the start of project implementation. The
actions are detailed in the table below. They have been divided into those that are required to be in place
prior to project negotiations, and those that will have to be completed before the Project can be declared
effective.
- 91 -



Required Actions
Action Step                      Due Date              Responsibility or    Date Action
Action By          Completed
I      Appointment of a Financial Management                                                     November
.____   Agent (FPMA) for MEST/PCU                                                                    2002
2.     FPMA to appoint a professionally qualified                                                December
and experienced accountant as FC and a       completed                  KPMG                2002
_   Project accountant to MEST/PCU.
3 .    MEST/PCU Accounting support staff to be
in place (minimum of 3 at start). To be      completed                  MEST                2002
provided by Ministry or Govemment.
4      Agree format and Content of Financial                                                    December 17,
Monitonng Reports (FMRs)                     completed                                       2002
S      Pre - Effectiveness Actions                                             .
6.     PFMA completes the Design of Accounting
system and prepares Accounting Manual to   January 31, 2003          MEST/PPT
document it for MEST-Prolect.
7      Review and Comments by WB on the                                                          November
Project Operations Manual                                                                    2002
8.     FPMA finalizes Project Accountng Manual
(including FMR formats) for REBEP          January 31, 2003      ConsultantlMEST/PPT
I reporting
9      Commence training of accounting staff     January 31, 2003           MEST/PPT
10.    Opening Special Accounts (with signatories  March 15, 2003            MEST/PPT
_ _ _ _ etc)
11     Selection of Auditors to be completed     January 31, 2003             MEST/PU
12     During Implementation
13    Initial deposits made in the special accounts  After effectiveness     MEST/AM
14.    First set of FMRs to be produced         End of First QTR of          MEST/AM
project implementation
15.    Second set of FMR                         2nd QTR ending              MEST/AM
16.    Third set of FMR                          3rd QTR ending              MEST/AM
17     Decision to Move to FMR Based             4h                      IDA/MOF (GOSL) &
Disbursements to be taken at this stage.  4                           MEST/AM
AM - Accounts Manager, PU - Procurement Unit and PPT - Project Team
- 92 -



Country Issues
39.    The Bank has carried out a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Sierra
Leone. The report documents the public financial management system architecture, identifies weaknesses
and makes recommendations to address them. The work was completed and a report issued to the
Government of Sierra Leone in March 2002. A stakeholders workshop was organized by the government
of Sierra Leone in June 2002 to discuss the CFAA report and agree actions to address the identified
weaknesses. The workshop was well attended and the report was also very well received. An action plan
was agreed upon at the end of the workshop and is presently under implementation.
The summary risk analysis is based on this work and our FM assessment of the MEST the Ministry
responsible for the implementation of this project.
- 93 -



Summary of Risk Analysis
Risk                                           Risk Rating  Risk Mitigation Measure
Inherent Risks:
Country
a) Weakness in legislative scrutiny of Budget and  M
Audited Accounts. Chairman of Parliamentary
Finance committee (Budget) is the same as
Chairnan of Public accounts committee (audit).
b) Weakness in the Banking sector leading to large
movement of cash from the center to the provinces  S
with the risks associated with cash holdings. Most          Bulk processing will be done at
banks are located in the capital, Freetown.                 the HQ and limit transactions at
the provincial level to minor
activities through petty cash.
c) Inadequacy of remuneration of public sector
financial staff.                                            If there is a need, the Project will
S        supplement with the recruiting
and funding qualified staff to
address this weakness.
Overall Inherent Risks:                              S
mplementing Entities:
a) A new PCU                                         M       Has engaged with a financial
management firm to set up and
document FM system. Prepare
rocedures manual and help train
staff.
) Inadequate of trained and qualified staff within the
EST who can be transferred to the PCU to fully     M        or the new unit, the MEST/PCU
manage all sections of project.                             the project will fund key staff
ositions with the required
qualification to help run the project.
c) The financial management capacity of SPs are not          Specific guidelines have been
adequate.                                            S       outlined in the implementation
manual for use by the service
roviders. All FM staff of the SPs
will be expected to undertake FM
and procurement training under the
project prior to receiving funds.
Control Risk:
Accounting system and Procedures in Ministry not     M       The project will used funds
documented in any procedures manual. Ministry only            secured a PHRD grant and PPF
guided by Finance and Budget ACT, which is general           from IDA to develop the financial
and very broad.                                               management systems and prepare
the required manuals for use.
nadequate systems and documentation to guide the
operations of new entity.
Funds Flow
Delays in accounting for funds by SPs.               S       Payment for services rendered by
- 94 -



the SPs will be link to deliverables
and receipt of accounting retumrns as
outlined in the flow arrangements.
Internal Audit
The MEST has an internal audit (IA) department whose  M  The project will strengthen the IA
functions are mostly limited to pre-auditing. Its needs  through traimng.
modemization to add value.
External Audit
Likely project audit reports for the PCU may be  M      Will ensure the timely selection of
submutted late                                          independent auditors. The TORs
will request the auditor to submit
their report one month before Bank
_____________ _ _deadline.
Information Systems
There is no system in place at the new implementing  S  The MEST/PCU will be assisted to
unit. No effective support services for computerized    computerize its accounting system.
accounting software packages in Sierra Leone.           As part of the establishment of the
PCU, technical assistance will be
provided to ensure the system is
computerized. (Support may have to
be provided from outside the
country).
Overall Control Risk                            S
Implementing Entities
40.    As part of the implementing arrangements, IDA has assisted in helping the MEST set up a PSC,
which will have the overall responsibility for the Project. The PSC will also be responsible for
promoting coordination of education sector initiatives supported by various agencies, overseeing
operational and implementation procedures, monitoring and evaluating project outcomes.
41.    The PSC will have membership from both the public and non-public sectors, including key
stakeholders such as NGOs, missions and other private sector representatives, and will be chaired by the
Minister of Education.
42.    The PSC will carry out its functions through a PCU, which will be responsible for the day-to-day
management of project activities including the financial management of grant funds and providing the
needed reports to stakeholders including IDA, AfDB and the MEST/PSC.
43.    The PCU will have three core professional staff who will ensure effective coordination between
the implementing divisions of the MEST. The PCU will be headed by a Project Director or Project
Manager, a National Technical Coordinator and a Partnership Coordinator. The initial capacity
assessment conducted during preparation revealed weak capacity in the MEST for Project Management,
Financial and Procurement, and with the setting up of the PCU these skilled will have to be recruited
from outside the MEST.
Funds Flow Arrangements
44.    The flow of funds arrangements will be based on the activities that will be financed by each
component and the number and location of participating SPs. The MEST will be responsible for
monitoring and supervising the provision of services. The PCU will be responsible for coordinating
- 95 -



implementation of all project components and activities. Support will be given to SPs in various
locations in order to ensure efficient operation and guarantee that resources are received by the schools in
a timely manner. The flow of funds mechanisms and reporting arrangements should be effective and
simple.
45.    Sub-project proposals from the SPs will be submitted to the PSC who will vote and approve them
against predetermined criteria and format. One of the critical formats will be the implementation plan,
quarterly cash requirements and other requirements as provided for in the implementation manual, for
such activities. On approval, these proposals will be sent to the MEST/PCU for recording and funding.
First Release for Sub-Project Implementation
46.    The PCU, on receipt of approved plans by the PSC and IDA no-objection, will draw up the
relevant contract for the funding of SPs. The amount to be released as the first advance will be
determined by a number of factors and at any rate should not exceed 25 percent of the budget:
(i)    cash required for the first quarter activities;
(ii)  the promptness of submission of returns by SP (if not a first time recipient);
(iii)  the reliability of the SP;
(iv)   adequacy of accounting staff of SP;
(v)    whether SP staff have received training on the Project; and
(vi)   details of the SP's bank account.
47.    The first advance for each sub-project approved will be paid or released directly to the service
provider. This will be done either through, the direct transfer to the SP's bank account, by bankers draft
or checks which ever is appropriate. Cash payments should be discouraged as much as possible (this
may be inevitable depending on location and availability of banks in various districts, etc.).
Second and Subsequent Releases
48.    All funds received by SPs should be accounted for on timely basis by promptly submitting
returns on all funds received and utilized. The returns will consist of a listing of all eligible expenditures
incurred, with the relevant supporting documents, such as receipts, invoices, bank statements and
certification by beneficiaries (where applicable). The returns will be prepared in accordance with the
SOE format as contained in implementation manual.
49.    On acceptance of the expenditure statement, a subsequent release will be made to the SP through
its bank or the same means as the first release. No subsequent release will be made to an SP if they have
not submitted any returns on the first or an earlier advance received.
Auditing Arrangements
50.   Independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank would carry out the audit of all project
activities. The selection of auditors shall be on competitive basis in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines and would be in place by effectiveness of the Project. The project financial statements, SOEs
and the Special Account would be audited by the selected independent auditors. The auditors' reports
and opinions in respect of each of these statements of accounts would be furnished to the World Bank
within six months of the close of each fiscal year. As part of the audit, the auditor will cover, on a
sample basis, activities undertaken by the SPs and will submit an additional report on their compliance
with service agreements including procurement and other disbursement guidelines as outlined in the
operations manual.
- 96 -



Reporting and Monitoring
51.    The Bank has introduced a new initiative, the Financial Management Initiative (FINMI). FINMI
requires projects to prepare quarterly projects financial monitoring reports (FMRs) in the areas of
finance, procurements including complaints from bidders and project progress. The PCU will be
required to prepare these reports on quarterly basis as part of project implementation. The financial
management consultant's assignment will ensure that a system is put in place to enable the PCU to
produce these reports.
52.    The Quarterly Financial Reports would consist of a statement of cash receipts by sources and
expenditures by main expenditure classifications for the period and cumulatively; cash balances of the
Project; and supporting schedules comparing actual and planned expenditures;
Quarterly Physical Progress Report would include a narrative information and output indicators, linking financial inforrr
and report on issues that require attention;
Quarterly Procurement Management Report would consist of information on the procurement of goods
and works and that of consultants' services and compliance with agreed procurement methods. The
report compares procurement performance against the plan agreed at negotiations and appropriately
updated at the end of each quarter. The report should also provide any information on complaints by
bidders, unsatisfactory performance by contractors and any contractual disputes.
All reports will be the responsibility of the MEST/PCU.
Financial Monitoring Reports
53.    The Bank has introduced a new initiative, the Financial Management Initiative (FINMI).
FINMI requires projects to prepare quarterly financial monitoring reports (FMRs) in the areas of
finance, procurements including contract details and project progress.
54.    These FMRs which will be prepared on quarterly basis and submitted to the Bank, will
consist of;
i)     sources and uses of funds;
ii)    uses of funds by project components and activities;
iii)   contract monitoring reports;
iv)    Procurement report;
v)     Physical progress;
- 97 -



Disbursement Arrangements
55.    The proceeds of the grant would be disbursed over a four year period. A period of six months
after closing date would be allowed to make disbursements for expenditures incurred until the closing
date of the grant.
Use Statement Of Expenditures (SOEs)
56.    Disbursements for all expenditures would be against full documentation, except for items of
expenditures under contracts and purchase orders below US$ 100,000 equivalent each, for goods, works
and consulting firms, and US$ 50,000 for consultant services (individuals), training and incremental
costs for which disbursements would be based on SOEs. Supporting documentation for SOEs would be
retained by the Borrower (Government of Sierra Leone) for review by IDA missions and external
auditors.
- 98 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
i c d  ''i' 'fi'i ,,-*,.',Fg, ;_1' ~ -'pI nn -d..,  -: ?   7  , ' ":Actual -.!i
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      10                          10
First Bank mission (identification)            05/12/2001                   05/12/2001
Appraisal mission departure                    02/28/2002                   02/28/2000
Negotiations                                   10/07/2002                   12/16/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  03/15/2003
Prepared by:
The MEST and the CSO.
Preparation assistance:
A PHRD Grant for US$ 443,975 was received and used by the Bank to provide consulting services to: 1)
conduct an education sector needs assessment, and the NSSR (2001); 2) develop the Partnership Program
and prepare the Partnership Manual; 3) conduct capacity assessment and develop a capacity-building
plan to implement the Project; 4) to develop the Peace Education Program; and 5) to develop the
in-service teacher training program. The last component was administered by the Government of Sierra
Leone.
All planned outputs were completed and consulting performance was successful. The reports produced
were of an excellent quality, and execution of the Grant was performed with a significant transfer of
technical knowledge to the client. Both the client and stakeholders benefited from training programs and
consultative workshops carried out by consultants, as they also gained experience *in program
management and administration, in establishing separate project financial management systems, and
procurement. Innovations such as development of the Partnership Program and the Peace Education
Component were highly satisfactory.
- 99 -



Bank staff who worked on the project included:
lNarme                                 Speciality,
Adriana Jaramillo                 Task Team Leader
Alain Mingat                      Sr. Education Economist
Christopher Thomas                Sr. Education Specialist in Post-conflict countries
Michael Drabble                   Education Specialist
Jaap Bregman                     Lead Education Specialist (Out of School Youth)
Eliezer Orbach                    Capacity Building Specialist
Mbuba Mbungu                      Sr. Procurement Specialist
Fred Yankey                      Financial Management Specialist
Minneh Kane                       Lead Counsel
David Webber                      Lead Financial Management Specialist
Robin Horn                        Senior Education Specialist
Barbara Barbosa-Machado           Language Program Assistant
Barbara Medina                    Consultant
Nadeem Mohanumad                  Consultant
Keiko Miwa                        Young Professional
Laura McDonald                    Consultant
Monica Penuela                    Consultant
Jorge Saavedra                    Consultant
Franco Russo                      Language Program Assistant
- 100-



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Identification mission Aide-memoire May 2001.
2. Pre-appraisal mission Aide-memoire October 2001.
3. February mission Aide-memoire February 2002.
4. Project Implementation Manual.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Education Sector Review, 2001
2. National School Survey Report (NSSR), 2001
3. Environmental Assessment Report, 2001
4. Social Assessment Report, 2001
5. QER Report, 2001
6. Peace Education Programn, 2001
C. Other
1. National Education Plan (1997, 2000), MEST 1996.
2. Revision of QUAP/The education sector in the context of the post-war recovery. Ministry of
Education, Science and Technology, January 1998.
3. Survey Report on the Status of Women and Children in Sierra Leone at the end of the decade. GOSL, November 2000.
4. Situation Analysis of Women and Children in Sierra Leone GOSL, UNICEF, UNFPA, Christian Children's Fund, Plan
International, April 1998.
5. Education for All: Meeting our collective commitments, MEST, April 2000.
6. Project Proposal for the improvement of school broadcasting for enhancement of outreach prograns, sensitization and
awareness raising in education, MEST, UNESCO, March 2000.
7. Training/Skill development and job creation for vulnerable groups especially youths and women. MEST, April 1998.
8. Project Preparation Report presented by the MEST.
*Including electronic files
- 101 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
05-Sep-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                          Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frnm Revd
P074642        2002 ERRC II                                          0 00      50 00                           0 00      23.30    -2812       0 00
P073883        2002 HIV/AIDS RESPONSE PROJECT                        000       1500                            000       1609       052       000
P070201        2001 Second Public Sector Managemnent Support          0 00      3.50                           0 00       2 52      0 69      0 00
P040649       2000 COMMUNITY REINTEGRATION&REHAB PROJ                000       2500                            000      37.21      -0 97      000
P002420        1996 TRANSPORT SECTOR PRO                             0 00      35.00                           0 00       6 07      9 42      7 52
P002422        1996 HEALTH SECTOR                                     0 00     20 00                           000        097       3 07      -6.15
P002428        1995 URBAN WATER SUPPLY                               0 00      36 00                           0 00       0.28      3 43      0 0
Total        000       184.50                          000        8643     -11.96       137
- 102 -



SIERRA LEONE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval         Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi    Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2001                MSICIH II Sierra               4.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00     0 00
Total Portfolio:          4.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0 00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                          Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic
Total Pending Commitment:          0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 103 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                   Sierra  Saharan      Low-
Leone     Africa   Income       Devolopmont dlamond'
2000
Population. mid-year (midions)                          5 0      659      2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     130       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                      0.63       313      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Populaton (/)                                          2 2        2 6       1.9
Labor force (X)                                         2 5       2 6       2.4     GNI           7                  Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                               capita              .        enrollment
Poverty (% of populason below national poverty Ilne)
Urban population (% of total population)                35        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        37        47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                          92        77
Child malnutbition (% of children under 5)                                               Access to Improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (% of populatIon)    34        55        76
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                              38        38
Gross pnmary enrollment (% of school-age population)     ..       78        96                   Siera Leone
Male                                                            85       102             --    Low-income group
Female                                                          71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999     2000
Economic ratlos'
GDP (USS billions)                             1.2     0 90      0 67      0.64
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                17.7       9.4       0 3       6.8
Exports of goods and services/GDP            23 7     24 0       14.2      18.5                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                              8.3      -5 7      -9 2
Gross national savings/GDP                             -2 3      -6 0     -11 1
Current account balance/GDP                  -14.4    -10.0      -6.3     -18.0     Domestc              .
Interest payments/GDP                         0 6       0.4       2.7       2 9           sInvestment
Total debt/GDP                               40.2     128.3     188.7     2074      savings
Total debt service/exports                   28.2      12 2      58.7      66.2
Present value of debtlGDP                                                 110.0
Present value of debt/exports                                             668 7
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1 2      -4 5     -8.1       3.8       5.4                   Sierra Leone
GDP per capita                      -0.9     -6 7      -9.9       2.8       3.3                    Low-income group
Exports of goods and services        0 2     -10.8     -6.6      21.5      14.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000      Growth of tnvostment and GOP (%)
(X6 of GDP)
Agriculture                                  32.6      47 0      43.6      47 3      50
Industry                                     20.7      20.4      27 3      29.7        0
Manufactunng                                 5.0      3.7       4 3        4.7              a     s    sr   as   as    o
Services                                     46 6      32.6      29,1      23.0     -5000
Private consumption                          89.4      81 9      94.3      94.9     ltease
General govemment consumpton                  7 7       9.9      114       14 3                -   GDI       -    DP
Imports of goods and services                38 5      25.1      20.2      345                                __          _
everage annualgrowth)  1980-90  1990-00  1999  2000  Growth of exports and Importa (%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                    31       -01        5 7       31      150
Industry                                      1 7      -6 2     -14.0      -9.3     so
Manufactunng                                          5.0         .         .-
Services                                      -2.7    -11 2      -6 9       1.0      a
Pnvate consumption                            0 1      -2.4      -6 8       0.9     so         
General govemment consumpton                  0 0      -1 8      34 6      51.6    -155
Gross domestic investment                    -1 1     -19.9     -94 7    1.659 6                  Expons         imports
Imports of goods and services                -3.5      -4.5      -5 0      54.4
Note 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average It data are missing, the dlamond will
be incomplete.
-104 -



Sierra Leone
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999      2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                         40
Consumer prices                              20.0    111 0       34 1      -0 9     30
Implicit GDP deflator                        18.4     83 4       25 0      6.1     20<
Government finance                                                                 10                                     1
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 o
Current revenue                                        9 2       10 6     17 5      10     95    ss    97    98    99    o
Current budget balance                          .      -7 0      -9 0      -5 2                  GOP deflator  *  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         .     -10 5     -11 4     -11 2
TRADE
(USS millins)                                1980     1990      1999      2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total expons (fob)                            214      155        61        75     250
Rutile                                         .      78          1
Diamonds                                              13          1       10     200
Manufactures                                                                      150
Total Imports (cdi)                           367      155        78       161     1i
Food                                          ..      37         28        66 __
Fuel and energy                                       38         21       29 s
Capital goods                                         33          5        18      o
54   95   96   57    55   95   00
Exportprice index (1995=100)                            91        87        83
Import price index (1995=100)                   .       95        91        93                 U Exports     * Imports
Terms ofltrade (1995=100)                       .       95        96        89
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS mi/lions)                               1980     1990      1999      2000      Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 234      225        92       11202
Imports of goods and services                 398      221       132       212
Resource balance                             -164        4        -40     -102       s*
Net Income                                    -30     -124        -20      -20
Not current transfers                          26       30        18         7     .10      I     l-"
Current account balance                      -168      -90        -42     -115
Financing Items (net)                         136       83        22       139
Changes in net reserves                        32        7        20       -25     |20
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)         31        5        33        44
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              10     1514     1,804 2   2,092 1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990       1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          469    1,151      1,263     1,319
IBRD                                         13       11         0         0                 G174
IDA                                          29       81       299       354
Total debt service                             66       21        52        69             F 4            -        304
IBRD                                          1        0         1         0
IDA                                           0        0         6         4
Composilion of net resource flows
Official grants                              24       30        65                   E 397         /
Official creditors                           38       13        44        85                                    C 15
Private creditors                            12        4         0        -2
Forelgn direct investment                   -19       32         1
Portfolio equity                              0        0         0                                  D 239
World Bank program
Commitments                                   3        0         0        40      A - eBRO                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 4        0        40        70      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        0         4         2      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                      4        0        36        68
Interest payments                             I        0         3         2
Net transfers                                 3        0        33        66
Development Economics                                                                                               10/10/01
- 105 -



Additional Annex II: Education Sector Analysis
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
Education Sector Analysis
Based on the MICS (2000) survey, a preliminary analysis of the sector has been conducted. The data
collection was done in 2000, and approximately 24, 000 individuals belonging to about 3, 900
households were interviewed The survey had national coverage (1,198 in the North Region, 972 in the
East Region, 815 in the South Region and 919 in the West Region). Of the total number of households
included in the sample, 2,720 households were located in rural area, while 1,184 were located in urban
settings. In order to maximize the accuracy of the data given the large size of the sample, the raw data
collected are not to be representative of the entire country, but the use of weights was used to obtain
representative national estimates.
In the sample, the age distribution of the individuals is as follows:
r   Table 1: Raw distribution of iindividuals by age in'the survey
Age (years)                       Individuals
Number           Percent (%)
Below 6                                4,001             16.6
6-11                                   4,331             18.0
12-15                                 2,246               9.3
16-21                                 2,550              10.6
22-44                                  6,710             27.9
45 and above                           4,209             17.5
Total                                 24, 047             100
From the survey one can observed whether or not the individual has ever been enrolled in school, and
whether he/she is still enrolled in the year 2000. For those who have been enrolled and are not currently
enrolled, the highest grade attained is known. For those who are currently in school, the current grade as
well as the status of the previous year is collected. Based on the above information, a two-step analysis
was conducted.  First, counts were used to produce straightforward estimates, and second, an
econometric approach was used to model both access and retention in primary education.
The overall pattern of schoolin
Table 2 presents GER by level of schooling and by gender, geographic location (urban/rural) and region.
In the early 1990s, primary GER was estimated at about 51 percent in primary schooling and 17 percent
in secondary education (average for both cycles of studies). In the survey, the corresponding figures for
2000 are 63.3 and 9 percent (16.2 percent in lower secondary and 1.9 percent in upper secondary). These
figures reveal disparities by gender, geographic location and region. Gender disparities appear to be
relatively moderate (12 percentage points in primary schooling) and, in any case, of a lesser magnitude
than those contrasting urban and rural population (42 percentage points) or regions. Region West is
characterized by a primary GER that exceeds 100 percent (112 percent) while the region North is where
the figure is lowest (42 percent, a difference of 70 percentage points). Region East and South, with 52
and 76 percent, respectively, are between these two extremes.
- 106 -



Table 2. GER (%) by level of schoolmn. gender. geographic location and region, 2000
Primary education    Lower secondary education  Upper secondary education
Global                           63.3                    16.2                       1.9
Boys                             69 3                    17.6                       1.6
Girls                            57.3                    14.8                      2.1
Urban                            94.3                    30.7                      4.2
Rural                            52.3                     9.5                       1.0
Region North                     42 4                    13.0                       1.6
Boys                          50.8                    14.3                      1.1
Girls                        33.6                     11.4                      2.1
Region East                      52.4                     8.5                       1.0
Boys                          57.6                    10 3                       0
Girls                        47.0                     6.4                       1.4
Region South                     76.0                     7.7                       1.4
Boys                          78.6                     7 3                       1.7
Girls                        72.9                     7.4                       1.0
Region West                      112.3                   35.9                       5.6
Boys                          118.5                   39.3                       5.8
Girls                        106.7                    32.4                      5.4
The disparities existing in GER at lower and upper secondary levels along the different aspects (gender,
geographical location and region) are, to a large extent, in line with those observed in primary education.
Beyond these aggregate statistics, it is also of interest to describe the schooling status of children by age,
separating out: i) those who never attended school; ii) those who attended school but are not currently
enrolled; and iii) those who are currently in school. Table 3, below provides the global information at the
country level.
From this table, it is possible to grasp a sense of the proportion of children that reach Grade 1. The
figure for those considered to be too young was not used, as there is obviously some variability in the age
at which children reach school for the first time. Taking into consideration this variation, the proportion
of a single age group that goes to Grade 1 increases with age from 23 percent for those who are 5, to 54
percent for children who are 9 years old. Beyond this age, the statistics remains more or less stable
between 9 and 13 years of age. Given the inevitable randomness in sampling, it seems safer to calculate
the entry rate for the group of children in this age bracket. The entry rate is, therefore, estimated to be
around 51.9 percent.
- 107 -



Table 3 :Current educational status of youngsters by individual years of age (5-20)
Age              5    6      7     8     9     10   I11     12  13     14     15    16    17    18     19    20
iNduvidualf     922  825    793   765   644   812    410   637   471    448   657   370   312    573   365   652
Never attended  712  504   431    407   298   415    195   311   219    238   452   225   234    385   211   496
Ever aftended   210  321   361    358   346   397    214   326   252    209   205   145    78    188   155   156_
Aftended    but 23    20    27    28     26    42    1 6    30    22    34    57     41    28    181   152   153
not enrolled
Highest   grade
attained
Pnmaryl1         7      8     10    6      9     1     6      3     1     3     0      1     6     1      0
Primary 2        3      5     4     8      8     8     3      5     4     3     3      0     2     2      2
Primary 3                     2     5     II1    4     5      5     4     10    2      3     9     3      5
Primary 4                                  4           5      1     7     1 0   1 0    3     6     6      2
Prnmary 5                                              4      1    1 0    1 1   II1   2      1 5   7     1 0
Primary 6            1     fI                 1        2   13       1  17       2      6   1181 8         8
1+Secondary                                     I               4     5     9     1 0    1 2  116    117   112
Unknown2 ~10           12 12        7     10     3     5     0     2     4    3     198              14
Currently in    187  301    334   330   320   355    198   296   230    175   148   104    50     7     3      3
school
Grade attained
Non-        4    11     6     6     4      5     0     5      0     0     4      4     0     0     0      1
standard
Pnimaryl1  137 194     141   102    68    48     11    13     8     1     1     2      0     0     0      0
Primary 2   32   64    126   113   115    91    37     32    17     8     9      1     2     1      1     0
Pnimary 3   14   15    37    70     74    96    46     62    27    23     19     4     0     0     0      0
Pnimary 4        17    11     17    32    73     49    70    49     31    14     7     3     0      0     0
Prnmary 5              13     9     10    26     32    59    38    43     38    14     5     1      0     0
Primary 6                  1 13     3      5     15    38    43     31    26    181 7        0      0    1 
Secondary                           13     3     2     12    35    26     21    24     14    1      0     0
Secondary                                  8     1     4      3     5     8     16     7     2      0     1
2
Secondary                                        5     0      3     2     5     10     5      1     1     0
3III
Secodary                                              I     0     2     3      4     4      1     0     0
4
Secondary                                                     6     2     0      0     1     0      I     0
5
Secondary                                                           2      1     0     2     0      0     0
16+I                I     I     I      I     I     I      II
% currentlyin 20      37    42    43     50    44    49     47    49    39     23    16     16    1      1     1
school
%ever enrolled
Total         23   39     46    47     54    49    52     5I    54    47     32    22    25     34    43    24
Boys          25   42    47     50    55    52     51    57    63     51    39    49     35    45    56     32
Girls       121    35  144 144        531 45       54  144   144      44  1211 34        171 24      33     181
Urban         29   62 166       74    78    70     76 170      73     65-1 56     65    53     60    68     49
Rural         21   31    38     38    45    41     40    43    43     39    24    30     171 201     27_    16
Region North  17   26    29     33    35    34     34    36    35     32    23    27     18    16    25     14
Region East   20   37    45     39    45    44     41    47    37     37    24    31     17    30    27     16
Region South  38   46    SI     54    63    55     53    62    56     54    42    37     31    35    35     30
Region West   36   67    82     86    90    83     85    81    86     79    75    85     69    74    82     64
When applying a similar method to different population groups according, to gender, geographic location
(urban/rural) and region, the following estimates for the entry rate are obtained:
- 1 08 -



Table 4: Entry rate in primnar Grade 1 by gender.
geographic location and region
Access to pnmary Grade I (%)
Total                                                   51.9
Boys                                                   55.4
Girls                                                  48.0
Urban                                                  73.3
Rural                                                  42.4
North                                                  34.7
East                                                   42.8
South                                                  58.1
West                                                   85.0
A pattern relatively similar to that obtained on the GER was observed, namely: i) that gender disparities
are moderate (55.4 percent for boys, 48 percent for girls); but that ii) the gap between urban and rural
areas is quite substantial (73 percent in urban, but only 42 percent in rural); and iii) that regional
disparities are very wide (35 percent in the North, 43 percent in the East, 58 percent in the East, but 85
percent in the Western Region).
From the data presented in Table 4, it may also be stressed that, within the global population of
adolescents, only a very small proportion of those in the age group 15 to 20, have had any access to
schooling. It is indeed
estimated that among the 2,929 individuals in that age group in the survey as many as 2002 (68.4
percent) did not have access to school at all. This group of individuals is, as such, entering adult life
with no schooling. Defining strategies to prevent major social problems within this age group is an area
that deserves special attention.
School retention
To analyze this pattern, cross tabulation of the grade attained over the two school years (1998-99 and
1999-00) was conducted, determining the pattern of retention for Grades 1-6. Table 5 shows these
results. Out of 100 children, it is estimated that 91 reach Grade 2, 85 reach Grade 3, and 79 reach Grade
4, 75 reach Grade 5 and about 70 percent of intakes reach the last grade of the cycle. Since it had been
estimated that the entry rate was around 52 percent at the national level, this implies that about only 36
percent of a cohort completes primary education.
Table 5: Pattern of Retention in Primary Schooling (%!
Grade to grade   Cumulative   Schooling profile  Proportion (%) of
_____ _____ __   __ ____ _____ ___   _ _____ ____ ____   _____ _____ ____rep eate rs
Grade I                           100             52                 24
Grade 2            91             91              47                 8
Grade 3            93             85              44                 7
Grade 4            94             79              41                 6
Grade 5            94             75              39                 4
Grade 6            92             70              36                 7
From Table 5, repetition rates can also be estimated. In general, the proportion of repeaters is relatively
- 109 -



moderate in the country (12.7 percent over the cycle), but the figure for Grade 1 appears to be
particularly high (24 percent).
An econometric approach to analyze access and retention in primary education
Access to schooling was analyzed for the 9 to 13 population to allow for late entry to schooling (2,957
individuals). For retention within the primary cycle, the population taken into account was the age group
16 to 20 and restricted to those who had access to schooling (809 individuals fulfilled the two
conditions). In each case, the variable is dichotomous (1 for access to Grade 1 in the first model, to grade
6 in the second, versus 0 for those who never were enrolled in the first model or who did not reach Grade
6 in the second). Since the dependant variable is dichotomous, the specification used is logistic and the
estimates are interpreted as probabilities (to enroll or to get to the end of cycle for those who have had
access). The average values of these statistics are very close to the estimates obtained from headcounts
in the previous section. The results are given in Table 7 below.
Table 6: Model accounting for access to grade I and retention Grades 1-6
Access to Grade I                            Retention Grades 1-6
Model I     Model 2    Model 3     Model 4     Model 5    Model 6     Model 7     Model 8
Intercept          - 0.631 ***  -0.937 **  - 0.666 ***  - 1.183 ***  1.169 ***  0.860 ***  0.367 (ns)  0.618 **
Boy                            0.402 ***               0.423 ***              0.229 (ns)             0.248 (ns)
Girl                              Ref                    Ref                     Ref                    Ref
Region North          Ref         Ref                    Ref         Ref         Ref                    Ref
Region East         0 369 e**  0.320 *                 0.143 (ns)  - 0.746    - _ 1.174  e           -1.0241 ***
Region South        0.979 ee    1.001 ***              0.869 t     0.010 (ns)  - 0.017 (ns)          - 0.083 (ns)
Region West         2.361 ***  2.013 ***               1.617 t     0.562 Fe   - 0.205 (ns)           -0,361 (ns)
Urban                          0.604 t                 0.365 e                 1.204 ***              1.068 4**
Rural                             Ref                    Ref                     Ref                    Ref
20 % poorest                                  Ref        Ref                                 Ref        Ref
Q2                                         0.081 (ns)                                     0.377 (ns)
Q3                                         0.711 e**                                       0.760       0 >
.0590 t                ______                   0.412 *
Q4                                         1.020 ***                                       0.780 t
20 % nchest                                2.118***    1.200***                           1.346**      0.588**
Nber observations    2 957       2 957     . 2 957       2 957       809         809         809         809
x2 Likelihood ratio  468 t      525        365 t       608 t       34 **       66 *       25*         7
Somers' D            0.420       0.462       0.382       0.501      0.265       0.370       0.236       0.393
e significant at 10 % level; ** significant at 5 % level; *** significant at I % level; (ns) non-significant
In the model, a proxy variable was used to estimate income levels. In the absence of variables measuring
income or consumption, quintiles (distribution in five groups from poorest to richest) have been
constructed using a factor analysis based on the assets owned by the household as well as on its
conditions of living. This procedure is considered standard in poverty analysis in the absence of a
variable measuring directly income or consumption.
The geographical distribution of this wealth index over the country, shows that in general, individuals in
rural areas are, on average, much poorer than those who live in urban areas. A second observation is that
-110-



even though we find rich and poor households in all regions, as many as 58 percent of the individuals
in the poorest quintile are located in the Northern region (83 percent if we include region East),
while region West accounts for 65 percent of the individuals belonging to the richest quintle.
Econometric results reported in Table 6 indicate that income does matter in accounting for both access
and retention, and that, in general, the richer the better. However, the analysis shows also that it is
relevant to consider three groups of income instead of the five quintiles. Individuals in the first lowest
two quintiles appear to behave similarly, those in quintiles 3 and 4 sharing also similar circumstances
(better access and better retention than those belonging to quintiles 1 and 2), while quintile 5 (the richest)
constitutes a group in itself.
Simulation model for access and retention
Table 7 presents the estimates for access to Grade 1 and 6 (through retention in the course of the primary
cycle) by region, gender and urban/rural.



Table 7: Simulation of Access Rates to Grades I and 6 and of Retention Rates Grades 1-6 by Gender.
Region and Geographic Area (%)
Total
North          East         South          West        Together
Access rate in Grade 1           35.1          43.9          59.2          85.8          51.9
Retention rate Grade 1 -6       73.1           57.9          73.3          81.4          74.0
Access rate in Grade 6           25.6          25.4          43A           69.8          38.4
Boys
North          East         South          West        Together
Access rate in Grade 1          39.2           48.8          63.6          88.3          55.6
Retention rate Gradel-6          74.1          59.6          74.4          82.4          75.0
Access rate in Grade 6           29.1          29.0          47.3          72.8          41.7
Girls
North          East         South          West        Together
Access rate in Grade I           30.2          38.9          53.9          83.3          48.2
Retention rate Gradel-6          71.0          55.4          71.3          80.2          74.0
Access rate in Grade 6           21.4          21.6          38A           66.8          35.7
Urban Boys                              |
North          East         South          West        Together
Access rate in Grade 1           52.2          60.2          75.2          89.8          77.0
Retention rate Gradel -6        87.1           72.3          86.9          85.3          83.4
Access rate in Grade 6           45.5          43.5          65.3          76.6          64.2
Rural Boys
North          East         South          West         Together
Access rate in Grade 1           37.3          45.1          62.0          82.2          47.0
Retention rate Gradel-6          71.7          45.9          71.4          67.8          66.3
Access rate in Grade 6           26.8          20.7          44.3          55.8          31.2
Urban Girls
North          East         South          West         Together
Access rate in Grade 1           42.1          50.1          66.7          85.1          77.0
Retention rate Gradel-6          85.1          68.0          84.9          82.9          80.4
[ccess rate in Grade 6     |     35.9          34.1          56.6           70.6          61.9
Rural Girls
North          East          South         West         Together
Access rate in Grade I           28.4          35.4          52.1          75.3          38.5
Retention rate Gradel-6          67.4          40.5          67.0          63.1          60.9
Access rate in Grade 6     |     19.1          14.3          34.9           47.5          23.4
The table shows the magnitude of differences in schooling indicators when gender, region and
geographical location are considered together. The estimates show that disparities in the access to
schooling are much stronger than those concerning the retention in the course of the cycle. This
suggests the existence of a fairly strong demand for schooling and that supply-side problems are
likely to hamper access to education. Concerning access to primary education, the results are largely
consistent with those presented earlier. The rate varies from 28 percent for rural girls in the
- 112 -



Northern region to 90 percent for urban boys in the Western region. Even though there are
disparities in access between rural and urban (and to a lesser extent between boys and girls), it is the
region that makes the bulk of the disparities, the Northern region (and the Eastem as well) lagging much
behind the West.
Conceming retention, results show that it is significantly higher in an urban than in a rural setting but
with little difference between boys and girls. Regional disparities are moderate on this count, even
though it is to be noted that the East is characterized by lower figures than the three other regions. It
would be of interest to document the extent to which the lower level of retention in rural areas (in the
East in particular) is associated with the existence of incomplete schools (schools that do not offer
leaming in the six grades of primary schooling).
When disparities in access and in retention are compounded, wide disparities are obviously present with
a rate of access to Grade 6 that spans from less than 20 percent for rural girls in the North or the
East to more than 75 percent for urban boys from the West. These results are likely to be partly due
to the turbulence observed in the country during the last years; they obviously suggest that targeted
actions be taken to reduce the existing level of disparities in the country. The fact that most of the
disparities are linked to access more than to retention (and that the problem lies more on the supply-side
than on the demand-side) is likely to constitute a favorable context for improving the case of the country
over the next years using relatively standard educational policies.
It is finally of interest to document the statistical relationships existing between the level of income of the
family and the schooling indicators of the children. Graphs 1 and 2 below show the rates of access to
Grades 1 and 6 in the three relevant groups of income.
Gratph I Egy rate n pnatygmad I by Quotit of inrccne  rapg2 AccessratemGrade6byQuntieofincome
70%-
SD- 60 0%-
71%                            -2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50%-
50%                                          0                             _
9 40% -                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30%-
3l 0% -                       RIti ox-0
lo%                                        <  10%
0%
0%
Ql-Q2      Q3-Q4    20% Rchest               QIlQ2      Q3-Q4    20% RIchest
Qwn*iic of income                            Qutnt2e of mncome
The differences are quite substantial from 35 percent for the access rate in the lowest income group to
more than 80 percent in the highest. Disparities are slightly larger when access to Grade 6 is
concerned, from 21 percent for the group of the 40 percent poorest households to 66 percent for
the group of the 20 percent richest in the country.
Table 8 extends the analysis by providing access rates to primary Grades 1 and 6 by level of income as
well as by gender and geographic location. Graphs 3, 4 and 5 illustrate the findings.
- 113 -



Table 8: Access rates to Grade I and 6 by Gender. Geographic location and Income
Urban                               Rural
20% Richest  Q3-Q4     40 % Poorest  20% Richest  Q3-Q4    40 % Poorest
ccess to  Bo             88.2       71.6        56.3         77.3       54.0        37.7
Ade I       Girls          83.1       62.8        46.4         69.5        44.1        28.9
Grade__   _ I  Together    85.7       67.2        51.3         73.4       49.1        33.3
_    on    Bs              84.8       82.0 0 7    77.6         73.0       68.1        61.2
setention  G~~iries     81.9       78.5   |    73.2         6.62554.
Vmds o1-6     gether       83.3        80.2        75.4         70.4       65.3        58.0
lrade 6      oys           74.8        58.7       43.7         56.4        36.8        23.0
GO1,3. A  n tm< lt,tr,ki  k                     C: 0i4:       tmd
b-gw
iOOt%                                          10tiOX
200t%                                          6QC%  -t0                   IZ'
O40                                            30344
0N . U. Ut. P. h    3                          U. U.   Ut.      _  k
D%q     4D% 23% 3%q  40%                       23X P   4D%  VA C(t 40%
tw      itt Wat'sF Pw0                         11       1  Raw     t
|  Qx5 Aaswltth6tC= 
33
b~ww
I s30tS%l          'W\t,        I
ura   andl rua settngs, wt, foIxml,adfeec                slrea bten7            ecn    o  h   cest
23XA    (I   40%  DK  t>QI  .0% l
I    M t   b     MWRd  P(lZ 
Income has a much greater impact on access than on retention (with more or less the same magnitude in
urban and rural settings), with, for example, a difference as large as between 71 percent for the access to
Grade 6 in the richest segment of the urban population and 39 percent in the poorest, or between 52 and
20 percent between the two extreme income groups in rural areas. Graph 6 summarizes the pattern of
access to primary Grade 1, retention between Grades 1 and 6, and of access to primary Grade 6 by
income group, gender and geographic area.
- 114 -



Graph 6 Access rate In Grade I and Grade 6 for few groups of
Popu lation
I 000%
90 0%
SO_0 U rban
8 0 0%                                                    20% Richest
70 0%                              .    |             -1--B Urban
60 0%                           -                           ~ 20% Poorest
6 0 0 %                                               -- _-C  R ura l
20% Poo rest
10 0% -
500%                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Urban
40 0%                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20% Richest
40 0%                                                -5g---G Rurat
300%  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~2 0% P oo rest
20 0%                                  .-a--M- G Ru.ral
2 0% P oo rest
0 0% -
Grade I                Grade 6
Grade
The Pattern of Literacy Retention
It was observed earlier that a fair proportion of children did not complete the full six years of schooling
of the primary cycle (mostly because of access). The data contained in the survey allow to document a
relevant indicator which is the adult literacy rate. The survey included a question that documents
whether an individual can read a letter or a newspaper (easily, with difficulty, or not at all). This piece of
information is available for all adults included in the survey, as information on the schooling career when
the individual was young (whether he/she was ever enrolled in school and if so, what had been the
highest grade attained) is also available.
This, therefore, is an opportunity to test the relationship between the proficiency in reading of adults and
the initial schooling career and the highest grade attained when leaving school. In the survey, we have
selected the group of adults ages 22 to 44 and have conducted the analysis for the individuals in that age
group. Table 9 provides the results.
Table 9: Level of adult literacy according to access to schooling at younger ages (adults 22-44)
Had access to schooling  Did not have access to     Total
schooling
Can read easily              1 531                   157                  1 688
Can read with difficulty      200                     72                  272
Cannot read                   171                   4 344                4515
Total                        1 902                  4 573                 6 475
The structure is relatively clear: among those who did not have access to schooling: 90 percent of those
.who can read easily have had access to schooling when they were young and 95 percent of those who did
not have access to schooling cannot read at all. If we focus now on the population of the 1,902
individuals that attended school when they were young, 80 percent can read easily (20 percent cannot
read easily). This structure demonstrates that schooling is, to a large extent, a necessary condition for
adults to be literate, but that it is not a sufficient condition since about 20 percent of those who had been
enrolled did not retain literacy in adult life.
- 115-



To progress in the analysis, it is now useful to distribute those who went to school by highest grade
attained. Table 1O provides the data and Graph 7 below illustrates them.
Table 10: Reading capacitv of adults according to highest grade attained at voung age (22-44)
Highest           Can read Can read but   Cannot     Total   Proportion than can read (%)
grade attained     easily  with difficulty  read
grade attained______  (1)      (2)         (3)        (4)       (1)/(4)   [(1)+(2)]/(4)
Never enrolled in   157         72        4 344      4 573       3.4          5.0
school
Grade l; primary     5          2           12        18         25.0        35.1
Grade 2; primary     4          1           18        23         16.3        21.2
Grade 3; primary     6          5           17        28         21.3        37.9
Grade 4; primary     I          14         24         49         23.2        52.2
Grade 5; primary     17        20           18        55         31.8        68.0
Grade 6; primary    35         33          27         95         36.5        71.1
Grade 7; secondary   58        43           12        113        51.2        88.9
Grade 8; secondary  135        42          14         191        70.6        92.8
Grade 9; secondary  242         18         16         277        87.6        94.2
Grade 10; secondary  270        12          3         285        94.7        99.0
Grade I 1; secondary  539       7           8         554        97.3        98.5
Grade 12; secondary  31         1           1         33         94.3        97.2
Grade 13 +          179         3           1         183        98.0         99.5
Total              1 688       272        4 515      6 475       13.1         17.1
Graph 7: % of adults that can read easily according to
highest grade attained when they were young
100
90
70
60
50
fo -
30
30
20
0  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  15  16  17  18  19
Hlghest grade attained
In the case of Sierra Leone, the proportion of adults who have dropped out early from attending primary
schooling is relatively small (this is in line with the observation made above of a relatively high rate of
survival in the course of primary schooling today). As a consequence, the estimate as to the proportion
among them of those who can read is probably not robust. However, the overall pattern is very clear.
For those of whom the highest grade attained was primary Grade 4 or 5, for which the numbers are not
too small, only a fraction can read easily (respectively 23 percent when the highest grade is Grade 4 and
32 percent when the highest grade is Grade 5). Even for those who attained the last grade of primary
schooling, the percentage of those who can read easily is only 36 percent, which is only a minority (if we
- 116 -



include those who can read with difficulty, the figure increases to 71 percent, but still 29 percent of these
adults cannot read at all). It is only with 10 or 1 1 years of schooling that almost all adults retain literacy.
In the sample, there is a possibility to go beyond the head count of adults whether they are literate or not,
according to the highest grade attained in school when they were young. The survey provides
information on the gender and on the geographical location of the individual. We can also estimate the
amount of time since the individual has left school so as to test how time influences the retention of
literacy during adult life. To conduct this analysis, it is convenient to estimate a simple econometric
model (logistic specification) to account for the probability of an adult to be literate. The results are
presented in Table 1 1 below.
Table  1: Logistic estimate of the probability for an adult to read easily (a)
Coefficient                    Chi2
Intercept                              -3.728                     228 (***)
Highest grade attained                 0.543                      1 208 (***)
Male (versus female)                   0.606                       31 (***)
Urban (versus rural)                   0.660                       33 (***)
Number of year since leaving           - 0.004                      1 (ns)
school
(a) probability 26%, Adults 22-44, Sample of 6 427 mdividuals.
Chl2 ofLikelihood ratio: 4 855 (significant at 1/1000 level), Somers' D=0.913
*'*. Significant at 1/1000 level; ns: non significant
The estimate indicates that the variables included in the model together account for a very large share of
the variance of the dependant variable. Not surprisingly, the highest grade attained has the largest impact
on the probability that an adult will be literate. For the same schooling career, males do better in
retaining literacy that females (probably linked with the social roles of men and women) and the urban
setting appears more propitious for retaining this ability than the rural environment (probably linked to
the fact that there are more frequent reading opportunities in towns). Finally, the amount of time that has
passed since the individual put an end to his/her studies does not carry any significant impact. It is as if,
when the capacity is well-established at a young age, it remains so forever. The fact that: i) males retain
better literacy; ii) a rural setting is not a favorable context for literacy retention; and iii) the time passed
since leaving school has no impact on the pattem of retention, is very much in line with what has been
found in other countries such as Togo and Niger where 7 or 8 years of schooling are enough to obtain
adult literacy rates. Table 12, below, shows, through simulation of the model presented in Table 1 1, how
the different variables interplay.
- 117 -



Table 12: Simulation of the proportion (%) of adults (22-44) who can read easily according to
highest grade attained. gender and geographic area
Highest                                                            Gr    Gr   Gr
grade         0   GrI Gr2 Gr3 Gr4 Gr5 Gr6         Gr    Gr 8 Gr 9  10    Gr   12
attained
Total
population   3.8  6.3  10.4  16.6 25.5 37.1  50.3 63.6 75.0 83.8 89.9 93.9 96.3
Urban Males  7.9  12.8 20.2 30.3 42.8   56.3  68.9 79.2 86.8 91.9 95.1 97.1  98.3
Urban
Females      4.4  7.4  12.1  19.2 29.0 41.3  54.7 67.5 78.2 86.0 91.4 94.8   96.9
RuralMales   4.2  7.1  11.5 18.3 27.9 40.0   53.4 66.4 77.2  85.4 91.0 94.5  96.8
Rural
Females      2.3  4.0  6.6   10.9  17.4 26.6 38.5  51.8 64.9 76.1  84.6 90.4 94.2
According to this estimate (probably more robust than the previous one using raw headcounts), only half
of those whose highest level of education is the last grade of primary schooling will become literate
adults. Gender and geographic location do play a significant role since the average figure of 50 percent
hides a variation spanning from 39 percent for females residing in rural areas to 69 percent for males
residing in cities. It is only with I 1 years of schooling that it can be said that all individuals are to retain
literacy in adult life, and that gender and geographic disparities really vanish.
- 118 -



Additional Annex 12: Policy Letter
SIERRA LEONE: REHABILITATION OF BASIC EDUCATION
Policy Letter (Dated July 9. 2002)
The purpose of this letter is to describe Sierra Leone's Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project (REBEP-SL) for
the period 2002 to 2007.
In 1996 the Government of Sierra Leone and Ministry of Education completed the development of a
comprehensive National Education Action Plan (1997-2000) and a related Quick Action Program (QUAP) both
based largely on the New Education Policy for Sierra Leone (1995). The coup d'6tat of May 1997 resulted in the
disruption of developmenit plans due to the curtailment of international financial and material support. A revised
QUAP for the education sector was completed in January 1998. The main objective of this program was to restore
and revitalize the education system by rehabilitation and reconstruction of the school infrastructure, provision of
teaching and leaning materials to schools in war-affected areas, and payment of teachers' salaries on time.
The enforcdment of the Lome Peace Accord together with the rapid progress in the implementation of the
Disarmament, Demobilization and Reintegration programs since May 2001, has greatly contributed to return of
normalcy. This has also made it possible for H.E. the President, Alhaji Dr. Ahmad Tejan Kabbah, to declare the
end of the ten year long conflict and to oversee a "free and fair" general election. In this post-conflict situation
and with reconstruction efforts going on, the key priority of this Government is to resume and rapidly increase
access to basic social services, in particular education services for under-served children.
To this end, the Ministry of Education, has been collaborating with the Bretton Woods Institutions, AfDB, IBD,
DFID, UN agencies (IJNDP, UNICEF, WFP, UJNFPA and UNHCR) as well as over twenty international and
national NGOs, to support a wide range of activities. These activities include: school rehabilitation and
re-construction; provision of furniture, teaching-learning and sports-recreation materials; teacher training; school
feeding; reorientation and accelerated learning programs for over-age children; a non-formal program for children
lacking access to formal primary schooling and a number of emergency education programs.
In the short to medium term, the REBEP will revitalize the education service delivery system thereby ensuring that
children have access to primary schools operating at or above a pre-specified minimum quality level defined as a
basic operational level (BOL). To do so, the Ministry of Education will further develop its partnership with
service providers to fund the provision of education services and rapidly increase the coverage of education, while
progressively upgrading its quality. At the same time, the Ministry will seek to enhance its institutional capacity
in order to effectively support the implementation of this project and improve its leadership and management of
the sector.
In the long term, the Government recognizes the importance of greater and better investment in the development of
needed human resources to contribute to the country's overall economic growth and thus reduce poverty.
Critically important for the long term is the development of all levels of the education system, so that the demand
for educated labor in termns of the number and quality of graduates meet the needs of the economy. In
consequence, the Ministry will seek to achieve the goals of Education for All, notably the elimination of the
gender gap in primary and secondary education by 2005; the achievement of universal primary completion by
2015; and the reduction by 50 percent of the current illiteracy rate by 2015.
Priorities for Basic Education
Coverage issues
A decade of civil conflict has taken its toll on education coverage in Sierra Leone. With the end of the
- 1 19 -



hostilities, education coverage rapidly improved with a gross enrollment rate in primary estimated at 54.3
percent in 1999.
0   The decision to completely eliminate tuition fee at the primary level in the 2001-02 school year (a year
after it had been abolished for Grades 1 to 3) resulted in a surge of enrollment. This surge was particularly
significant for enrolment in the first grade which experienced a 66 percent increase from the previous school
year.
The Ministry's strategy to meet the increasing demand for basic education services rests on the following pillars:
o   Development of a partnership program between the Ministry of Education and education sector providers
such as Christian and Islamic Organizations, NGOs and CBOs to fund the expansion of the education service
delivery system. Through this partnership program the Ministry will provide funds through the service
providers for expansion of services and improvement of the quality of existing primary and junior secondary
schools. This will include financing the construction, reconstruction and rehabilitation of primary schools,
including the supply of school furniture and a progressive increase in educational provision for those that have
been underserved.
o   Providing operating budget to primary schools to compensate for the elimination of tuition fee.
o   Building primary schools and some junior secondary schools targeting underserved areas.
o   Ensuring an adequate supply of teachers and teaching/learning material.
Equity issues
o   The gender and geographical disparities that exist today in terms of overall provision and the low
enrolment rates in the Northern and Eastern Regions especially for girls will be addressed. Nevertheless, the
program will have national coverage and service providers will be encouraged to focus on those districts
which were badly affected by the just ended conflict and which have a history of being disadvantaged.
o   Non-formal and emergency education programs reaching children aged 10-14 year who have missed
some years of primary schooling will be expanded whilst arrangements are being put in place to absorb all into
formal schooling.
Quality issues
The project will provide the education inputs necessary for schools to meet a pre-specified Basic Operation Level
(BOL). To this end, primary and junior secondary schools will receive enough textbooks in the core subject areas
for each child to have one together with essential learning materials. In addition, the Ministry will undertake an
ambitious plan to provide in-service training for unqualified teachers. Approximately 10,000 teachers will receive
training on basic pedagogical skills, classroom management, and how to build a peaceful environment in schools.
Teachers will receive teacher's guides, and peace education toolkit. Further the quality of the teaching/learning
environment will receive attention so that irrespective of the area in which it is found a school will be roofed,
floors paved, chalkboard available in each well ventilated classroom and every child with a desk and chair.
All efforts will be made to keep class sizes to the minimum necessary for effective teaching/learning. Regional and
district disparities in pupil : teacher ratios will be addressed to the end that a primary school pupil : teacher ratio of
40:1 and a Junior Secondary School pupil : teacher ratio of 30:1 will be found nation-wide and not just in some
districts.
Monitoring and Evaluation Mechanisms
As already indicated in the above, through this project the Ministry expects to rehabilitate and/or reconstruct as
many as 500 Primary Schools and 100 Junior Secondary Schools. The Ministry also intends providing textbooks
and teaching and leaming materials to approximately 700,000 primary students and 100,000 junior secondary
students. At the end of the project, the Ministry would have provided initial training for 10,000 untrained and
unqualified teachers in basic pedagogical skills and peace building initiatives, and would have established
- 120 -



approximately 800 School Management Committees.
With this project the Ministry is also seeking to build its capacity to manage financial and human resources, and to
plan and coordinate the provision of services by different service providers and stakeholders in education. Special
attention will be given to the District Education Offices, in particular the Quality Assurance Officers, who will
have an important role in providing support to schools, teachers and school principals.
In order to monitor progress and gains of the project, several mechanisms will be established. These will include:
*   The establishment of a yardstick in the form of minimum process and outcome indicators for schools and
the system
*   An Education Management and Information System (EMIS) that will allow annual monitoring of
progress made in the delivery of services.
*   The conduct of an annual national school survey that will not only allow the collection of data to monitor
progress, but also make it possible to plan for the future development of schools and the education system as a
whole.
In order to underscore Government's commitment to good governance and transparency in the decision making
process it has approved the establishment of a Project Steering Committee (PSC) as the governing body of the
project. 60% of the membership of the PSC will come from the Govemment and the remaining 40% from its
partners. In addition, the Ministry of Education is establishing and providing support to School Management
Committees (SMCs), which are school-based organizations with representation from the community, parents,
teachers, and the proprietors.
Resources
Successful execution of the proposed project requires US$ 42.25M, of which US$ 20M is expected in the form of
an IDA grant, together with a loan of US$ 19M and a grant of US$ 1.25M from the African Development Bank
(AfDB). With other potential but smaller partners now beginning to show interest, it is hoped that the final
amount available for the project will rise above the present US$ 42.25M. Approximately 85% of these resources
will be dedicated to the rehabilitation of the school system via grants that will be implemented by service
providers; and 15% will be devoted to building the capacity of the Ministry.
Of the resources allocated for grants, 50% will be devoted to civil works, 40 % to goods and 10% to consulting
services and training. Of the resources allocated to capacity building, 30% will be for goods and equipment, 50 %
will be for consulting and training services and 20% will be for operating costs.
Conclusion
Please be assured that the project outlined in this letter is a top priority for a new government which included in its
Manifesto - 2002 targets whose achievements are very, dependent on the successful implementation of the
REBEP.
The foregoing being our description of Sierra Leone's Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project (REBEP-SL) and
its importance to the government, we look forward to receiving your positive response to what is proposed and the
continued good relationship between the World Bank and Sierra Leone.
Alpha T. Wurie,
Minister of Education, Science and Technology
- 121 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 31919
This map was produced by the                   12-'                             110
Map Design Unit of The World Bonk  G  U  I N  E  A
The boundaries, colors, denominations              -  -   -  -   - -                                         10
and anyother information shown on
this map do not imply, on the part of
The World Bank Group, any ludgment                                     Falaba <            t
on the legalstatus of any territory, or               /
any endorsement or acceptance of
such boundaries
er     X                    (E,~~~~~~~   ~   ~~Ka6ala  J     G U I N E A
akwie  Fad  0              Kamran0 
90                                                                                               9'~~~~~~~~~~~~
S)  \ Wr oMamkeni    i            Je                Warado k
KallongboO'        P  t LokoKamaron                                                         )
.Lungi\*~e          ae   sr    ,j'                Mottok    oinelJl          K 0 N 0    Kainkordu)    r
Fo6croh                       B CXK O L A L I Guceo
ARE    R.Y.,                                               '1. rlaa,s....r%~kang
~~  ~~~ti ,                  0Pen\dem6/uPnd4Su                                       J 
<e                       OSe~~~~~~~~~~~~Bm6ouno>J_ q c, 
7,~    REHABILITTON OF
0                       M~~~<H O ake ab    Iueu                 Worodu             C
Kol           SIRR        L   ON                              oFaa
-MBASIC EDUCATION                                     -               , 
L. I-          Jo am  u-k'dou
F.,VED RO45~D               -                                      1 . 
o    StiECTED tITlES ,.ND TOsvNS                                   ; 
;3   DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                       *.: 1i1E   -
*     NATIONAL CAPITAL    -      ATLANTIC               s,,>_r
-      IS1R'ICI BsOUNDARIES                   -F"~reewr. SIERRAL 
- - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAIiIES         CEAN                                            .., ,;:    t
,                 '.-.  7o-, ,na ,                                                                 TO .  i
p .M                                                                                           2002
Pend ~ ~ ~  ~   A 20









OMAGINI
Report No.:        23413   SL
Type:     PAD



