SUMMARY OF THE MAIN FINDINGS
AND PROPOSED MITIGATION
MEASURES OF AN
ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
E582
PREPARED BY
REYNOLD GODFREY JOHNSON
(LEAD CONSULTANT)
FOR
MINISTRY OF YOUTH, EDUCATION AND SPORTS
PUBLIC CONSULTATION
FREETOWN, SIERRA LEONE.
February, 2002
FILE COPY



Table of Contents
Acronyms                                                     3
Executive Summary                                            4
Introduction                                                 6
Description of Project                                       7
Description of the Areas of Influence                        8
Environmental Assessment                                     16
Description of the Legal, Regulatory and                     16
Administrative Frameworks
Methodology of Techniques Used in Assessing and              17
Analyzing the Impacts
Consultations with Affected People                           19
Description of the Environmental and Social Impacts          20
Proposed Mitigation Measures                                 21
Potential Environmental and Social Impacts of Increased Provision  25
of Water Supply and Sanitation Facilities
Proposed Institution Framework for Environment and           26
Social Management
Environment and social monitoring plans                      27
Recommendations                                              27
Persons and Institutions Contacted                           28
References                                                   28
Annex                                                        29
2



Acronyms
MYES       Ministry of Youth, Education and Sports
EPA        Environmental Protection Act
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
NCRRR      National Commission for Rehabilitation Reconstruction and
Resettlement
OCHA       Organization for the Coordination of Humanitarian Assistance
WB         World Bank
EA         Environmental Assessment
DTE        Department of the Environment
MLHCPE     Ministry of Lands, Housing, Country Planing and the Environment.
This draft report is an output of an Environmental Assessment project executed
by a team of consultants in collaboration and on behalf of the Ministry of Youth
Education and Sports. The assessment report was prepared by Dr. Reynold
Johnson (Lead Consultant).
3



Executive Summary
The purpose of this EA was to assess the potential environmental and social
impacts of the project components, particularly with regard to construction
activities (i.e. school buildings) and the redeployment of teachers.
The project will have national coverage and priority districts will be determined at
appraisal. The EA was conducted in three possible districts, Kailahun, Kono and
Kambia, together with the Western Area. The three districts were severely
affected by the civil conflict which ravaged the country for the past ten years.
Kailahun and Kono districts were more or less the hottest spots whilst Kambia
only severely suffered in the last two years. However, the level of destruction of
public facilities and the environment in the three districts are high according to
various reports, personal communications and the site visits. The Western Area
was chosen because it clearly contrasts with the other three districts in terms of
physical damage to educational infrastructures, environmental degradation, and
institutional arrangements for impact management. Appropriate consultations
with affected groups, local communities and NGO's were undertaken during the
preparation of the EA in order to assess the level of destruction of educational
facilities in the different areas.
The possible impacts of the project on the environment identified by the EA
include landscaping; creation of open pits; production of construction waste
materials; pollution; and, miscellaneous impacts. Measures have been identified
by the EA that shall be adopted to avoid, reduce or remedy all significant adverse
impacts on the environment.
Recommendations
i.  Construction of buildings should be in accordance with existing building
codes and enhanced provisions to reduce overcrowdings and discomfort
to both staff and pupils.
ii. Adequate toilet facilities should be provided with a proper waste disposal
system.
4



iii. No entertainment centers should be allowed near the educational facilities
although the facilities itself could be used for such activities as an income
generating activity.
The environmental analysis concluded that there are no significant environmental
issues related to this project. The proposed project sites are not likely to be
affected by or likely to affect national parks, natural reserves and national
monuments as they have been completely destroyed during the rebel war.
Furthermore, the proposed project sites are existing school sites and are in
conformity with the local development plans and are in accordance with the
provisions of the National Environmental Protection Act 2000, and the Labor and
Public Health Acts. The findings of the EA show that the project was well
conceived and environmental concerns seemed to have been taken into
consideration implicitly. In conclusion, the environmental impacts of the project
are insignificant and manageable.
5



Introduction
An Independent Environmental Assessment (EA) covered the following:
i. Increase access to schools including rehabilitation and reconstruction of
damaged primary and junior secondary schools facilities and provision of
water supply and sanitation.
ii. Improving the quality of education which includes the reintegration of
teachers.
iii. Enhancing institutional capacity of the Ministry of Youth, Education and
Sports (MYES).
A team of consultants and field workers based in Sierra Leone (part of a national
consulting working group) has completed the task in accordance with the World
Bank's safeguard policies.
The school rehabilitation programme has not yet commenced since MYES is
currently seeking funding from the World Bank (WB) with regards to the above
(i), (ii) and (iii).
Purpose and Requirement of the Environmental Assessment
The purpose of the EA is to address in detail the environmental and socio-
economic issues associated with all phases of rehabilitation and reconstruction of
damaged primary and junior secondary school facilities and construction of
additional schools on existing sites, as well as the provision of water supply and
sanitation. The EA includes a full environmental, socio-economic and socio-
cultural assessment of potential impacts of the above activities in the future and
appropriate mitigation and monitoring plans. It is also intended to satisfy all
requirements of the national and local authorities.
Appropriate consultations with affected groups, local communities and non-
governmental organisations (NGO's) has been undertaken during the preparation
of the EA.
6



Public disclosure of the EA will be by public meetings and distribution of a
summary to all affected parties, local communities and NGO's. The EA and its
executive summary will also be placed in the WB's public information centre in
Washington D.C as well as in its country office in Freetown.
Description of Project
The project has three components:
i.   Increasing access to schools which includes rehabilitation and
reconstruction of damaged primary and junior secondary facilities; and
construction of additional primary and junior secondary schools on existing
sites.
ii.  Improving the quality of education which includes the reintegration of
teachers.
iii.  Enhancing institutional capacity of the MYES which includes a
capacity development program for strengthening key units of the Ministry.
The proposed project will expand access to basic education for all children by
rehabilitating schools on existing sites and by providing schooling opportunities
for underserved or displaced children through the expansion of rapid education
and/or emergency education programs.
In addition to making provisions in various areas of the sector, the proposed
project will also support the reintegration of teachers. The government is aware
of the fact that teacher training institutions do not have the capacity to meet the
expected increase in demand. One option available to the government is
resettlement of teachers that are returning to Sierra Leone and those that have
been displaced within the country. The MYES is preparing a plan for processing
returning teacher candidates and for providing some assistance (incentives) for
teachers willing to resettle in remote rural areas. Resettlement costs may include
transportation of a teacher and family to the village where a school is located as
well as some resources for setting up household on arrival. Most of the project-
assisted schools would be located in the provinces and rural districts. Rural
7



areas tend to be the most underserved because teachers prefer assignments in
urban areas.
Objective of the Environmental Analysis
It is the purpose of the environmental analysis (EA) to assess the potential
environmental and social impacts of the project components, particularly with
regard to construction activities and the reintegration of teachers.
Description of the Areas of Influence
For the purposes of this EA, we analyzed three possible districts, Kailahun,
Kambia and Kono, and the Western Area. The three districts were severely
affected by the civil conflict which ravaged the country for the past ten years.
Kailahun and Kono districts were more or less the hottest spots whilst Kambia
only severely suffered in the last two years. However, the level of destruction of
public facilities and the environment in the three districts are high according to
various reports, communications as well as site visits.
The three districts that were severely affected by the civil conflict which ravaged
the country for the past ten years. Kailahun and Kono districts were more or less
the hottest spots whilst Kambia only severely suffered in the last two years. The
level of destruction of public facilities and the environment in the three districts
are high according to various reports and communications as well as site visits.
There is a clear desire from the Ministry of Youth, Education and Sports to cover
these districts as well as the Western Area. The Western Area was chosen
because it clearly contrasts with the three districts in terms of physical damage,
educational infrastructure, environmental degradation, institutional arrangements
for impact management and capacity to handle management options.
Social Structure
The social structure of the districts covered by the EA are similar, except for the
Western Area. In the districts there are chiefdoms, each of which are ruled locally
by chiefs representing the various tribes in the chiefdom. The paramount chief is
the overall local head of a chiefdom. The chiefdom council are made up of tribal
8



authorities (chiefdom councilors) which is set up to administer the chiefdoms and
to advise the paramount chief which in turn coordinates with the district councils.
Headmen head the villages and village area committees administer the villages.
The lowest level is the household level.
It is important to understand this social structure for the development of
environmental management strategies for the educational sector. In the Western
area, the administration is under the supervision of the Freetown city council
(FCC) which in turn coordinates with the various villages committees in the rural
areas, tribal headmen and district council.
Kailahun District
Physical Characteristics
The Kailahun district is located in the eastern province of Sierra Leone. The
District is bordered on the north by the Republic of Guinea and on the southeast
by the Republic of Liberia along the Mano river. It covers an area of 1,490 sq.
miles.
The topography of the area is undulating, ranging from lowlying inland plains to
more disserted upland areas with elevation between 600-700 meters altitude.
Most of the area has an average annual rainfall of over 2,500 mm, with 80% of
this average falling during the period of June to November, average annual
temperatures vary between 25°C and 28°C with higher values occurring in
March/April when solar radiation is most intense.
In terms of vegetation, the district is covered with dense farm bush dominated by
fast growing, fire resistant species that thrive under the bush fallow system.
The district also has over 5,000 acres of forests reserves and protected forest
areas (Gola rainforest). High trees traditionally surround many of the villages
and are used as shade for cocoa and coffee. However, most of these forest
reserves had been tampered with by the war.
9



Administration
The administrative headquarter is in the town of Kailahun and the provincial
headquarter office is located in Kenema. Kailahun is about 270 miles from
Freetown. Administratively Kailahun is divided into fourteen (14) chiefdoms.
Socio-Economic Activities
The Kailahun district had a population of about 200,000 with about 60% of this
number living in the headquarter town of Kailahun. The district was
predominantly inhabited by the Mendes although traditionally a Kissi dominated
area. The minority tribes include the Krim, Vai and Gola inhabiting areas along
the border with Liberia.
The major economic activities in the area were agriculture, mining and hunting,
major cash crops like coffee cacao used to fetch a sizeable proportion of Sierra
Leone's foreign exchange earnings.
Presently, as a result of rebel war, mass migration of the people to neighboring
countries of Guinea and Liberia had taken place as well as to other parts of the
country (internally displaced). Currently, the district is gradually coming under the
control of the government of Sierra Leone.
Estimates of the current population are between 10,000-20,000 (not wholly
reliable figures). Commercial activity in the area is low mainly restricted to the
provision of services.
Educational And Other Infrastructure Facilities
The Kailahun district and the town of Kailahun in particular used to have several
primary and secondary schools, hospitals, medical centers, churches, and
mosques. However, all these facilities have been destroyed during the ten years
of civil war as reports from various organizations (both governmental and non-
governmental) suggests.
10



Kono District
Physical Characteristics
The Kono district is located in the eastern province of Sierra Leone. The district is
bordered on the north by Koinadugu district, on the east by the Republic of
Guinea, the southeast by Kailahun and Kenema districts and in the west by
Tonkolili and Moyamba districts.
This area has a topography characterized by hill to the east and low land covered
with savanna grassland to the north. Inland valley swamps occupy a vast area of
the district and are relatively fertile.
The climate of the area is typical of the eastern region of Sierra Leone. This area
has a average annual rainfall of over 250 mm, 80% occurring between May and
November. Average monthly air temperature ranges between 25°C and 28°C.
In terms of biological diversity, the district is now covered in most parts by low
grassland and most of the forest cover that has been lost was due to intense
mining activities and the rebel war.
Wild life is poor, restricted to a limited species of birds and other wild animals e.g.
monkeys.
Administration
The Kono District comprises fourteen (14) chiefdoms. The headquarter town is
Koindu which is also the administrative headquarter town.
Socio-Economic Activities
The population of Kono district (1985, census) was estimated to be around 7,000
with density of 69 persons per square kilometer. Presently, the population of the
district has not been fully determined as it is only now, that government authority
is gradually returning to the area.



The main economic activity centers around mining of diamonds which is widely
believed to be the dominant source of funding for the ten year old brutal civil war
the country experienced.
Agricultural activity is modest in the area as the land for most part has been
degraded by mining activities with little or no rehabilitation. Most of the soils are
ferralitic shallow and a low fertility, except for the inland valley swamps which are
relatively fertile. Presently, rebels still control almost all of the district and there is
little commercial or other related activities taking place in the district.
Educational And Other Infrastructure Facilities
As the scene of intense military activities throughout the ten years of civil conflict,
there is hardly any educational facility in the district. All schools were destroyed
as well as hospitals and public services infrastructure. Water storage and
delivery facilities have also been destroyed. Roads are in deplorable conditions
and sanitation is poor. Infrastructure damage in the district was almost absolute.
Kambia District
Physical Characteristics
The Kambia district is located in the northern province of Sierra Leone. It is
bordered on the north and northeast by the Republic of Guinea, Bombali and
Port Loko districts, on the south and west by the Republic of Guinea and the
Atlantic ocean. It covers an area of about 1,100 sq. miles.
The topography of the district is mainly dominated by low lying plains with heights
between 50 and 250 feet. The drainage system of the great and little scarcies
rivers lie within the district.
The Kambia district has an average annual rainfall of over 3000 mm. The bulk of
the rains falls during the rainy season as in most parts of country. Average
annual temperatures lie between 250C and 200C.
The district is covered mainly by low shrubs and grassland. In the proximity of the
scarcies, mangrove swamps dominate but have been severely degraded to make
way for rice cultivation.
12



Administration
The administrative headquarter is Kambia Town. The provincial headquarter
office is located in Makeni. Kambia district is divided into seven (7) chiefdoms.
Socio-Economic Activities
Kambia district is dominated by such activities as agriculture, fishing and hunting.
Petty trading (commerce) is also an important economic activity as the district
lies on the border with the Republic of Guinea. The district is a major producer of
swamp rice. Upland rice production is also important in the area.
This district was first attacked by the RUF and AFRC forces in 1995 and was
subsequently occupied by the RUF forces in 1999. This resulted in widespread
displacement of the civilian population some of which fled to neighboring
Republic of Guinea. The district was under the RUF until may 2001 when a
formal agreement was reached paving the way for RUF's withdrawal from the
district.
Presently the district is gradually coming under government control with the
return of a sizeable number of internally as well as externally displaced people.
Commercially activity has resumed and the government is in the process of
restoring essential services in the area.
Educational And Other Infrastructure Facilities
With regards to educational facilities, school structures appears to be intact in the
chiefdoms. In the town of Kambia town, all schools were burnt down. Those
remaining structures need to be renovated as they have either cracked walls or
damaged roofs. Other infrastructure facilities such as health, water and sanitation
also need to be restored and rehabilitated.
Western Area
Physical Characteristics
The western Area is one of the four-main physical divisions of Sierra Leone and
is situated between latitude 8° 5' and 8° 30' and longitudes 130 00' and 130 15'
13



west. It covers an area of about 110 square miles. It has a population estimated
in 229,759 (1974), 168,186 are adults, 6182 of them being engaged in
agricultural pursuits.
It falls naturally into two main physical divisions, the Eastern or low-lying area
which is bounded on the North by Koya Chiefdom, the East by the Songo Creek,
South by the Ribbi River and Yawri Bay, on the West by the Western or Mountain
region which itself forms the other main physical region.
Relief and Drainage
The Peninsula mountains of the Western Area near Freetown are the result of a
large basic intrusion of Norite and Gabbro probably of Cambrian age. The
present youthful topography with its strongly dissected mountain range rising up
to almost 3,000 feet (Picket Hill, 2912 feet) has resulted from a relatively recent
uplift, possibly of tertiary times. They stretch for some 23 miles into the Banana
Island south of Freetown. Around the base of these hills, a large number of
erosional platforms have been carved which present excellent pastures during
the wet season.
The Eastern or low-lying region is made up of undulating plains, which have been
described as "Raised Beaches". This presumes that much of what is, for example
Freetown, is below the sea. These raised beaches increase in size as they
approach the Bunce River in the north and Yawri Bay in the south. After
Waterloo, they merge into the Interior Plains and Plateaux, another physical
region of Sierra Leone.
The Western Area is drained by a large number of short and swift flowing
streams and rivers which rise from the Peninsula mountains. These flows are
mountain torrents during the tropical rains becoming virtually dry in the dry
season. As they reach the Costal plains they flow through gorges 25 to 50 feet to
empty themselves into the sea. Notable among these are the Orugu, No.2,
Whale and Sussex rivers.
14



Rainfall
The Western Area experiences a dual seasonal rainfall pattern, a dry season
lasting from November to April and a wet season lasting from May to October.
During the wet season over 90% of the rainfalls ocurred between Aberdeen and
Kent. In the dry season only a trace amount falls . Rainfall decreases inland and
with a decreasing height above sea level. In the mountainous areas over 200
inches of rainfalls in a single year. In the Costal areas between 180 and 200
inches of rainfall is registered annually. Inland rainfall decreases as low as 120
inches annually.
The average maximum temperature registered at a meteorological station in
Freetown was 85.70F and the average minimum temperature was 76.90F. Such a
pattern can be said to represent the general temperature system in the Western
Area.
Soils
The soils of the Western Area are classified under three major groupings: Soils
of the Peninsula mountains, Soils of the Coastal swamps and Soils of the raised
beaches and terraces.
The soils of the peninsula mountains have been formed from Norite and Gabbro
which are rich in iron. Under high rainfall and a pronounced dry season, this is an
optimum environment for plinthite formation which is abundantly present in the
form of gravel, boulders or hardpan. On the steep slopes, very stony soils are
shallow over bed-rock. On the foot slopes of the mountains and on the erosional
platforms, soils have developed that have less than six inches of surface soil
over hard, impenetrable highly indurated plainthite sheet. In some valleys, small
areas of thick gravel-free soils are present. These colluvial soils are very valuable
especially for vegetable growing in the dry season and are now being used for
swamp rice cultivation in the Wet season.
15



Environmental Assessment
Past Situation
Since independence, there have been educational institutions. The sites where
the educational institutions were located were initially acquired by the Ministry of
Education. New sites were acquired and new schools built on a demand driven
basis. However, destruction of these schools were systematically carried out
during the ten-year civil war.
A rapid assessment conducted in 1996 by the MYES revealed that extensive
damage including buildings burnt down, schools looted, including removal of
sheet roofing, doors and windows, removal or destruction of furniture and
equipment, and loss of teaching materials. Buildings not directly damaged by
vandalism had deteriorated because lack of maintenance or abandonment due to
frequent attacks or threats.
Current Situation
Schools need to be rehabilitated and/or reconstructed on existing sites. The
national school survey completed in December 2001 confirmed that of a total
4,854 schools, as much as 34.7% need to be reconstructed and 52.4% need to
be either repaired or rehabilitated. Only 12.9% are usable in their current
condition. The proposed project sites are not likely to be affected by, or likely to
affect, national parks, nature reserves, and national monuments since all of these
structures have been completely destroyed by the war.
The selection of existing school sites will follow a participatory planning exercise
based on school base line data collected during preparation, and in consultation
with NGOs, missions, district representatives and chiefdom authorities. Final
approval of school sites selection will be done by the MYES and the project
steering committee.
Description of the Legal, Regulatory and Administrative Framework
The proposed project and sites are in conformity with the local development
plans and is demand driven as there is no evidence of a concrete development
16



plan at the local level due of the emergence from a war situation. The project and
the sites are in accordance with the provisions of the National Environmental
Protection Act 2000 and the Labor and Public Health Acts.
Methodology and Techniques Used in Assessing and Analyzing the
Impacts
Sampling
A combination of purposeful and random sampling techniques were used.
Multistage stratification was used based on the following clusters:
* Stage 1     Provincial
* Stage 2     District
* Stage 3     Chiefdom
* Stage 4     Villages
The first stage of stratification - the provincial level - was purposefully chosen
since all the provinces and Western Area were affected by the ten year rebel war
and educational structures were damaged. These are:
* Eastern Province
* Southern Province
* Northern Province
* Western Area
The next stage or stratum was at the district level. These were chosen because
they reflect a homogeneous setting in terms of socio-economic activities and the
impact of the war was more significant..
The third stage of stratification was performed depending on the basis of
damaged educational structures as examined during the site visits.
The fourth stage involved the villages/settlements in each administration area in
the Western Area in which site visits revealed the level of damaged educational
structures.
17



Both primary and secondary data were collected. Purpose for on site data
collection was to:
i. Assess overall damage of educational structures
ii. Level of damage, i.e. total, partial
iii. Assess level of environmental damage
The secondary data was collected from the MYES, NCRRR, OCHA, etc.
The primary data collection was undertaken primarily to provide field data to
enable the consultants to fulfil the objective of the project. Secondly, it was used
to double check some of the information gathered from secondary sources.
The information collected was used to assess the potential environmental and
social impacts of the components of construction activities and redeployment of
teachers.
Environmental Analysis
The environmental analysis covered the issues as provided in the Draft Terms of
Reference (DTOF).
Data Collection
Both primary and secondary data were collected.
Primary Data
Site visits: Visits to the identified sites were conducted. Structured questionnaires
were administered. The information was related to the following issues:-
* Assessment of potential environmental and social impacts of construction
activities in the urban areas.
* Assessment of the environmental and social impacts of increased
provisions of water supply and sanitation facilities.
* Assessment of the need for liquid and solid waste collection, disposal and
management.
18



Secondary Data
Desktop research and visits: Information on previous related assessments were
collected from various sources/institutions (e.g. MYES, NCRRR, OCHA, NGO's)
to complement the actual assessment.
The information sought were related to the following:-
* Biophysical characteristics of the environment in the rural area/ urban
covered by the project.
* Review the national environmental policies and regulatory legislation.
* Administrative framework together with the WB's safeguard policies.
Consultations with Affected People
Consultations with communities in the Kailahum, Kono and Kambia districts were
facilitated by the regional environmental officers based in Kenema in the east
and PortLoko in the north respectively. Structured questionnaires were used to
obtain information for the environmental analysis.
The team visited the Kailahum, Kono, Kambia districts and sites in the Western
Area. The principal aim of the visits was to assess the level of destruction of
educational facilities in these districts, the Western Area and their surrounding
areas. At the various districts, the team held a meeting with the paramount chiefs
of the main chiefdoms.
The whole assignment provided the team with first hand experience. It was clear
that the project will not concentrate on the construction of large buildings, but will
undertake the rehabilitation and construction on existing sites of small primary
and junior secondary schools. The extent of the project will determine the extent
of environmental degradation which according to the responses can be
managed.
Interested and Affected Persons and Organistions
Expansion of access to basic education for all children through the reconstruction
or rehabilitation of school infrastructure will affect the communities of Kailahun,
Kono and Kambia districts. It is considered that schools that need rehabilitation
19



should be rehabilitated at least to the pre-war situation. It is hoped that schools
belonging to this category would be referred to the National Commission for
Rehabilitation, Reconstruction and Resettlement (NCRRR) in Freetown.
Description of the Environmental and Social Impacts
The EA has identified a number of possible impacts of the project of the
environment. These include:
* Landscaping
* Creation of open pits
* Production of construction waste materials
* Pollution
* Landscaping
The construction of classrooms would require the clearing of land cover and
landscaping. The establishment of foundations for the buildings would require
earth removal and soil modification. The environment issues relating to
landscaping are related to land cover change, dust pollution and noise amongst
others.
* Creation of Open Pits
Open pits are often associated with construction sites. These pits are created
during landscaping for laying of building foundation, construction of toilets and
water delivery and storage facilities. If not well protected, these pits can pose
threats to lives, can cause injuries and can also inadvertently serve as rubbish
dumps as well as mosquito breeding sites if left to collect water.
* Production of Construction Waste Materials
The construction of buildings for schools and support structures produces waste
materials which have to be safely disposed at identified dump sites. These
materials may include scrap metals, nails, pieces of wood, glass broken cement
blocks etc. if not properly disposed, they may cause personal injury. The
decorative phase may produce such wastes such as paint, oil, etc. which might
find their way into nearby streams polluting them.
20



* Pollution
The project is likely to cause pollution of the environment in terms of noise
associated with construction works. Pollution can also be caused as a result of
the abandoning and poor disposal of paint materials. Dust associated with earth
preparation for foundation of building can impair the quality of air around
construction sites.
* Miscellaneous Impacts
There are a few issues such as noise, dust, visual impact which may require
mitigation, none are considered significant, but will be covered within the
framework of the National Environmental Action Plan which will ensure
appropriate controls and monitoring where necessary.
Strategic Mitigation Measures
The Ministry should assume a more definitive and strategic role in responding to
the needs of the local population. This requires making sure that the schools
which are demand driven from the communities place the communities in a better
position socially if not economically as a result of reconstruction and rehabilitation
activities.
Proposed Mitigation Measures
This section attempts to provide a detailed account of measures that shall be
adopted to avoid, reduce or remedy all those significant adverse impacts as
identified in the section dealing with environmental social impacts of the
proposed project.
* Landscaping Measures
Restoration of the construction sites will be carried through tree planting as an
erosion control measure and water control measure. A tree nursery site will be
maintained and replanting schemes put in place in deforested areas. Local
NGO's will be involved together with future pupils in the schools in tree planting
exercises. The planted trees will assist in water management by reducing land
21



surface evaporation rates and by regulating infiltration rate during the rainy
season by reducing surface runoff through interception.
* Creation of Open Pits
The pit created as a result of excavation for construction and other purposes can
be refilled after construction or building. Nearby materials can be used for this
purpose.
* Production of Construction Waste Materials
A clean up program will have to be put in place. This should involve clearing
dangerous materials like nails, pieces of timber, broken blocks, scattered sand
and gravel, pieces of iron, mortar mixing, waste water, saw dust etc., and
especially where recycling or reuse is possible. E.g. saw dust can be used as
manure in the experimental school gardens.
* Deforestation & Loss of Biodiversity
Most of the forests and biodiversity have been tampered by the war. Tree
planting and reforestation activities would be embarked upon through community
groups, NGO's in Environmental Management and Area Development
Associations (ADAs) and school nature/environmental clubs.
* Pollution
This is more relevant at the construction stage of the project and is expected to
be minimized once the schools become fully operational. The noise from school
children at play can be controlled through disciplinary codes of conduct within the
school system. Post construction/building materials should be cleared and
properly disposed. Residual paint can be used in arts & crafts classes. Dust
pollution should be reduced after post construction era, through paving of alleys
and covering of feeder roads with tar, and planting of carpet grass on playing
fields.
22



* Preservation of Monuments and Sites of Historic Values
Efforts shall be made to preserve monuments and sites of historic value in the
vicinity of the proposed project sites. This however is not a pressing issue as
these structures are absent at the currently proposed sites.
* Identification of Applicable and Effective Measures to Prevent
Accidents Involving Hazardous Substances
At the construction phase of the project(s), protective head and body gear will be
worn to protect workers from contact with hazardous materials or substances in
accordance to building safety regulations. Information and training of workers will
also complement this issue.
Specific mitigating measures are associated with various constructional activities
that impact on the local populations. These include the following:-
* Reintegration of Teachers
In the consultation process the aspect of teacher relocation and reintegration was
not an issue, thus there was no social impact associated with it. One strategy for
resettlement of returnees would be to encourage recommencement of farming
activities and the restoration of the capacity to produce food. This should be
stimulated by input of the seeds and other planting materials. To engender self-
reliance food for work policy should be encouraged as an incentive.
* Employment of Villagers
MYES will review the opportunities for extending preferential employment
amongst the local indigenous population for positions for which they are qualified.
It is clear that MYES will need to draw on those best qualified in order to optimise
the start-up construction works and teaching in the medium and long terms.
Preference will be given to local employment for the unskilled jobs that will
support the cleanup as well as basic educational activities.
23



Social Programmes
The survey showed that several community groups will need special form of
assistance to enable them recover from the effect of the war. These groups
include the traumatized i.e. those who actually witnessed atrocities, those who
were temorized a special gender bias group i.e. the violated women. Special
programmes such as trauma healing and counseling has been identified. Rough
estimates show that women and children constitute 65% of the affected people.
Capacity Building
The rehabilitation and reconstruction activities require capacity building. The
perception of the communities in which the schools are to be reconstructed or
rehabilitated in all three district and parts of the Western Area are that these
activities will engender their participation. This will enhance their capabilities and
capacities. Special skills can be developed such as block laying masonry,
carpentry and painting. Others will be involved in beautification exercises. All
these will enable them to be self-reliant. The Ministry of Youth Education and
Sports (MYES) in collaboration with other development partners will provide the
necessary support.
Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
The area of the EA has some NGO'S operating in the vicinity.
These organizations operate in the shelter, health, water and sanitation, food and
agriculture, relief etc. sectors. Although these NGO'S operate in designated
areas, their influence will enhance settlement activities.
Impact on Local Economy
In the short term, the influx of job seekers may bring some problems to the local
sites as there will be competition for limited jobs. The areas to which these
workers will move are those villages or location close to the construction sites
which suffered.destruction during the rebel war. This will put pressure on the
already limited food supply and social services. MYES will work with local
authorities to address these problems and identify possible solutions. To support
the overall development of the region MYES will establish working relationships
24



with relevant ministries and development agencies to attract development
support.
Potential Environmental and Social Impacts of Increased Provision of
Water Supply and Sanitation Facilities
Currently in the areas covered in the EA, there are very poor sanitary conditions
as well as environmental degradation resulting from unhealthy refuse and
sewage disposal system, as well as poor sources of drinking water.
The results of the EA show that health status of communities covered is very low.
Water borne diseases are common particularly in areas that derive their drinking
water from streams or make use of bush and streams for toilet purposes and
sewage disposal.
It is against this backdrop that the increased provisions for water supply and
sanitation facilities would be seen to have a positive impact on the communities
around the educational institutions. Most of the areas covered by the EA reported
either having a well or pipe borne water before rebel assaults. Aside from
Gorama Kono chiefdom, all other chiefdoms had wells before the war.
The chiefdoms covered by the EA in the various districts and wards in the
Western area reported having pit latrines. They however occasionally used
village streams and the bush for sewage disposal. At present over 50% of these
latrines were completed destroyed. For the purpose of resettlement of returnees
and rehabilitation there is urgent need of not only restoring the old pit latrine, but
constructing new ones to correspond with the returning population and basic
hygiene education.
Another potential impact of increased provision of water supply and sanitation
facilities, therefore, is the reduction of diseases like malaria, diarrhea, dysentery,
bilharzia, lassa fever, measles, polio etc.
Impact on the Water and Public Health
Construction activities would require water for mortar mixing, bathing, laundering,
drinking etc. The clearing and preparation of the land will increase river and
25



stream sediment loadings through soil erosion and transported sediments (dust).
Noise will also become an issue at the construction sites. The release of
sediments into streams and rivers will have an impact on any existent
ecosystems such as mangroves.
Aside from these negative impacts the project provides for increased provisions
of water supply and sanitation facilities. Apart from the overall positive impact of
this proposal, the provision will cause an influx of the local people into the
proposed project site inorder to make use of these facilities. This may lead to
conflicts and misuse of such facilities.
It is therefore recommended that the following activities should be embarked
upon:
* Mass sensitization on purpose and use of such facilities.
* Restriction to the use of such facilities by people associated with the
educational facility.
* Community protection plans for public facilities.
* Provision of similar facilities for other communities.
Need for Liquid and Solid Waste Collection and Management.
Generation and disposal of liquid and solid wastes can impair the quality of the
environment as well as create health problems. Adequate arrangements should
therefore be made for the collection and disposal of liquid and solid wastes.
Monitoring programmes should be put in place to avoid water contamination and
outbreak of disease
PROPOSED INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
The national and local institutional framework for environmental management
and protection is the overall structure which is designed to protect, conserve and
restore our environment.
26



The social structure in each district described earlier is important for the
development of environmental management strategy at the local level therefore,
any proposed institutional framework should take cognizance of this structure.
Environmental and social management at the local level is for now carried out by
Community Based Organisations (CBOs) and Non-Governmental Organisations
(NGOs) which operate through local groups, mainly youths. Environmental
Management activities are often associated with reforestation programmes,
sensitization and regulation enforcement. These CBOs and NGOs are co-
ordinated by the Department of the Environment which has posted environmental
officers to Northern, Southern and Eastern regions of the Country.
At the chiefdom levels the community groups are often empowered to arrest
people who degrade the environment and pose threat to the health and wealth of
the community.
The proposed framework therefore envisages a bottom - up approach where in
the local communities will be assisted to develop and execute projects related to
mitigation measures identified in the EA.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MONITORING INDICATORS
There are a number of environmental and social monitoring indicators, which
includes among others amount of land brought under construction of schools,
number of stand pipes provided for water supply, number of pit or flush latrines
and types of plant and animal species lost as a result of the construction
activities, number of bins, dump sites number of health workers, volume of litter
garbage generated and collected per day.
The social indicators include: Employment rates, access to basic social services,
and economic governance.
An analysis of the above indicators show that, the amount of land required for the
project activities is not significant. The prevailing vegetation is shrub and farm
27



bush with an insignificant variety of wildlife amongst which are monkeys, wild
pigs, grass cutters etc.
Some of the above indicators can be used during the project implementation
phase. These could include but not restricted to:
* number and size of open pits can be used during construction.
* number and types of plants and animals destroyed, lost or displaced
during construction.
On the social front the indicators can include:
* number of laborers employed
* level of remuneration for employees
* amount and type of sanitation facilities provided
* number of local people trained in various skills of construction during the
project
* types of water contaminated disease
the Potential EA training needs should therefore include although not restricted to
the following:
i. rapid appraisal methods in determining for environmental quality.
(Estimated cost U$D 5,000)
ii. use of checklists in assessing the success of mitigating measures
(Estimated costs U$D 5,000)
iii. training in taxonomy and bioprospecting (Estimated U$D 10,000)
iv. skills training in masonry, carpentry, welding, brick laying etc (Estimated
costs U$D 100,000).
ENVIROMENTAL AND SOCIAL MONITORING PLANS
Management Goals And Objectives.
28



The main goal of this plan in to aid the management of school and other
educational infrastructure, so that adverse effects on the localities and physical
environment and any other adjacent socio-economic activities are minimized.
The objectives of the plans are to:
* Ensure proper choice and delineation of specific sites based on a set of
physical and socio-economic criteria where the erection of such facilities
could be permitted.
* Identity alternative, potential areas
* Recommend standards and guide lines for construction activities
* Recommend improvements to the procedures for lease, secure tenure,
and monitoring
Environmental Guidelines For School Construction
At present the Department of the Environment (DTE) is in the process of
preparing sector guidelines for 'scooping' and environmental impact study
phases of the Environmental impact Assessment (EIA) process. These
guidelines will represent the general possible areas for investigation in Sierra
Leone.
The guidelines provided below represent the general possible areas for
investigation relating to school construction. It must be noted that in many
instances, specific guidelines do not exist for certain types of projects.
* Description of the project including purpose and physical characteristics,
land use requirements, construction requirements and alternative sites
and processes considered.
* Description of the site and its environment including physical features of
the proposed site, legislative and policy framework.
* Identification and description of construction and post construction impacts
(on land, water resources, flora and fauna etc.)
* Significance of impacts
29



* Mitigating measures
* Monitoring and evaluation
Specific points to consider within the above guidelines may include but not
restricted to:
Recommendations
i. Construction of buildings should be in accordance with existing building
codes and enhanced provisions to reduce overcrowdings and discomfort
to both staff and pupils.
ii. Adequate toilet and water facilities should be provided with a proper waste
disposal system.
iii. No entertainment centers should be allowed near the educational facilities
although the facilities itself could be used for such activities as an income
generating activity.
iv. Construction of educational facilities should be prohibited near shrines,
densely populated zones and very close to industries.
General Guidelines
• Sensitive area should be identified and classified based on their
biophysical characteristics, and made to planning and approving
committees/agencies, that these are unsuitable areas for construction of
educational facilities
* Depending on the size of the infrastructure and acreage of land required
the environmental impact assessment (EIA) screening process should be
applied.
GENERAL RECOMMENDATIONS
30



i. The E. A. showed that the environmental impacts are manageable,
therefore it is recommended that the project as proposed be carried out
with the mitigation measures as proposed by this summary report.
ii. That this report be made available to all stake holders involved in the
project.
31



Persons and Institutions Contacted
Department of the Environment Ministry of Lands, Housing Country Planning and
the Environment.
Ministry of Youth Education and Sports, Planning Division.
Paramount Chiefs and Elders of Kono, Kailahun and Kambia Districts and the
Western Area.
References
National Environmental Protection Act, 2000
National Environmental Policy
National Environmental Action Plan Vol. I and Vol. II
Guidelines for the implementation of school construction projects Ministry of
Education Republic of Sierra Leone, March 1997.
World Bank Safeguard policies (Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01 October
1998)).
Feedback
It is important for the EA to address all reliant environmental issues and for
MYES to have confidence that all the concern of the affected local communities
and other interested parties have been adequately discussed and appropriate
measures agreed. This page is for any comments on the environmental issue
that affect the educational sector in terms of the provision of facilities. It should
be returned to Dr. Reynold Johnson, lead consultant, c/o Department of
Geography Fourah Bay College, Mt Aureol, Freetown.
E-mail treynold12001 @yahoo.com
32



ANNEX I
Cost estimate for mitigating measures
Open pits
Estimated cost               -    US$10,000 for cover up
activities
Construction of waste disposal facilities
Estimated cost for clean up activities - US $ 15,000
Deforestation
Estimated cost for reforestation activities and incentives for
conservation practices       -     US $ 10,000
Pollution
Estimated cost US                 $ 10,000
Loss of biodiversity
Estimated costs for setting up of nature banks, parks and
reservations                 -    US $ 20,000
33



ANNEX 11
Remediating/Mitigating Plan
Activity      Obmective    Funding Source      Responsible        Estimated    Time
Organisation        Costs       Frame
Raising   of To preserve the      - do -     Non-Governmental      $10,000      Project
Plant         environmental                  Organisations, (NGOs)              duration
numeries      and   aesthetic                Government Agencies,
values  of the
land
Covering up of To ensure that      -do-      Local                 $10,000      Project
open pits     water borne and                authorities/community              duration
related diseases                groups, Govt. Agencies
are mininised
Watershed     To protect water     -do -      Local authorities, NGOs $10,000   On-going
management    bodies   within                and Govt. agencies
project  areas
from
pollution/contami
nation
Management    Evaluation  of      - do -     Environmental         $10,000
and  recovery effectiveness                  consultants, academic
of  degraded costs       and                 institutions, Govt. and
areas/environ  benefits   of                  NGOs
ments         alternatives
Environmental To ensure long-     - do -             MYES                       On-going
Education    term
environmental
management
Capacity           - do-           -do-              MYES                       On-going
34



building
Collection and To      ensure Govt.   and  its Ministry  of  Health, U$D 10,000
disposal   of regular collection development   ADAs, CBO'S
solid wastes  and disposal of partner NGO's.
solid wastes
35



ANNEX Ill
Monitoring Plan
Activity    Technical      Parameters     Methods To      Sampling        Freg. Of      Detection   Defination
Details         To Be         Be Used       Locations    Measurements      Limits         Of
Measured                                                                Thresholds
Water      Relates to      PH, BOD    &   Laboratory      Along  water One weekly
quality    pollution/      COD            analysis  (PH, course
tests      contamination                  meter     and
chemicals)
Air quality     - do -     Odour, visibility  Visual      Construction  Daily  3  hourly
observation     sites         interval
Soil       Relates     to  Soil quality   Laboratory      Construction  Monthly
quality    deforestation                  analysis for soil sites
quality
Land       Landsacaping    Biodiversity   Species  stock  Construction  Monthly
quality    deforestation   loss plant &   assessments    sites
animal species  and  taxanomic
survey
36



ANNEX IV
REGISTER OF INTERNATIONAL TREATIES AND OTHER AGREEMENTS IN
THE FIELD OF THE ENVIRONMENT 1996
NO.                SIERRA LEONE                   SIGNATURE        RATIFICATION
ACCESSION(AC)
SUCCESSION(S)
ADH ERENCE(AD)
1.   Convention on Fishing and Conservation of the     -          13 -3- 1962(S)
Living Resources of the High Seas.
2.   Convention on the High Seas.                                   13 -3 - 1962
3.   Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Test in the     4-9 - 1963      21 -2 - 1964
Atmosphere, in outer space and under water
4.   Convention on the continental shelf                -        25 - 11 - 1966(AC)
5.   Treaty on Principles Covering the Activities of state  27 - 1 - 1967
in the Exploration and the use of outer space
including the moon and other celestial bodies.
6.   Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of  11 - 2 - 1971
Nuclear Weapons and other Weapons of Mass
destruction on the Sea Bed and Ocean Floor and
in the Sub-Soil thereof.
7.   Convention  on  the   Prohibitation  of  the  24 - 11 - 1972  29 - 6 - 1979
development Production and stock piling of
Bacteriological (Biological) and toxic Weapons,
and on their destruction.
8.   Convention on the Prohibition of Military or and  12-4- 1978
other hostile use of Environmental Modification
Techniques.
9.   International Plant Protection Convention          -        23 - 6 - 1981 (AD)
10.  United Nation Convention on the Law of the Sea  10 - 12 - 1982  12 - 12 - 1994(R)
11. Agreement Relating to the Implementation of part   -         12 - 12 - 1994(P)
Xl of the United Nations Convention on the law of
the Sea of 10 Dec. 1982
37



12. Convention on Early Notification of Nuclear  25 - 3 - 1987
Accident, Left out.
13. Convention on assistance in the case of a Nuclear  25 - 3 - 1987
Accident
14. Treaty   Establishing  the  African  Economic  3-6 - 1991     12-4 - 1994
Community
15. Convention on the Prohibition of the development  15 - 1 - 93
production, stockpiling and use of chemical
Weapons and on their destruction.
16.  United Nations framework convention on climate  11 -2 - 1993  22 -6 - 1995 (R)
change.
17.  International Convention on Civil Liability for oil 13 - 8 - 93(AC)  11 - 11 - 1993
Pollution Damage.
18.  International Convention on the establishment of  -         11 - 11 - 1993
an International Fund for compensation for oil
Pollution Damage (as amended).
19. Convention on International Trade in endangered  28 - 10 - 1994  16 - 1 - 1995 (R)
species of wild fauna and Flora. (CITES)
20.  United  Nations   Convention  to   combat   11 - 11 - 1994
Desertification in those countries experiencing
serious drought.
21. Convention on Biological Diversity                -         12- 12- 1994(R)
38



