Report No. PID10709
Project Name                     Sierra Leone-Rehabilitation of Basic Education
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Primary Education; System Reform &
Capacity Building; Secondary Education
Project ID                       SLPE74320
Borrower(s)                      THE GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
Implementing Agency
Address THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION, YOUTH AND
SPORTS
Address: Ministry of Education,
Youth and Sports, Freetown, Sierra Leone
Contact Person: Dr. Alpha Wurie,
Minister of Education
Tel: 232- 22 240 137
Fax: 232- 240 881
Email:
African Development Bank
Address: 01 B.P. 1387
Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire
Contact Person: Margaret Kilo
Tel: (225) 20 20 59 96
Fax: (225) 20 20 57 10
Email: m.kilo@afdb.org
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 11, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         January 21, 2002
Projected Board Date             July 30, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Post-independence Sierra Leone has had a troubled history characterized by
ethnic strife, civil war, institutional instability and poor governance.
After witnessing growth rates of nearly 4 percent per annum during the
first decade after independence in 1961, Sierra Leone saw its economic and
social conditions deteriorate in the 1970s and in the first half of the
1980s. While external developments contributed to the decline, the
fundamental reasons were inappropriate government policies and poor
governance, fueled by the corrupting influence of illicitly mined and
traded diamonds, the increased politicization of the armed forces, the
diversion of profits and assets from State enterprises, the corrosive
effect of political clientele and patronage networks that fostered misuse
of public resources and a pervasive erosion of the public sector. Poverty
deepened and a perceived policy of exclusion bred frustration and
discontent among the youth and the population at large.A rebellion
launched by the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) in early 1991 spread
throughout the country. Successive governments failed to defeat the rebel
forces. In May 1997, a coup d'etat led by disgruntled junior army



officers, ousted the democratically-elected government of Ahmed Tejan
Kabbah after only 14 months in office. The President was reinstated in
February 1998 by the regional military forces of the Economic Community of
West African States' (ECOWAS) Military Observer Group (ECOMOG), but by the
end of the year, the security situation had deteriorated, culminating on
January 6, 1999 in a well-coordinated attack on Freetown by RUF and former
members of the Armed Forces Ruling Council (AFRC) who led the coup d'etat,
which lead to considerable loss of life and property damage. The Lome
Peace Accord was severely challenged by the events in May 2000 when the
RUF captured more than 500 UNAMSIL peacekeepers and hostilities between
the factions to the war reignighted. Only through the prompt action of
the UK military was relative calm restored to the Western Area pennisula
and security maintained in Government contolled areas of the country.
Nonetheless, while shaken, Lome has continued to serve as the general
framework for subsequent cease-fire agreements and negotiations with the
RUF, and was the basis for restarting the disarmament, demobilization and
reintegration (DDR) program in May 2001. The current rapid progress in
implementing the DDR program and moving forward with negotiations with the
RUF is cause for cautious optimism for the restoration of a full peace,
and return to a level of normalcy not known in Sierra Leone for more than
a decade. International support for the process continues to be
strong.The war brought additional burdens to an already weak sector. The
current status of the education sector in Sierra Leone is characterized by
a multitude of post-conflict challenges: frequent disruptions to many
children's schooling due to population displacement, a devastated school
infrastructure, displacement of teachers and resulting difficulty in
maintaining records and paying salaries on time (or at all), a serious
lack of basic furniture and teaching and learning materials, overcrowding
in many schools in safer areas, disorientation and psychological trauma
among a large segment of the population, especially children, a weakened
institutional capacity of MYES to manage the education system, a serious
lack of information and data to plan the provision of services, and poor
coordination of the various initiatives among numerous actors in the
sector. These issues are all inter-related, and together manifest as
problems of access, quality, equity, efficiency and management. Main
Sector Issues(a) Severely Damaged School InfrastructureThe war has taken
its toll on the physical infrastructure of the country, including schools
and health care facilities. Many of the institutions were being used to
house the displaced people. The school infrastructure has been severely
damaged. In June 1996, the MYES conducted a rapid assessment survey of
school facilities in war-affected areas. The survey was based on
information provided by NGOs operating in the areas and Education
Inspectorate Offices in districts where the Government had access. The
report indicates extensive damage including buildings burnt down, schools
looted including removal of sheet roofing, doors and windows, removal or
destruction of furniture and equipment, and loss of teaching materials.
Buildings not directly damaged by vandalism had deteriorated because of
lack of maintenance or abandonment due to frequent attacks or threats. Of
the 2468 school buildings included in the survey, 900 (36%) were reported
as having to be reconstructed and 1568 (64%) needing rehabilitation.
Since 1996, the war-affected area has expanded and it now includes
Freetown (1999). The extent of damage and deterioration of school
facilities is extensive and is estimated to exceed the resources available
to the Government of Sierra Leone and the international organizations
currently active in the country.(b) Displaced Population, and its Impact
-2 -



on Teachers and StudentsSince 1991, more than 20,000 lives have been lost
as a direct result of the conflict, and related insecurity has caused the
internal displacement of an estimated 1.2 million people, approximately 25
percent of the population. Thousands of Sierra Leoneans, including small
children, have had limbs cut off by machete. The UNHCR estimates
(Provisional Statistics on Refugees and Others of Concern to UNHCR for the
year 2000) that more than 500,000 people are either refugees,
asylum-seekers, internally displaced people or return internally displaced
people. While many have been repatriated or returned by themselves prior
to the coup, it is estimated that about the same number still remain in
Liberia and Guinea. According to UNICEF estimates, there are
approximately 5,000 children enrolled with Sierra Leone's various armed
groups, including the Kamajors. Another 10,000 children have been
registered as being separated from their families.The displacement of
population has led to the situation where trained teachers either have
left the country, or have migrated to and stayed in Freetown. As a
result, student teacher ratios vary from as few as 15 students for one
teacher in urban Western Area to as many as 111 in Port Loko I (data was
provided by the MYES in May 2001, however the data were not available from
all the schools and districts). Furthermore, information on the placement
of teachers, whether they are on payroll or not, whether they are actually
teaching or not, and whether they are getting paid (or who is getting
paid) are seriously lacking, and anecdotes suggest that many teachers have
not been paid for the last 6-8 months. Similarly, children have been
either out of school or crowded in schools in urban areas.(c) Inadequate
Educational Inputs at School LevelTeaching-learning materials, including
the textbooks of core subjects, are in serious shortage, or even if they
are available, not reaching the hands of teachers and students, especially
outside Freetown. Similarly basic furniture is also lacking in many of
the schools. As noted earlier, trained teachers have either left the
country or concentrated in urban areas, leaving most schools with
untrained teachers. Many rural teachers do not have formal teacher
training appropriate to their level. This is due to the limited capacity
of teacher training institutions to meet demand for teachers. (d) Lack of
Coordination among Various Actors in Proving Educational ServicesVarious
international donors, NGOs and CBOs have been present in the education
sector for a long time in Sierra Leone, and they have been particularly
active in responding to the demand for education in a post-conflict
context since 1999. For example, with the objective of delivering primary
education to the hard-to-reach out of school children, UNICEF and national
and international NGOs (People's Educational Association, Plan
International, Norwegian Refugee Committee, among others) have carried out
Non-Formal Primary Education Programs (NFPE) since 1992. These are
community-based schools aiming to increase participation of boys and girls
in basic education, involving parents and local communities in the
management and monitoring of the schools. The curriculum is similar to
the formal schools, although emphasis is made on numeracy and literacy, as
well as civic education, with short period of schooling (3 hours/day), and
longer school academic year. Similar initiatives have been taken to
assist the Ministry in reestablishing education services in war-affected
areas and for displaced students. Examples include the Rapid Response
Education Program (RREP) which facilitates the re-entry of war-affected
children back into formal primary schooling and the Complementary Rapid
Education for Primary Schools (CREPS). These projects include
rehabilitation and construction of schools and the introduction of an
- 3 -



accelerated primary school curriculum for the older age group of children
and emergency education for displaced and refugee groups.While all these
efforts are praiseworthy, there is lack of coordination among various
actors in the education sector. It is difficult to ascertain the global
picture of activities of donors, NGOs and CBOs, with regard to their
geographical coverage, target population, type of activities, educational
inputs, and their sustainability. Activities have proliferated without a
clear and coherent vision. Today NGOs are asked to register with the
Ministry of Development and Economic Planning, and approximately 200 NGOs
are registered. Of which, approximately 50 NGOs have education-related
activities. As a step to coordinate the activities of NGOs, the MYES
established an NGO coordination desk which gathers information on NGOs
activities in education, holds meetings with NGOs for information sharing
purposes, and increasingly, assigns NGOs geographical locations for their
operations.(e) Weak Institutional Capacity of MYES The current
organizational functions and structures of the MYES were configured before
the recent conflict erupted. Due to the upheaval generated by the
conflict, and due to the passage of time, this division of labor is no
longer feasible. In some cases functions and organizational structures
are inconsistent. Administrative procedures in the MYES heavily depend on
"manual" labor and hand-filled forms. The capacity of MYES is weak for
both day-to-day management of the system (payment of teachers, etc.) and
for developing longer-term visions and strategies of the education
sector. Also, the great majority of schools in Sierra Leone
(approximately 95%) are non-government schools. Although many of the
schools are Government/Donor assisted, the schools are managed by NGOs,
faith based organizations and community based organizations. To date,
there are no accountability mechanisms in place. The capacity of the
Government to monitor school performance, to support the schools and to
hold them accountable for quality, especially in rural areas, is limited,
not only because of the poor communications infrastructure, but also
because of the lack of personnel and resources in the District Education
Offices.(f) Lack of Reliable Data and Information System in the Education
SectorRelated to the weak capacity of the MYES, there is a serious lack of
basic information on schools, teachers, students, educational finance and
cost. Basic data such as number of schools, teachers and students exist,
but sporadically, and often the numbers do not coincide depending upon the
sources. Due to the conflict, data on some of the eastern parts of the
country are not available. Even when data are available, they are not
used for planning or monitoring purposes.(g) Low Access to Education and
Regional Disparities The above mentioned critical issues of the
post-conflict education sector contribute to the low net primary
enrollment ratio in Sierra Leone. According to a recently completed
Multiple Cluster Indicators Survey (MICS, 2000), only 42% of children of
age 6-15 were enrolled during the school year 1999/2000; a small gain from
37% reported in the 1985 census.   The MICS included most districts in
Sierra Leone, including inaccessible areas. (One of the most sensitive
issues faced in the development of the MICS sample plan was how to carry
out the survey in "inaccessible areas" that were controlled by rebel
forces. The sampling plan that was developed assumed that permission
would be secured from rebel leaders to conduct the survey in areas of
Sierra Leone that were currently inaccessible. Agreement was reached by
the government officials and the rebel leaders to conduct the survey
throughout the country. The data collection teams included members of
various rebel groups in Sierra Leone to ensure that enumerators gained
- 4 -



access to areas that were under the control of rebel groups).     Access to
education shows disparities exist within the country. For example, NER in
rural areas is 33% while that of urban areas is 62%.    NER estimated in
this survey by regions was: 75% in Western Area, 48% in Southern Province,
35% in Eastern Province and 28% in Northern Province.Completion of primary
school is an academic dead end for the majority of students because the
availability of junior secondary schools is very limited. The 12-15 year
old population is a rich resource for recruiting "child soldiers." The
number of children completing primary school is steadily increasing;
according to the West African Examination Council (WAEC), the number of
students from accessible areas sitting for the National Primary School
Examination (NPSE) has increased from 18,903 in 1999 to 21,212 in 2000,
and to 26,368 in 2001.   More than 90% of the sixth grade students pass the
NPSE according to the MYES data 1995-2000. However, currently there is no
investment program to respond to the increasing need for the last three
years of basic education (Grade 7-9) in junior secondary schools.There has
been a large increase in the number of children enrolled in primary
education classesl-3 since the Government implemented an incentive program
that provides free tuition, books and fees. In September 2001 the
incentive will be expanded to include grades 4-6. It is projected that
the number of students completing primary education will have a dramatic
increase from the 21,000 completing the school year 2000/01. Estimates
for this completion rate for the school years 20002-2006, will be
calculated during preparation. Secondary schools (not including vocational
schools and community education centers) were approximately 3.0% of all
schools (in terms of facilities) in Sierra Leone according to the MYES
rapid assessment survey of "war-affected areas" (1996). For example, in
the Bo District, the regional center for the Southern Province, there were
373 primary schools and 10 secondary schools. In Kailahun District, a
rural area in the Eastern Province, there were 506 primary schools and 14
secondary schools. In Port Loko II Education District, in the Northern
Province, there were 103 primary schools and 2 secondary schools. The
assessment did not include the more developed Western Area.Strengths and
Opportunities of the SectorWhile the education sector of Sierra Leone
faces with the multitude of issues discussed above, there are strengths
and opportunities in the sector. First, historically people in Sierra
Leone have always valued education, and it is said that Sierra Leone used
to have one of the most well developed education systems in West Africa.
The MICS 2000 report shows that once a family makes a decision and manages
to put their children in school, 809 of them would survive to Grade 6.
Similarly, the participation on the 6th grade completion exam is high,
approximately 90% of enrolled students.Second, the long tradition of
involvement of proprietors (missions- faith-based organizations-, private
individuals, community organizations, etc.) in providing education
services, managing the schools, and raising funds presents a unique
opportunity for re-establishing the education system in Sierra Leone.
This is a good foundation for developing the school system and creating a
solid partnership between the government and the stakeholders to build up
the sector.Government StrategyIn 1996 the Government of Sierra Leone and
MYES completed the development of a comprehensive and ambitious National
Education Plan (1997-2000) and a related Quick Action Programme (QUAP)
that included support from several international donors. The Coup d'etat
of May 1997 resulted in the disruption of development plans due to the
curtailment of international financial and material support. A revised
QUAP for the education sector was completed in January 1998. The main
- 5 -



objective of this program has been to restore and revitalize the education
system by rehabilitation and reconstruction of the school infrastructure,
provision of teaching and learning materials to schools in war-affected
areas, and payment of teachers salaries on time. More recently, the MYES,
in close collaboration with UN agencies (UNICEF, WFP, UNFPA and UNHCR) as
well as over twenty international and national NGOs, has been trying to
address the demands of education in the transitional
environment/post-conflict situation. The collaboration has included a
wide range of activities, the major ones being: school rehabilitation and
re-construction; provision of furniture and teaching-learning and
sports-recreation materials; teacher training; school feeding;
reorientation and accelerated learning programs for over-age children; a
non-formal program for children lacking access to formal primary schools;
and strengthening the MYES's managerial and supervisory capacity. To
increase access, the Government has abolished tuition fees (parents were
paying to schools) for primary Grades 1-3, and in effect from September
2001, primary Grades 4-6. Large quantities of textbooks (on a ratio of
two pupils per book), and to a much smaller extent, some consumables
(mainly exercise books, chalk, etc) have been distributed to schools in
accessible areas.The MYES recognizes the importance of stakeholders,
including NGOs, faith-based organizations and community based groups
(CBOs). The reconstruction, rehabilitation and reintegration efforts
initiated by the different international organizations and coordinated by
the NCRRR (National Commission for Reconstruction, Resettlement, and
Rehabilitation) have included the reconstruction of the school
infrastructure, with approximately 120 schools being rehabilitated at this
juncture. Other activities by international and national NGOs have been
initiated, and as discussed before, the MYES has started to coordinate the
different initiatives and has proposed regional distribution for
intervention of various actors. For example, Plan International has
focused on the Moyamba district where a total of 294 schools exist, of
which 180 are Government assisted. The other 114 schools are either
community-based or supported by religious organizations. Starting
September 2001, the GOSL will be providing financial assistance: student
fees to all children grades 1-6 and teacher salaries to all schools via
the faith-based organizations (Missions). This is an important step in
creating a partnership between government and civil society for the
delivery of education services.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the project are to assist the Government of Sierra Leone
to re-establish the education services in the post-conflict situation, and
prepare the grounds for building up the sector. Specifically the
objectives of the project are: (i) to provide basic education (grades 1-9)
for the majority of the children in school age in the country; (ii) to
assure operational quality level of schools; (iii) to develop a
partnership between the Ministry of Youth Education and Sports (MYES),
Civil Society and International Community to build up the school system,
and; (iv) to build up the Capacity of MYES to Manage the Sector.The
rehabilitation of the school system is proposed to be done in two phases
according to a strategy of progressive quality improvements in two fronts:
i) normalcy is re-established in the country -areas are declared safe- and
ii) the school system evolves. In the first phase all children will have
access to schools operating at a "basic operational level," taking into
account reaching all children with affordable solutions; and in the second
- 6 -



phase schools will operate at the "fundamental quality level." Basic
Operational level is defined as schools where a physical structure is
available and supplied with basic furniture, main textbooks and teaching
and learning materials, one teacher per 40 students. In the Fundamental
Quality Level, school buildings in areas where population is settled are
upgraded and or new schools are built and furnished, there is one trained
teacher per 40 students, core subject textbooks are available to every
child, progression from the emergency education program and rapid
education programs is made into the normal curriculum, District Education
Offices are in place, and school management committees are
operational.Emphasis will be placed on phase one- rehabilitation and
operationalization of schools and building the capacity of the MYES.
Depending on project implementation and evolution of the school system,
political and economic stability, emphasis will progressively move to
stage two. In the interest of equity, progress into stage two will only
occur when at least 80t of all children will have access to schooling. It
is envisioned that to move into phase two, a second project will be
prepared.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The value-added of Bank (IDA) support for this project far exceeds the
financial resources the project provides. Bank's experience in scaling up
provision of education services to meet the needs of underserved children
in a short period of time is relevant and lessons learned in India and
Bangladesh are taken into account. In addition Bank's involvement in
education sector projects in post-conflict situation in Africa and in East
Asia (Viet-Nam, Cambodia and East Timor) have been taken as opportunities
to improve performance of the sector as a whole. Lessons learned from
these on-going projects are considered in project design. More so, the
Bank's role in donor coordination and in supporting a participatory
approach in the disarmament, reconstruction and rehabilitation efforts in
Sierra Leone positions this project to continue this participatory and
multi-donor coordination to build up the education sector.
4. Description
Component I Emergency response to rehabilitate the school system: US$ 16
M (80 W of Total Project Cost)   The objective of this component is to
increase access to basic education by rehabilitating the school system.
In Sierra Leone basic education includes primary (classes 1-6) and junior
secondary schools (JSS levels 7-9). To increase access it is necessary to
rehabilitate and reconstruct damaged facilities both primary and
secondary; construct additional JSS schools; ensure availability of
teachers; and provide textbooks. This component will meet its objectives
through four activities: (i) rehabilitation and reconstruction of damaged
schools- primary and junior secondary; (ii) supporting the reintegration
of displaced teachers; (iii) provision of textbooks and teaching and
learning materials to all enrolled students, and; (iv) expansion of
Emergency Education, Rapid Education Programs and community schools to
rural and underserved areas. Each of these four activities as A grant
school program will be established to support initiatives to bring schools
into a basic operational level. Basic Operational level is defined as
schools where a physical structure is available and supplied with basic
furniture, main textbooks and teaching and learning materials for students
and one teacher per 40 students. The following are eligible activities to
be supported under this fund:o Rehabilitation/reconstruction of primary
-7 -



and junior secondary schoolso School furnishingo Set of 4 core subject
textbooks: english, math, science and social studieso Teaching and
learning materials (school in a box)o Incentive package for reintegration
of teacherso Establishment of a School Management Committeen
Rehabilitation and Construction of Primary and Junior Secondary Schools:
In addition to the demand-driven mechanism, the MYES through the fund will
rehabilitate/reconstruct and furnished primary and junior secondary
schools. The number of schools that can be rehabilitated will be
determined by an engineering assessment of facilities during preparation.
This assessment would include representative specification of works to be
completed and cost estimates. The Ministry will prepare a plan for
rehabilitation and reconstruction that allocates the resources on an
equitable basis among the districts, and give priority to underserved
areas. This plan will continue to be supported under project
implementation and will evolve as the security situation evolves and as
the demand-driven school rehabilitation progresses.fn Establishment of
Junior Secondary Schools:    In addition to the demand-driven mechanism for
rehabilitation of junior secondary schools, the project will assist the
MYES with the extension of education opportunities for youth beyond the
primary level. The international donors and NGOs active in the Sierra
Leone education sector, are restricted to targeting primary education.
Assisting the Ministry to establish junior secondary schools is a gap that
could be filled by World Bank and African Development Bank's assistance.
The proposed project will assist the Government to establish a number to
be determined of junior secondary schools according to an equitable plan
based upon an assessment of need and shortfall of available JSS facilities
that would be conducted during preparation and the estimated cost of the
JSS facilities. A junior secondary school facility as defined by the
proposed project would consist of approximately 6 classrooms,
administrative area, storeroom, basic science laboratory, latrines and
water source; as well as furniture, equipment and instructional
materials. Availability of adequate number of teachers would be a
requirement for establishing a new school.fn Provision of Teaching and
Learning Materials: The objective of this subcomponent is to assist the
MYES in providing fundamental teaching and learning materials in
sufficient quantity to all basic education schools and programs, including
emergency education initiatives and community schools. An assessment of
the current situation concerning supply of materials to schools and a
projection of the need for the school years 2002-03, 2003-04 and 2004-05
will be made during preparation of the project. The plan will consider
projected commitments from international donors.The project will provide
textbooks for core courses in all primary level programs and junior
secondary schools. (Coverage to be determined during
preparation).Supplementary materials may also include tools for teachers,
consumable supplies for children and equipment for post-trauma
therapeutic activities such as sports, music, art and drama. The
suggested materials included in "School in a box" are:fn A teachers bag
that contains essential materials needed by a teacher, especially in rural
schools.n Learning kits for children that may include items such as lined
exercise books and/or slates, pencils, etc.fn Recreational kit including
culturally relevant basic activity equipment and musical instruments.n
Reintegration of Teachers: The objective of this subcomponent is to
assist the Ministry of Youth Education and Sports (MYES) with a program
for reintegration of displaced teachers to rural and war-affected areas.
A program to assist teachers with resettlement is a necessary part of
- 8 -



meeting the demand for teachers outside of densed population centers
(Freetown). Resettlement costs may include transportation of a teacher
and family to the village where school is located as well as some
resources for setting up household on arrival. It is also important that
the teachers receive regular pay. The MYES is preparing a plan for
providing some assistance (incentive) for teachers willing to resettle in
remote rural areas. The number of teachers to be relocated and the amount
of incentive needed will be determined during project preparation.fn
Expansion of Emergency Education Rapid Education and Community Schools.
Taking into account that the community-based programs have proven to be an
effective way to increase access in many Bank assisted projects in
different parts of the world, and that in Sierra Leone there are a number
of these initiatives currently supported by the government as "non-formal
education programs," the proposed project will seek to expand these
initiatives with participation of education stakeholders in the country.
In particular these will include the RREP, CREPS and NFPE. The percentage
of children to be enrolled in these type of alternative programs will be
estimated during preparation. n Introduce Peace Education Into The
Curriculum. Communities, especially children, in post conflict situations
experience trauma and stress that has a negative effect on their
concentration and ability to learn. The proposed project would support
the development of supplementary curriculum materials and activities for
use by teachers in the classroom. The peace education curriculum would be
based upon initial development work of specialists in the education
services unit, assisted by technical assistance currently based in Sierra
Leone. The curriculum will be developed during the project preparation
period with technical assistance provided by PHRD funds. Production of
materials and teacher training will be project activities.Component II -
Enhance Institutional Capacity of The MYES: US$ 4M (20% of Total Project
Cost) The main objective of this component is to strengthen the MYES
capacity to manage the sector and towards this end to set up and implement
a Management Development Program for the MYES. Although the program will
benefit all units in the Ministry, particular attention will be paid to
the units that deal with the functions of Planning, Aid Coordination,
Financial Management, Personnel Management and Inspection and Monitoring &
Evaluation. The program will include a variety of training activities and
may include also the provision of technical assistance combined with
mentoring and the development of some systems. To the extent that the
decentralization effort proceeds beyond a planning stage during this
project, district education offices will be included in the Management
Development Program.fn Capacity Building: Vision/Mission of MYES. The
objective of this activity is to help improve leadership and direction in
the education sector in Sierra Leone. The activity will consist of a
series of visioning exercises conducted initially at top leadership levels
within the Ministry and then repeated at lower levels. Through these
exercises, the MYES will develop a comprehensive and detailed vision,
focusing on its clients, the services it would like to deliver to them,
the specifications of these services and the standards for their
delivery. The project will also support the dissemination of the
resulting vision throughout the education system and among all
stakeholders.fn Operational Guidelines. A successful implementation of
this project will require clear operational guidelines. The changes
anticipated in MYES's vision and in its organization structure too will
have to be supported by such operational guidelines. One way to
communicate operational guidelines is either to produce a document
- 9-



containing terms of reference for each organizational unit involved or to
produce job descriptions for key jobs in these units. The objective of
this component is to produce Unit TORs, at least for all units involved in
the implementation of this project, and job descriptions for all key jobs
in these units. n Organization Structure and Decentralization. The
objective of this activity is to support the work involved in reviewing
the division of labor, including the question of decentralization, and to
help introduce changes to the organization structure, if necessary. This
will include not only the analytic activity required to decide what may be
an optimal structure, but also the provision of material resources
necessary to change the roles of existing units or set up new units within
the MYES. It will include also the provision of TA staff to help shape the
content and form of jobs introduced, or modified, as a result of the
changed division of labor. In addition, this sub-component will include a
thorough assessment of the capacity required by the district education
offices, and a review of the conditions necessary to effectively
operationalise the new School Management Committees. If decentralization
proceeds, then the sub-component will include also some capacity building
measures for the district offices. n Establishment of School Management
Committees   Quality assurance in Sierra Leone must be supported locally
and at the school level. The great majority of schools (approximately
95%) are owned by the government.   Although the schools are 95% Government
assisted, all schools are managed by NGOs, faith based organizations and
community based organizations. The capacity of the Government to monitor
school performance, especially in rural areas, is limited by resources and
by communications infrastructure. School management committees would be
established and given authority for management of the school to ensure
efficient operation and to ensure that operational levels of quality are
assured. The school committee is also the body that ensures that
Community (parents), Government (local and MYES), stakeholder
institutions, and school management work together for effective schooling.
The school management committee should have the authority to hire or at
least approve the hiring of teachers, including head teacher. The school
committee would also follow-up with families of children who are not
attending or drop out. Requests for funds for school improvement and
oversight of these funds when received would be another responsibility of
the committee, as well as ensuring that learning materials and supplies
get to the school from major distribution points. MYES and GOSL would be
responsible for ensuring that money for teacher salaries is paid on time
and that resources are available at the nearest appropriate distribution
point. n Development of Basic Education Data Base The objective of this
activity is to create basic data-base. The lack of reliable, up-to-date
information, that covers the whole country and that can be found in one
place, is one of the most important factors weakening the capacity of the
MYES. This information is needed urgently for planning purposes, since
older information that may have existed earlier has changed because of the
destruction of property and the displacement of a large proportion of the
population. The inability of the Ministry to gather such data compelled
some aid agencies and NGOs to start gathering information independently of
the MYES, without coordination and standardization. The information that
they collected is available today, but is insufficient. There is a need
for a basic education data base at the MYES, that will integrate all key
areas, such as physical facilities and teachers, and be accessible to all
decision-makers at the MYES. n In-Service Teacher Training: In-service
teacher training is essential for upgrading the skills of untrained
- 10 -



teachers in schools and facilitators of non-formal education programs and
for helping keep trained teachers current on new technologies and
knowledge; as well as new curriculum items such as the proposed peace
education curriculum. A plan for in-service teacher and facilitator
training will be developed under preparation and with technical assistance
provided by the PHRD grant. The MYES in collaboration with the Teachers'
College has already developed a modular distance education program that
will be simplified. On a pilot basis, the in-service training plan would
also include consideration of training programs for inspectors. Currently
there are inspectorate personnel located in all districts. In about one
half of the districts there are facilities that serve as inspectoral
offices. It would be necessary to expand existing offices if they are to
serve as resource centers for teachers and as a site for in-service
training. An appropriate facility would have a room to conduct training
and sufficient resources to support teachers in preparation of lesson
plans and supplementary learning materials and in-service training. The
project will fund one teacher resource center in a district to be
determined during preparation.
Emergency response to rehabilitate the school system
Capacity Building of MYES
5. Financing
Total                           ( US$m)
BORROWER                         0
IDA                              20
Total Project Cost
6. Implementation
The Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project (REBEP) will be implemented
over a four year period. The Ministry of Youth, Education and Sports
(MYES) will be responsible for the overall project implementation under
the guidance and supervision of the newly created National Education
Committee (NEC). This committee will be responsible for defining broad
priorities for the education sector, approve the key policy decisions,
review and approve annual plan of action to implement the policies
including the performance monitoring of the REBEP as well as the overall
education sector. The NEC would be the advocacy and policy coordinating
body, reviewing and approving the annual action plans, coordinating
education sector initiatives supported by various agencies, overseeing
operational and implementation procedures, monitoring and evaluating the
REBEP and its outcomes. The NEC would be a partnership of the public and
non-public sectors (in almost equal numbers) including the Ministry of
Education, representatives of key international donors, stakeholders,
Teachers Union, NGOs, religious groups and the private sector. The
Minister of Education would be the permanent chair of the NEC, with the
vice-chairpersonship rotating every two years. The Committee will
supervise project implementation and monitor its performance. The
committee will not be an implementing agency, but will be supported by the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which will be responsible for the
coordination and management of the project implementation. NEC would also
review and approve national level development proposals submitted by the
NGOs and the Civil Society to the School Rehabilitation Fund, within the
framework of the national education policy and REBEP objectives. The
Project Coordination Unit will technically support the NEC in reviewing
the proposals and making recommendations. Approved proposals will receive
- 11 -



grants under the School Rehabilitation Fund. Details of this arrangement
will be worked out during project preparation and appraisal.The Project
Coordination Unit will have a core professional staff, conceivably
comprised of a Director and Deputy Director, with specialists in
procurement management, financial management, capacity building,
community-based initiatives, monitoring and evaluation. During the project
preparation, consideration will be given to assess the possibility of
contracting out project financial management and the procurement
management to the private sector. The Financial Management Agent (FMA)
would manage project finances under the supervision of the NEC/PCU, help
train staff, and serve as an internal project auditor. The Procurement
Management Agent (PMA) would manage all matters related to procurement of
civil-works, goods and services under the supervision of the NEC/PCU.
Detailed operational manuals for (a) the financial and procurement
management and (b) School Rehabilitation Fund; would be developed before
project effectiveness. These manuals will provide detailed, specific and
clear guidelines to their respective target groups. REBEP will develop
capacity in the MOYES at sub-national level for community-based proposal
appraisal and approval and will also sensitize major stakeholders on the
component.Various agencies of the MYES responsible to undertake major
operations of the REBEP will be assisted under the project to develop
capacity in project planning and implementation management. Necessary
allocations would be made to provide essential support to the responsible
units. The current stakeholder coordination function will be strengthened
with resources and improved processes will be developed to enhance
communication and information sharing. Monitoring and Evaluation functions
will largely depend on a strengthened national Education Management
Information System (EMIS) in the MYES. The project will assist in
developing an efficient and practical EMIS considering the post-conflict
situation of the country. A reliable baseline survey will be conducted
during the project preparation (under the PHRD grant) a project baseline
would be established.Details of institutional and implementation
arrangements will need to be worked out during the preparation mission.
See also component 2 - Capacity Building.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of the Rehabilitation of Basic education will depend on the
extent to which the Government succeeds in implementing, within a sound
macro-economic framework, its recovery and reform program. It will also
depend on the progress in restoring political stability and the access to
services throughout Sierra Leone. At this point in time there are still
District headquarters which are only under a limited Government control
and which are without electricity, telephone and other communication
means, transport and banking facilities. In other words, until
macroeconomic development will compelling take off, in Sierra Leone, more
than in many other developing countries, the success in the education
sector will continue to depend upon donor inputs. The rehabilitation of
the school system is a priority for the Government of Sierra Leone, and
key for achieving its developmental goals. Donors are providing budgetary
support to pay recurrent expenditures: teachers salaries, and school fees,
and it is expected that 259 of HIPIC resources will be allocated to the
education sector. This contingency will help the Government to support the
education sector while its recovery and reform program are fully in
place.Sustainability of education sector reforms such as increased
decentralization and movement towards a school-based management system
- 12 -



with increased accountability will depend on how normalcy is
re-established at district and chiefdom levels. The project will emphasize
this aspect in the districts where the strategy for increased governance
under DFID support is in place.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Education Sector Projects in Sierra Leone have characterized for their
slow implementation. A critical issue reported in the first two education
projects was the existence of an independent Project Implementation Unit
outside of the Department of Education's control. This resulted in lack of
ownership, and made difficult the adoption of key policies. Lessons
learned suggest that to increase project ownership, create sustainability
and facilitate implementation, and improve monitoring and evaluation, that
project management be undertaken by the direct beneficiary. The current
project will have the MYES as the implementation agency, and a Project
Coordination Unit has been established in the Ministry.To overcome
procurement and financial managements encountered in the past, project
design is giving priority to capacity building for the MYES, starting from
capacity for Project Management and Implementation. The creation of an
overseeing body, the National Education Council, with equal representation
from the private and public sector is expected to improve governance, as
well as creating    a direct link between  project actions and education
policies.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are no significant environmental issues
related to this project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Adriana Jaramillo
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 1084
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October 19, 2001
- 13 -



