Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H0200 SL 
 
Development Grant
 
Agreement 
 
(Rehabilitation of Basic Education Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 28, 2003 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H0200 SL 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 28 , 2003, between the REPUBLIC OF SIERRA 
LEONE (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B) 
the Association has received a letter, dated July 9, 2002 from the  
Borrower, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
rehabilitate the Recipient’s education sector (hereinafter called the Program);  
(C) 
the Association was authorized, under Resolution No. 549 adopted on 
September 29, 2002, by the Board of Governors of the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the “Bank”), to use the funds transferred to the 
Association out of the Bank’s fiscal year 2002 net income to provide financing in the 
form of grants and the development grant set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the 
Grant) is consistent with such policies; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as 
amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of 
this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement 
(i) Article 
I; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(ii) Article 
II; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.05 and 4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) Article 
VIII; 
(viii) Article 
IX; 
(ix) 
Article X;  
(x) 
Article XI; and  
(xi) 
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03, 12.04 and 12.05. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(ii) 
the term “Development Credit Agreement”, wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement; 
(iii) 
the term “Credit” and “credit”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant;  
(iv) 
the term “Credit Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account; and 
(v) 
Section 12.05 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“This Development Grant Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder 
shall terminate on June 30, 2015.” 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Eligible School” means a primary or junior secondary school in one of 
the Target Districts (as hereinafter defined) which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the PIM (as hereinafter defined) and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and for the benefit 
of which a Subproject (as hereinafter defined), is carried out or proposed to be carried 
out; 
(b) 
“Eligible Service Provider” means a district education office; an 
association, a non-governmental organization, a community-based organization, a civil 
society group or a religious body, which has met the eligibility criteria and requirements  
set forth in PIM (as hereinafter defined) and in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and which, 
as a result, is entitled to receive a School Grant for carrying out a Subproject under Part A 
of the Project; 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Financial/Procurement Management Agent” and “FPMA” mean the 
private financial institution, accounting or audit firm to be appointed by the Recipient 
pursuant to Paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement to manage the proceeds of the 
Grant, including procurement and financial accounting; 
(e) 
“Full School Grant” means a School Grant (as hereinafter defined) which 
includes all the items specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (i) of Paragraph 15 of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Leone” means the currency of the Recipient; 
(g) 
“MEST” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education, Science and 
Technology; 
(h) 
“Partial School Grant” means a School Grant (as hereinafter defined) 
which includes the items indicated in subparagraphs (c) to (i) of Paragraph 15 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i) 
“Project Implementation Manual” and “PIM” mean the manual for the 
implementation of the Project referred to in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
Page  5
-
4
-
which includes the Project Operations Manual, the Partnership Manual and the Project 
Implementation Plan; 
(j) 
“Project Steering Committee” and “PSC” mean the committee to be 
established by the Recipient in MEST for the purposes of general oversight of the Project 
and which shall be composed of 40% membership from civil society; 
(k) 
“Project Coordination Unit” and “PCU” mean the unit to be established 
by the Recipient in MEST under the supervision of the PSC for the purposes of 
coordinating and supervising the day-to-day activities under the Project; 
(l) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the letter agreements signed on 
behalf of the Association on April 14, 1993, November 29, 1993, and August 14, 1996, 
respectively and on behalf of the Recipient on April 20, 1993, December 2, 1993 and 
August 21, 1996, respectively; 
(m) 
“School Grant” means a grant made or to be made through an Eligible 
Service Provider for the financing of a Subproject under Part A of the Project for the 
benefit of an Eligible School; 
(n) 
“School Grant Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into 
between the PCU and an Eligible Service Provider for the purpose of carrying out a 
Subproject for the benefit of one or more Eligible Schools; 
(o) 
“School Management Committee” means, in respect of each Eligible 
School,  the committee established in accordance with the Recipient’s Education Act to 
be responsible for the management of day-to-day operations of the school and for the 
supervision and monitoring of the basic operational level standards at the school; 
(p) 
“Service Provider” means a district education office, an association, a 
non-governmental organization, a community based organization, a civil society group or 
a
religious body, which has applied or intends to apply to receive a School Grant for the 
purpose of carrying out a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) under Part A of the Project; 
(q) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(r) 
“Subproject” means an activity to be carried out by an Eligible Service 
Provider for the benefit of an Eligible School under Part A of the Project and which, 
having met the eligibility criteria set forth in the PIM and the provisions of Schedule 4 to 
Page  6
-
5
-
this Agreement, is eligible for financing, on a grant basis, out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; and 
(s) 
“Target Districts” means the districts of Rural Freetown, Kenema, 
Tonkolili, Pujehun, Kambia, Koinadugu and Kailahun. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to fifteen million, one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 15,100,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, amounts to be paid) by the Recipient on account of withdrawals made to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for any Subproject in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested. 
(b) 
The recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a separate special 
deposit account for the purposes of the Project in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
(c) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of such 
later date. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.04. (a) The recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on March 1 
and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.06. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01: (a) The recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MEST with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and educational practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, for the purposes of facilitating its counterpart 
contribution to the Project: 
 
(a) 
open and maintain in a commercial bank, until the completion of the 
Project, an account (the Project Account) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; 
 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account an amount (hereinafter referred to as the 
Initial Amount) in Leones equivalent to $20,000, and thereafter, on or before March 31 in 
each year, deposit into the Project Account such amounts as are estimated to be required 
for that calendar year or such other amount as shall be agreed between the Recipient and 
the Association; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively for expenditures under the 
Project not otherwise financed from the proceeds of the Grant. 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
Page  9
-
8
-
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) 
The recipient shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without
 limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set forth in Schedule 4 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than forty-
five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall 
cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the 
end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter.  
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
Page  11
-
10 -
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are  specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the Recipient has appointed an independent auditor for the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(b) 
the Recipient has deposited the Initial Amount into the Project Account. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as the 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
The Minister of Finance 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Ministerial Building 
 
George Street 
 
Freetown, Sierra Leone 
 
Facsimile Number:  232 22 228 472 
 
Page  12
-
11 -
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile 
 
 
INDEVAS 
 
    248423 (MCI) or 
    (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
      64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE 
 
By 
/s/ Hassan Conteh 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Callisto E. Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Africa 
 
Page  13
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of  
Expenditure  
to be Financed
(1)  
Goods 
 
350,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 90% 
of local expenditures 
 
(2)  
Consultants’ Services 
and Training 
 
850,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 90% 
of local expenditures 
 
(3)   
School Grants under 
Part A of the Project 
 
13,000,000 
100% of amounts 
disbursed 
(4)  
Operating Costs 
 
250,000 90% 
(5) Project 
Preparation 
Advance 
350,000 
Amount due pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement 
 
(6) Unallocated 
300,000 
 
 
_________
TOTAL 15,100,000 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
Page  14
-
13 -
(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs 
incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, including 
office supplies, office space rental and utilities, Special Account banking charges, audits, 
communications, maintenance and insurance of vehicles, fuel, travel per diems and 
allowances for staff, travel and accommodations, and contractual staff recruited to work 
with MEST, but excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
expenditures under Category 3 for any School Grant, unless such School 
Grant has been approved in accordance with the eligibility criteria, procedures and terms 
and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and further described in the 
PIM. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (i) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (ii) services under contracts costing less than: (A) $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms, and (B) $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; school grants under Part A of the Project; and (iv) operating costs. 
Page  15
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to carry out the Program 
which aims at re-establishing education services in the post-conflict context and 
preparing the ground for strengthening the education sector, by: (i) assisting eligible 
schools to achieve basic operational level; and (ii) improving the capacity of MEST to 
plan and manage the delivery of education services. 
Part A
:
Rehabilitation of the School System
Provision of School Grants through Eligible Service Providers for the purpose of 
upgrading Eligible Schools to meet the basic operation level standards set forth in the 
PIM, through, among other things: 
1. 
Reconstruction, rehabilitation and repair of school premises. 
2. 
Acquisition of furniture, textbooks and teacher guides, including peace education 
toolkits. 
3. 
Training of teachers and of members of school management committees. 
Part B
:
Institutional and Management Capacity Building of MEST
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of MEST to plan, manage and monitor the provision 
of its education services and to coordinate and monitor the provision of education 
services by private sector providers. 
2. 
Provision of training to quality assurance officers, School Management 
Committees and teachers, including in-service teacher training. 
3. 
Establishment of a computerized education management information system, 
including acquisition of equipment and training of key personnel on statistics and on use 
of information for planning, management of personnel and monitoring use of resources. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  16
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  17
-
16 -
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, which cannot 
be grouped together and which are readily available off-the-shelf, may be procured under 
contracts awarded either on the basis of national shopping procedures or international 
shopping procedures, depending on local availability, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Contracts for goods not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 each may be 
procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4. Community 
Participation
Goods and works required for Part A of the Project may be procured following 
the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $100,000 or more, and the first two contracts for goods awarded on the basis of 
National Competitive Bidding, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  18
-
17 -
(b) 
The first three Subproject agreements, and thereafter all Subproject 
agreements estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, shall be subject to prior 
review before they are signed. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for all assignments estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
Page  19
-
18 -
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for financial and procurement auditing may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Consultants’ services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Consultants’ services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 
5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and the first two contract estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 but more than $50,000, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  20
-
19 -
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  21
-
20 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Project Implementation Manual
1. 
The recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Manual (PIM) for the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no provisions of the PIM 
shall be amended or waived, if in the opinion of the Association, such amendment or 
waiver will materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project or the 
achievement of the objectives thereof. 
Institutional Arrangements
2. 
For the purpose of general oversight of the Project, the Recipient shall establish, 
and maintain for the duration of the Project, the Project Steering Committee (PSC) with 
membership comprising of 40% from civil society and 60% from the public agencies of  
the Recipient.  The PSC shall, among other things:
 
(i) have oversight on the Recipient
’s 
rehabilitation of its education sector; (ii) promote coordination of education sector 
initiatives; (iii) define broad priorities of action for the Project; (iv) review the progress 
towards achieving the Project’s objectives; (v) review and approve subprojects under 
Part A of the Project; and (vi) monitor and evaluate Project outcomes. 
3. 
For the purposes of coordinating and supervising the day-to-day activities under 
the Project, the Recipient shall establish and maintain for the duration of the Project, a 
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) under the supervision of the PSC.  The PCU shall be 
adequately staffed with persons having qualifications, experience and terms of reference 
acceptable to the Association, including: (i) a Director, (ii) a Technical Coordinator, (iii) a 
Partnership Coordinator, and (iv) appropriate support staff in adequate numbers. 
4. 
The PCU shall be responsible for: (i) performing technical reviews of proposed 
subprojects and making recommendations to the PSC for approval or not of Subprojects; 
and (ii)  regular monitoring and evaluation of the Project. 
5. 
For the purposes of undertaking procurement under the Project, the Recipient shall 
establish and maintain for the duration of the Project, a Procurement Unit under the 
supervision of the PCU.  The Procurement Unit shall be adequately staffed with persons 
having qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Association. 
Page  22
-
21 -
6. 
The Procurement Unit shall be responsible for: (i) procurement planning and 
processing; (ii) supervising performance of contracts with suppliers; (iii) stores 
management; (iv) providing a secretariat for the MEST Tender Committee; (v) assessing 
the procurement capacity of each Service Provider prior to signature of a Subproject 
Agreement and making recommendations for any required improvements; (vi) providing 
procurement assistance, including capacity building and training of Eligible Service 
Providers; and (vii) supervising and ensuring compliance with the Association’s Guidelines 
of procurement carried out by Eligible Service Providers using MEST funds. 
7. 
The recipient shall recruit a Financial/Procurement Management Agent with 
experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association to assist in the implementation 
of the Project through carrying out: (i) the financial management of Project activities, 
including the accounting and disbursement requirements thereof; and (ii) reporting 
requirements and monitoring activities. 
Implementation Arrangements
8. 
The recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIM. 
9. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, the Recipient shall apply the procedures and 
guidelines set forth in the PIM including, but not limited to the following. 
Eligibility Criteria
10. 
The PCU will carry out an institutional capacity assessment of Service Providers as 
set forth in the PIM.   
11. 
In order to be eligible to carry out a subproject under Part A of the Project, Service 
Providers must demonstrate that: 
(a) 
key personnel are in place; 
(b) 
they have the capacity to procure works, goods and services according to 
procedures established under the Project;  
(c) 
they have adequate financial management and reporting capacity; and 
(d) 
they have adequate capacity to monitor and report on project activities. 
Page  23
-
22 -
12. 
Service providers who do not demonstrate the capacity to procure and manage 
large civil works contracts but which meet all the other eligibility criteria may be approved 
on the basis that they work with an approved works management agent in implementation.   
13. 
Priority will be given to service providers who submit comprehensive proposals 
gathering a number of schools not smaller than ten. 
14. 
Small community-based organizations and non governmental organizations will be 
permitted to partner with larger service providers to submit proposals. 
15. 
The following types of expenditures shall be eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Grant under Part A of the Project: 
(a) 
construction, renovation, or repair of school facilities; 
(b) classroom 
furniture; 
(c) textbooks; 
(d) 
teaching and learning materials; 
(e) 
teacher and headmaster training; 
(f) 
school-based peace building initiatives; 
(g) 
management support and overhead of the Eligible Service Providers, not to 
exceed 10% of the total amount of the School Grant; 
(h) teacher 
resettlement/reintegration; 
(i) 
training for school management committees or parent teacher associations; 
(j) 
non-formal or alternative education programs for over-age children; and 
(k) 
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Life Skills. 
 
Page  24
-
23 -
Procedures for Subprojects
16. 
Applications for Subprojects shall be submitted by Service Providers to a 
Technical Committee of the PCU for initial review and comment and then passed on to 
the PSC for decision. 
17. 
The PSC will meet on at least a quarterly basis to review proposals.  Proposal 
review will ensure: (i) compliance with basic eligibility criteria (outlined above); (ii) that 
the value of the proposal does not exceed an agreed allocation for each district; (iii) that 
estimated unit costs for eligible expenditures are reasonable and in accordance with 
norms agreed with the Association; (iv) that the implementation plan is realistic and 
achievable within two years; and (v) that there is no duplicate support for schools. 
Terms and conditions of School Grant Agreements
18. 
In financing a Subproject, the PCU shall enter into a School Grant Agreement with 
the Eligible Service Provider.  The said agreement shall follow the model contract provided 
in the PIM and shall set forth the respective obligations of the parties, under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association, which shall include the following: 
(a) 
that the financing of the Subproject shall be on a non-reimbursable grant 
basis and that the PCU shall take all measures and actions necessary to permit the Eligible 
Service Provider to carry out the Subproject and ensure the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, and, subject to the fulfillment by the Eligible Service Provider of its obligations 
under the agreement, shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of the Subproject; 
(b) 
that the Eligible Service Provider shall carry out the Subproject with due 
diligence and efficiency, and in accordance with the PIM and with sound technical, 
financial, education and practices and standards and shall maintain adequate financial and 
other records; 
(c) 
that the goods, works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
School Grant Agreement shall be procured in conformity with the provisions set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement and that such goods, works and services shall be used 
exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject; 
(d) 
that: (i) technical and financial reports on the implementation of the 
Subproject shall be furnished quarterly to the PCU for review; and (ii) during the last 
review for each calendar year, Subproject plan and budget for the following calendar year 
shall be furnished to the PCU for review and approval; 
Page  25
-
24 -
(e) 
that the Eligible Service Provider shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other satisfactory provision for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practices; 
(f) 
that the PCU and the PSC shall have the right to inspect by themselves or 
jointly with the Association the services included in the Subproject and any record or 
relevant document; 
(g) 
that the Eligible Service Provider shall, at the request of the PCU or the 
PSC, exchange views with the PCU and/or the PSC with regard to the progress of the 
Subproject and the achievement of the objectives thereof, and the performance by the 
Eligible Service Provider of its obligations under the relevant Agreement; 
(h) 
that the Eligible Service Provider shall promptly inform the PCU of any 
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the implementation of the 
Subproject and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(i) 
that the PCU shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Eligible Service Provider to use the proceeds of the Grant upon failure by the Eligible 
Service Provider to perform any of its obligations under the School Grant Agreement; and 
(j) 
that the PCU and the PSC shall take into account the reports of the School 
Management Committees in their analysis of the performance of the Eligible Service 
Providers. 
Dated covenants
19. 
The recipient shall, not later than ninety (90) days after the end of each calendar 
year, furnish to the Association an annual progress report and action plan for the Project. 
Reviews
20. The 
recipient 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
Page  26
-
25 -
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 1 in each year during Project 
implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and  
(c) 
review with the Association, by April 30 of each year, or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  27
-
26 -
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
For the purposes of this Agreement, the Recipient agrees that Project 
performance will be measured by the indicators below unless otherwise agreed by the 
Recipient and the Association. 
Part A of the Project 
1. 
50% of primary and junior secondary schools in the Target Districts have reached 
the basic operational level by December 31, 2007. 
2. 
The completion rate in primary schools in the Target Districts is 70% as of 
December 31, 2007. 
3. 
There is a 20% increase in girls enrollment in primary schools in the Target 
Districts located in the Northern and the Eastern Regions by December 31, 2007 as 
compared to December 31, 2001. 
4. 
There is a 20% increase in enrollment in junior secondary schools in the Target 
Districts by December 31, 2007 as compared to December 31, 2001. 
5. 
There is a 20% increase in the pass rate of students who take the Basic Education 
Certificate Examination in the Target Districts in the year 2007 as compared to the year 
2001. 
6. 
50 primary schools have received Full School Grants every year during Project 
implementation. 
7. 
325 primary schools have received Partial School Grants every year during 
Project implementation. 
8. 
10 junior secondary schools have received Full School Grants every year during 
Project implementation. 
9. 
45 junior secondary schools have received Partial School Grants every year 
during Project implementation. 
 
Page  28
-
27 -
Part B of the Project
1. 
Beginning on the Effective Date, and thereafter throughout the duration of the 
Project, the PCU is able to conduct: 
(a) 
procurement and financial management of the Project, 
(b) 
technical reviews of Subprojects, and 
(c) 
monitoring and supervision of Project activities. 
2. 
The capacity of the MEST to conduct planning, monitoring and evaluation of 
provision of school services, and stakeholder coordination is enhanced to the point that: 
(a) 
annual school surveys are conducted in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association; 
(b) 
policy decisions are made based on information collected in the school 
surveys; 
(c) 
transparency in the decision-making process pertaining to the allocation 
of Project funds is ensured/kept at all times; and 
(d) 
Project implementation is completed according to schedule. 
3. 
The computerized Education Management Information System (EMIS) to be 
established under Part B.3 of the Project is fully functional and integrated with the 
planning and decision-making process by June 30, 2004. 
4. 
As of December 31, 2007, the Recipient has undertaken two national school 
surveys during the period of Project implementation; one on or before the review to be 
carried out in the Year 2005 in accordance with paragraph 20 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
5. 
The recipient had updated its national school survey each year during Project 
implementation. 
6. 
400 School Management Committees have been established and are fully 
functioning by December 31, 2007. 
Page  29
-
28 -
SCHEDULE 6 
Special Accounts 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 (a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 1 through 4 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of SDR 2,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
Page  30
-
29 -
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Page  31
-
30 -
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
