Report No. PID10408
Project Name                     Congo-Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation (@)
Credit (Post-Conflict ERC)
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Economic Management
Project ID                       CGPE73316
Borrower                         Republic of Congo
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Budget;
Date of this PID                 July 16, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         June 1, 2001
Projected Board date             July 31, 2001
Credit Financing         US$ 35.0 million  IDA. The IMF approved an Emergency
Post-Conflict Assistance in November 2000. The Bank is closely coordinating
its support with other key donors to finance the Government Interim Post-
Conflict Program.
Background and Description:
The proposed Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit (Post-Conflict
ERC) is an integral part of the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS)
approved by the Board in January 16, 2001, to assist the Republic of Congo in
the transition from war to sustainable peace. It is one of the first two
operations of the TSS that would support: (i) key structural reforms; (ii)
improved governance and better transparency in the management of the
country's natural wealth and public funds. Proceeds of the proposed Credit
would provide critical funds necessary to advance structural reforms and
governance/transparency measures of the Government' s 2000-2002 Interim Post-
Conflict Program. Policy reforms envisaged in the proposed operation would
revitalize the economy and help put the country on a higher and sustained
growth path.
Credit Objectives        The main objective of the proposed Post-Conflict
Economic Rehabilitation Credit (Post-Conflict ERC) is to help advance the
TSS goals of: (i) strengthening economic stability and supporting structural
reforms; and (ii) providing assistance to war affected population and
vulnerable groups. More specifically, the proposed Post-Conflict Economic
Rehabilitation Credit (Post-Conflict ERC) is aimed at paving the way for the
transition from a state controlled economy to a market economy by encouraging
the Government to help pursue policy reforms needed for the stabilization and
recovery of the economy, expand the role of the private sector in the economy
by inducing greater efficiency in the use of private sector resources, and
continued commitment to the implementation of the privatization program. The
proposed Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit (Post-Conflict ERC)
also aims at introducing greater transparency and improved governance in the
management of key areas (oil and forestry resources, public funds).
Environmental Aspects    The credit will have no environmental impact.   In
accordance with IDA's Operational Directive (O.D. 4.01), the proposed Credit
has been placed in category C, and does not require an environmental



assessment.
Poverty category         Due to the wars, the poverty incidence estimated at
70t prior to 1998 has increased sharply and unemployment is widespread (more
than 60t of labor force). At the end of one or two years, it is expected
that the implementation of key structural reforms needed, governance and
transparency measures envisaged under the proposed Post-Conflict Economic
Rehabilitation Credit (Post-Conflict ERC) will help stabilize and revitalize
the economy and pave the way for higher and sustained growth. This will allow
life to return to normalcy, with an indirect and influential effect on
poverty reduction.
Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Task Team Leader:
Salomon Samen
Telephone: (202) 458-1283
Fax: (202) 473-8466
Room: J7-133
AFTM3
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



