Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-7467-COB
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 30.0 MILLION (US$37.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO
FOR A
POST-CONFLICT ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
July 6, 2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit         =          CFA Franc (CFAF)*
US$1 (Average 2000)      =                709
US$1 (July 2, 2001)                       775
* The CFAF is pegged to the French Franc (FF) at the rate of FF l=CFAF 100
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB                      African Development Bank
AFD                      Agence Francaise de Developpement
AIDS                      Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BEAC                      Banque des Etats de 1 'Afrique Centrale
CAP                       UN Consolidated Inter-Agency Appeal
CFAA                      Country Financial Accountability Assessment
DRC                       Democratic Republic of Congo
ERRC                      Economic Rehabilitation and Recovery Credit
EU                        European Union
FY                        Fiscal Year
GDP                       Gross Domestic Product
GNP                       Gross National Product
HIV                       Humane Immunodeficiency Virus
IBRD                      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA                       International Development Agency
IDF                       Institutional Development Fund
IMF                       International Monetary Fund
NGO                       Nongovernmental Organization
OCHA                      Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
PCF                       Post-Conflict Fund
PER                       Public Expenditure Review
PIPC                      Programme Intermediaire Post-Conflit
SNPC                      Societe Nationale de Petrole du Congo
TSS                       Transitional Support Strategy
UNDP                      United Nations Development Program
Vice President             Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director          Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager            Cadman Atta Mills
Task Team Leader           Salomon Samnen



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONGO
POST-CONFLICT ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    INTRODUCTION ...................................................................1I
Il.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS .                                     .............................................I
Ill.      IMPACT OF THE CONFLICT ....................................................................2
IV.       GOVERNMENT RESPONSE AND MEDIUM-TERM  REFORM  PROGRAM  ...........                                  ..........3
A.    Structural Reforms .................................................................4
B.    Governance and Transparency .................................................................5
C.    Administrative and Institutional Capacity Building ...............................................................6
D.   Macroeconomic Framework Improvement .................................................................6
V. DONOR SUPPORT                                                        .7
VI.   BANK TRANSITION STRATEGY TO SUPPORT THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM ......8
VII.      MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND POVERTY SITUATION ..................................8
A.    Recent Macroeconomic Developments ...............................................................9
B.    Outlook and Challenges Ahead ..............................................................             11
VIII.    THE PROPOSED CREDIT ................................................................                     12
A.    Objectives and Design ..............................................................                     12
B.    Justification for the Proposed Credit ....................          .......................................... 12
C.    Features and Content of the Credit ..............................................................       13
D.   Credit Implementation  and Institutional Arrangements                  ..S.................................. 15
F.    Government Ownership and Participatory Approach ............................................................. 16
IX.       BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................................................                     16
A.    Benefits ............................................................... 16
B.    Risks ................................................................                                  17
X. RECOMMENDATION .18
ANNEX A - TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EvENTs.                                                                     1 9
ANNEX B I - MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS ..........................................................................................-20
ANNEX B2 - PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES INDICATORS/MEANS OF VERIFICATION AND LINKS WITH THE
POLICY MAT....24
ANNEX C - LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLCY .25
ANNEX D - SOCIAL INDICATORS .35
ANNEX E - REPUBLIC OF CONGO AT A GLANCE .36
ANNEX F - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS .37
ANNEX G - STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN CONGO .40
COUNTMY MAP .41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF CONGO
POST-CONFLICT ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Congo
Implementing Agency:    Ministry of Finance, Economy, and Budget.
Amount:                 SDR 30.0 million (US$37.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                  Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:         0.50 percent on undisbursed Credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Disbursement:           The proposed credit will be disbursed in a single tranche of
US$37.5 million. Signing of the proposed Credit will not take
place until all arrears have been cleared. Release of the proposed
Credit's proceeds will happen only after effectiveness.
Net Present Value:      Not applicable.
Map:                   IBRD 28865
Project ID No.:         PE-PO-073316-LN
Background and          The proposed Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit
Description:            (Post-Conflict ERC) is an integral part of the Bank's Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS) considered by the Board on January 16,
2001, to assist the Republic of Congo in the transition from war
to sustainable peace, in the context of the Government's 2000-
2002 Interim Post-Conflict Program. It is the first operation of
the TSS that would support implementation of: (i) key structural
reforms; and (ii) improved governance and better transparency in
the management of the country's natural wealth and public
funds. These reforms are needed to stabilize and bring about the
economic rehabilitation that would pave the way for broad-based
poverty reduction, and a higher and sustained growth path in the
years ahead, after three decades of centrally planned economic
management and almost a decade of wars. Proceeds of the
proposed Credit would provide critical funds necessary to assist
the Republic of Congo with foreign exchange cash immediately
after arrears to the World Bank have been paid.
(i)



Rationale for IDA       The Bank's involvement is justified by the need to: (i) address
involvement:           the immediate post-conflict needs of the country; (ii) provide the
development leadership needed for the reengagement of the
international community in a country in the delicate and troubled
Central Africa region; and (iii) focus on the sustainable
development and poverty reduction agenda of reforms envisaged
under the TSS. In addition, the ceasefire and complete cessation
of hostilities since 1999, and the ongoing progress toward peace,
provide the international community with a window of
opportunity to (i) consolidate the home-grown and self-financed
national reconciliation process; (ii) support the country's
economic recovery and stabilization; and (iii) pave the way for
broad-based poverty reduction and growth in the years ahead,
after decades of inappropriate policies, poor governance, and
repeated social conflicts. The proposed credit will complement
support provided by other donors including the IMF, the EU,
AfDB, the UN system, and bilateral donors. The Credit will be
implemented in parallel with the Transparency and Governance
Capacity Building project, which is aimed at providing technical
assistance to increase transparency and improve governance in
the use of petroleum and forestry resources, as well as
management of public funds. Without the cash flow provided by
the proposed operation, the Republic of Congo would find it
very difficult to clear its arrears to the Bank, and access to Bank
financial and other support would not be restored.
Government Commitment: Since  1998, Government has  shown  commitment to
macroeconomic and structural reforms. This is illustrated by the
Government's resolve to vigorously pursue reforms launched by
the previous regime (e.g., divestiture of all Government-owned
forestry companies, privatization program for all commercial
banks and key public enterprises, and reform of business
regulatory framework), despite the lack of formal programns with
the Bank and IMF. Commitment at the highest level of the
country's leadership and the entire Government, as well as
support from the civil society, has been reaffirmed on several
occasions.
(ii)



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO
FOR A
POST-CONFLICT ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.    This report seeks approval to extend a Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit
(Post-Conflict ERC) to the Republic of Congo (RoC), for SDR 30.0 million, the equivalent of
US$37.5 million, on standard International Development Association (IDA) terms, with a
maturity of 40 years. The proposed Credit is an integral part of the Bank's Transitional Support
Strategy (TSS) considered by the Board on January 16, 2001, to assist Congo in the transition
from war to peace. The proposed Post-Conflict ERC would provide urgently needed quick
disbursing funds that are critical to support the Government of Congo's 2000-2002 Interim Post-
Conflict Program. Specifically, the proposed Post-Conflict ERC would: (a) support the
Government's effort to pursue and deepen structural reforms launched by the previous regime,
but interrupted by the resurgence of war at the end of 1998, with special attention given to the
banking sector deeply affected by the events; and (b) build the foundations for increased
transparency, improved governance, and accountability in public resources management.
2.    Actions envisaged under the proposed Credit would help the economy's rehabilitation
and result in higher and sustained growth in non-oil real GDP, estimated to recover to
5.8 percent in 2001 and 6.1 percent in 2002. This estimated growth performance would come
from sustained macroeconomic stability, higher private investments, lower cost of doing
business, and a broader revenue base for financing larger and more effective public expenditures
programs. Consolidating progress toward a sustainable peace, and the improved delivery of
essential services, would also help reduce the poverty incidence, while greater dynamism of a
revitalized private sector would help expand income-earning opportunities for the poor. Proceeds
of the proposed Credit would provide critical funds necessary to assist the Republic of Congo
with the foreign exchange cash flow immediately after the arrears to the World Bank have been
paid.
II.  COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
3.    Since independence in 1960, Congo (Brazzaville) has had a troubled history characterized
by ethnic strife, civil war, institutional instability, and poor governance. Ruined by three decades
of poor management under a centrally planned economy and Marxist inspired single-party rule,
and nearly a decade of violent conflict, the Republic of Congo has experienced economic



performance well below its potential. Social and economic conditions deteriorated sharply under
the centrally planned economy, with real GNP per capita falling by more than half, from
US$1300 in 1982 to US$630 in 2000. Social and poverty indicators worsened in the last decade,
as the country has been torn by political instability and a series of civil wars (1993-94, 1997, and
1998-99). Despite increased production and higher prices in the oil sector in the period 1997-99,
real GDP was stagnant in the same period. Because virtually all oil production is offshore and
represented, on average, more than 60 percent of GDP in the 1997-99 period, real GDP
stagnation in the same period reflects the sharp contraction (-19 percent) in the non-oil sector, as
a result of the conflict-inflicted damage to domestic productive capacity.
4.    While external developments were a factor underlying the poor economic performance
observed over the last 40 years, the more fundamental reasons for this poor performance were
inappropriate policies, weak economic management, poor governance, and civil war. All
conflicts in the last decade involved human suffering on a large scale. In addition, the Republic
of Congo (Brazzaville) has been confronted with unrest at its border with the Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC), and a sizable number of refugees (more than 100,000 people) has put
additional strain on the country's limited resources.
5.   In the last year, with the signing of ceasefire and end of hostilities agreements with key
military commanders of the defeated opposition, the security situation has improved dramatically
in Brazzaville and throughout the country. The challenge is now for the present regime to make
the dual transitions from civil war to sustainable peace, and from a state-controlled economy to
one that is market based. So far, in an effort to alleviate the plight of the poor and meet the most
urgent social and rehabilitation needs, Congolese authorities have focused their efforts on
humanitarian assistance and implementation of the peace process. These efforts culminated on
April 14, 2001 in a national dialogue on a new constitution and a convention for peace, and
national reconciliation of Congolese from all ethnic backgrounds and all political sensitivities.
With the return to normalcy, Congolese authorities are progressively shifting their focus toward
reconstruction and rehabilitation, along with reduction of internal and external macroeconomic
imbalances. Among the priorities are: tackling unemployment, re-launching productive activities,
and establishing a business-friendly regulatory framework to promote private sector
development.
III. IMPACT OF THE CONFLICT
6.    Whereas the wars of 1993-94 and 1997 were essentially limited to Brazzaville, the war of
1998-99 brought large-scale destruction to southern Congo (except the area around Pointe-
Noire), with dramatic social and humanitarian cost, widespread economic disruption, and
weakened institutional and human capacities.
7.    Social and Humanitarian Impact. The 1998-99 war created an unprecedented
humanitarian catastrophe, with 300,000 residents of Brazzaville fleeing the city and seeking
refuge in the forests, where they lived in appalling conditions for up to one year. At the height of
the 1998-1999 conflict, some 810,000 people, or almost a third of the population, were displaced,
of which 30,000 sought refuge in Gabon or the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Seventy
percent of those internally displaced were malnourished. Many people lost all their belongings
2



and suffered great physical and psychological hardship. The country was pillaged on both sides
of the front line. Iron sheets were stolen from houses and churches, fields were burned, and
health centers and other public buildings were looted. With the return of most displaced persons
to their original residences, needs have shifted away from emergency humanitarian interventions
toward social reintegration, infrastructure rehabilitation, and reconstruction.
8.    Economic Impact. The preliminary estimate of damage inflicted by the last two civil
wars is CFAF 1600 billion (about US$2.6 billion), well exceeding the size of the 1999 GDP.
Non-oil GDP, a better indicator to assess the impact of the war on domestic productive capacity
(as oil is produced essentially offshore), declined by 19 percent between 1996 and 1999. By the
time of the outbreak of the 1997 civil war, Congo's economy had already been weakened by
years of poor economic management and governance, as well as the bloody 1993-94 conflict and
social unrest. Most of the country's basic infrastructure has been destroyed or is in a state of
collapse due to lack of maintenance. It is estimated that 50 percent of agricultural tools were
destroyed and 75 percent of livestock lost. Many archives were destroyed or looted. The
distribution network, already weak before the war, collapsed, and most feeder roads are
impassable. Basic public services, including telecommunications, water and electricity services,
road and rail transportation were severely disrupted. The railway line between Pointe Noire and
Brazzaville, the economic umbilical cord of the country, was destroyed at several points. The war
has also taken its toll on schools and health care facilities.
9.    The rehabilitation needs of the country, including in basic infrastructure (railway, roads,
electricity, water, and telecommunications), are immense. Individual needs include the
reconstruction of houses and the provision of means of production lost during the war, including
tools, seeds, and livestock. Private business has also been severely affected by the upheavals
caused by the unstable security situation in the country. The banking sector was strongly affected
and the commercial banks came out of the events insolvent and illiquid. Most bank deposits
were de facto frozen and the banks had no resources to contribute to the regeneration of
economic activity. For communities, the needs include the rehabilitation of every form of
economic and social infrastructure, as well as the resources for the proper functioning of this
infrastructure. To date, the Government has rehabilitated the railway line, and donors, UN
agencies, and NGOs have initiated limited rehabilitation activities.
10.   Institutional and Capacity Impact.  The civil unrest and insecurity created by the
repetitive conflict have significantly weakened Congo's institutional and human capacities. The
disruption of the country's administrative capacity has been severe, with losses of manpower,
records, and IT equipment for most institutions. Most public offices and buildings were burned
down, destroyed, vandalized, or pillaged in 8 of the country's 11 regions. There was a heavy loss
of vehicles belonging to the Government, private and public institutions, and civilian
populations. Many professionals in key areas left the country, leaving a vacuum in critical areas
of service delivery.
IV. GOVERNMENT RESPONSE AND MEDIUM-TERM REFORM PROGRAM
11.   Following the 1998-99 war, and in order to create the social conditions that would allow
the population to fully participate in the normalization of political life and economic
3



reconstruction, the Government in early 2000 prepared a Medium-Term Interim Post-Conflict
Program (PIPC) for the 2000-2002 period. The PIPC aims to address immediate post-conflict
needs, revitalize the economy, and build the foundation for sustainable economic and social
development under a market-based economy. The IMF endorsed the Government's program, on
November 17, 2000, under the IMF's Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance Program.
12.   The Government's PIPC is centered around four main objectives: (a) pursuing structural
reforms through privatization cum restructuring of the country's three commercial banks,
privatization of the five largest public enterprises, and improved regulatory framework for
private sector business; (b) laying the foundation for better governance and increased
transparency in management of the country's natural wealth (oil and forestry) and public funds;
(c) rebuilding and strengthening the country's administrative and institutional capacity, to enable
growth in the non-oil sector to resume; and (d) improving the macroeconomic framework and
the social climate to create job opportunities, enhance production capacity, and promote growth.
A.   Structural Reforms
13.   To lay the foundation for higher and sustainable growth in the years ahead, under a
market-based economy, Congolese authorities aim to increase the private investment response
and allow efficient business operations in Congo. To this end, they will pursue privatization cum
restructuring of all three commercial banks and key public utilities (water, electricity,
telecommunications, railway, oil products distribution), rationalization of the business regulatory
framework, and improved business incentives. The overall aims of the program are to remove the
major policy-related and institutional impediments to private sector development in a coherent
and transparent manner.
14.   Actions Already Taken. The Government has already privatized all forestry companies
and some consumer good producing companies (mill company, animal food and livestock
equipment company). In addition, the Government recently finalized privatization of downstream
activities in the oil/petroleum sector with the dismantling of the former national oil company,
Hydrocongo, and the takeover of downstream oil distribution by foreign private oil companies
(TotalFina and Shell). Preparatory work for privatization in other sectors, including water,
electricity, telecommunications, railroad, and hotels, is well advanced. Special attention is being
given to restructuring the banking sector, a prerequisite for the restoration of a working payment
system, macroeconomic stability, and private sector development. A commercial bank, the
Union Congolaise des Banques (UCB), has already been taken over by a foreign private investor,
and its restructuring finalized with the split of the bank into a healthy unit taken by the foreign
private investor, and a liquidation structure transferred to a Government's agency, the Caisse
Congolaise d'Amortissement, CCA. With Bank assistance, Government has also drafted new
regulatory frameworks for private sector investments in key areas (water and electricity code,
telecommunication code, and forestry code). An investment chart, in harmony with regionally
agreed CEMAC provisions, has also been finalized with Bank assistance, and a one -stop
investment window established. and implementation of regulations to enhance loan recovery by
the CCA). The proposed Credit also aims at achieving significant progress toward privatization
of key public utilities. In this context the bidding process for the concession or leasing of water
and electricity companies has been prepared and a notice sent for advertisement in local and
4



international newspapers; while the notice of request for expression of interest for the private
concession of the Congo Ocean railway (CFCO) has also been sent for advertisement in local and
international newspapers.
15.   Actions To Be Taken. In the context of its Medium-Term Program, the Government
aims at deepening the ongoing privatization and liberalization process through the following
actions:
* Completing privatization of the two other commercial banks (Caisse pour l 'Agriculture
et l'Industrie et le Commerce, CAIC, and the Banque pour l'Industrie et le
Developpement du Congo, BIDC), with the signing of protocol agreements with potential
foreign private partners who have expressed their preparedness to participate in the newly
restructured and privatized banks (November 2001);
*  Strengthening the regulatory framework in key markets by publishing selected
implementation decrees of the newly approved forest code; adopting the post and
telecommunications code, the water code, and the electricity codes, and enacting their
implementation decrees; and reviewing the regulatory framework for port authority
services (September 2001);
*  Removing policy-related impediments to private sector investments and efficient business
operations by finalizing price liberalization and elimination of remaining monopolies,
enacting the regional investment code and its implementation decree; effectively
implementing a one-stop investment window, and setting up a commission for review of
the labor code (September 2001).
B.    Governance and Transparency
16.   Recognizing the importance of good governance and increased transparency in the
promotion of democracy, improvement of the Government's overall budget performance, and
effectiveness in the delivery of public services, the Government's program aims at laying the
foundation for increased transparency and better management of the country's wealth (oil and
forestry) and public funds.
17.   Actions Already Taken. The Government has already upgraded the budget expenditure
control and monitoring system and is now adhering strictly to the principle of consolidated cash
management at the Treasury. With the approval of the organic budget law by the National
Transition Council in early 2000, the principle of consolidation of cash management at the
Treasury has been reinforced, and at the moment only the budget directorate can financially
commit the Government. Because oil revenue, the most dominant source of Government revenue
(78 percent of total revenue in 2000), has been managed with relative opacity, the proposed
Credit aims at clarifying the financial relationships between the state and the national oil
management company, the Societe Nationale des Hydrocarbures du Congo (SNPC). This
substantial improvement in the transparency of oil revenue management in Congo, a major
departure from past opaque practices, has been done with the signing on June 29, 2001, of a
framework agreement clarifying the relationship between SNPC and the state represented by the
5



Minister of Finance and Budget and the Minister of Oil Industry. The new framework provides
for transparency in all SNPC transactions, regular publication of actual revenues collected from
all sources, revenue forecasts, revenues transferred to the Government, publication of all
transactions and trade practices, regular audits, and publication of SNPC financial statements.
18.   Action To Be Taken. As part of its Medium-Term Reform Program, the Government
also aims at completing the following actions in the coming months:
* Launch of the first audit the national oil company (SNPC); and subsequent
implementation of regular audits;
* Review of public markets procurement rules and practice, and definition of directions for
reform;
* Institutionalization of the Auditor General (Cour des comptes), and implementation
decree;
* Launch of the first audits of public funds management for a few institutions by the
Auditor General;
* Assessment of the status of all logging permits, and design of a strategy and schedule for
new allocations and revisions of current permits;
* Assessment of forestry tax collection for the current fiscal year; with indication of
pursuits, backlog penalties, and exoneration; with tables by type of taxes collected,
company, and permit; as well as projection for next fiscal year;
* Mapping of existing and proposed national protected areas network, with phasing of all
steps leading to final protected area status.
C.   Administrative and Institutional Capacity Building
19.   Given the severe disruption of the country's administrative and institutional capacity,
following the two most recent conflicts, a major priority of the Government's Medium-Term
Program is the restoration of coordination within the public sector. Policy formulation and
coordination were enhanced with the creation of an inter-ministerial committee charged with the
coordination and implementation of economic policy, as well as the coordination of all ministries
involved. The accompanying Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project will
support and provide technical assistance needed to implement actions envisaged under the
proposed Credit, with priority given to Government agencies involved in economic and finance
management, and efficient management of oil wealth and forestry resources.
D.   Macroeconomic Framework Improvement
20.   During the conflicts, fiscal management became disrupted as established budgetary
procedures were abandoned and spending priorities shifted toward security and humanitarian
6



assistance. Without access to domestic or external financing, budget deficits were financed
largely through accumulation of arrears. Fiscal deficits spilled over into the balance of payments,
increasing the stock of external debt arrears to about 94 percent of GDP by end-1999. The IMF's
ongoing Post-Conflict Emergency Assistance Program seeks to support the Government's effort
to redress public finance imbalances through more effective expenditure management and
improved revenue collection. IMF support will be complemented by the Public Expenditure
Review (PER) envisaged under the Bank's Transition Support Strategy. In addition, the
accompanying Transparency and Governance Capacity Building project will support and provide
technical assistance needed for better expenditure management and improved revenue collection.
21.   Satisfactory completion of structural, governance, and transparency reform measures, as
agreed with IDA, would be triggers for coming IDA adjustment operations. Successful
implementation of the proposed Post-Conflict ERC as well as the ongoing IMF Post-Conflict
Program would help eliminate remaining barriers and institutional impediments to private sector
led-growth, and pave the way for the formulation, under the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(PRSP), of a medium-term program aimed at achieving rapid, sustainable economic growth and
further reducing poverty. Such a program would allow Congo to benefit from substantial external
debt relief under the Enhanced HIPC initiative, which is critical for alleviating the present heavy
debt burden that seriously hampers its economic and social development.
V.   DONOR SUPPORT
22.  In light of the return to normalcy since the end of hostilities at the end of 1999, and given
the worsening poverty situation, Congo's donor partners have shown strong support to the
Government in its rehabilitation, recovery, peace, and national reconciliation process. In this
context, the Bank led a multi-donor assessment mission in March-April 2000 to organize the
reengagement of the international community into Congo. The mission included multilateral
institutions (AfDB, EU, UNDP, OCHA, UNICEF, FAO, ILO, UNHCR, WHO) and bilateral
donors (France, United States, and Italy). The Bank also chaired a donors' meeting in Paris in
early October 2000 in support of the Government's Interim Post-Conflict Program and the IMF's
Post-Conflict Emergency Assistance Program. Donor support at the Paris meeting was well
beyond original expectations.
23.   Donor coordination was also strengthened at an international humanitarian donors
meeting and UN Consolidated Appeal (UN CAP), organized in Geneva in July 2000 by UNDP
and the UN OCHA. Although support for the UN CAP was mixed, the UN CAP process was
important for its symbolism, and for putting Congo back on the world map after years of quasi
isolation. France, the United States, and Italy are actively involved in diverse social and
humanitarian activities in the field. Eleven UN agencies are present on the ground and active in
various areas (e.g., revival of productive activities, emergency needs, reestablishment of basic
social services and infrastructure, promotion of democracy and human rights). The EU and AfDB
are presently finalizing preparation of their post-conflict strategies. The IMF Emergency Post-
Conflict program was approved on November 17, 2000, and the Bank Transitional Support
Strategy for Congo considered by the Board on January 16, 2001.
7



VI. BANK TRANSITION STRATEGY TO SUPPORT
THE GOVERNMENT PROGRAM
24.   The proposed Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit is an integral part of the
Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) to assist the Republic of Congo in the transition from
war to sustainable peace. The TSS spans a 24-month period in support of the Govemment's
2000-2002 Interim Post-Conflict program, in areas where the Bank has a clear comparative
advantage.  The proposed Credit is the first operation of the TSS that would support
implementation of: (a) key structural reforms; and (b) improved governance and better
transparency in the management of the country's natural wealth and public funds. These reforms
are needed to stabilize and bring about the economic rehabilitation that would pave the way for
broad-based poverty reduction, and higher and sustained growth path in the years ahead, after
three decades of centrally planned economic management and almost a decade of wars.
25.   Other operations under the TSS include: (a) an Emergency Demobilization and
Reintegration Project (EDRP) to help demobilize and subsequently reintegrate about 10,000 ex-
combatants into civil civilian life; (b) a Transparency and Govemance Capacity Building Project
to accompany reforms envisaged under the proposed Post-Conflict ERC; (c) an Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Living Conditions project to address unemployment issues
through labor-intensive micro projects; and (d) an AIDS/HIV project to address the growing
threat of AIDS.
VII. MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND POVERTY SITUATION
26.   Overview. A middle income country during the 1980s, the Republic of Congo has seen a
marked decline in living standards over the past decade, with Congo's GNP per capita decreasing
by more than 50 percent from 1982 to 2000. The decline in per capita income, and corresponding
increase in poverty incidence (more than 70 percent of Congolese live below the international
poverty line of US$1/day), is troubling given the country's vast natural resource endowments
(rich oil and forestry resources, fertile land with plentiful rain). One of the largest oil producers in
sub-Saharan Africa, Congo has failed to effectively use these resources to build the basic
infrastructure of the country and improve the living standards of its people. Characterized by ill-
advised borrowing and misguided economic policies (state intervention in almost all industries
and services, widespread price controls, inadequate investment incentives, poor labor legislation,
distorted trade policies, large and inefficient public enterprises), Congo has experienced
economic performance well below its potential during the first three post-independence decades.
The three wars of the last decade have accelerated deterioration of Congo's poverty indicators
and its social performance.
27.   Health Situation. The health gains achieved through an extensive health care network
built in the early decades following independence in 1960 have been lost in the past decade.
Infant vaccination rates for diseases such as measles have steadily dropped, to just 58 percent in
1999, from 99.4 percent 20 years ago. Diseases such as tuberculoses have nearly quadrupled,
from 32 per 100,000 in 1985 to 113 per 100,000 in 1999. Spread of HIV/AIDS is another
challenge for the country in coming years. A recent study by the Ministry of Health showed that
the 15.5 percent of pregnant women are infected with HIV/AIDS in Pointe Noire, and 6.6 percent
8



in Brazzaville. Due to the deteriorating health system, coupled with AIDS and deaths from the
wars, life expectancy has dropped to 48.6 years in 1999 from 53 years in 1993. The health system
suffers from a lack of facilities and financial assistance to tackle this challenge. The Government
spent only 1.2 percent of GDP for health in 1999, compared to 2.6 percent of GDP in early the
1990s. In addition, the percentage of people with access to clean water and sanitary conditions
has dropped over the same period, to 46 and 65.5 percent, respectively, in 1999.
28.   Education. The primary school enrollment rate in the Congo was one of the highest in
sub-Saharan Africa in the mid 1980s. However, gross primary school enrollment ratesi dropped
from 125.2 percent in 1987 to 78.6 percent in 1998. Similarly, gross secondary school enrollment
rates have dropped from about 70 percent in the early 1980s to 35.7 percent in 1998. As a result
of these declining enrollment rates, literacy rates have also dropped to 59.5 percent, from about
65 percent in the mid 1980s. In recent years, Government spending on education declined to
3 percent of GDP, compared with about 8 percent 20 years ago. Lack of schoolteachers and
crumbling infrastructure are some of the key problems facing the sector. In addition to higher
budgetary needs for social services, Government institutions and capacity have to be
strengthened for better outcomes.
A.   Recent Macroeconomic Developments
29.  In 1997, real GDP declined by 2.4 percent. It rebounded by 3.7 percent in 1998, before
declining again by 3.2 percent in 1999. From 1982 to 2000, GNP per capita fell by more than
half, and the number of people on the payrolls in both formal and informal sectors shrunk by
about 35 percent, even though the population grew by about 30 percent during the same period.
Today, unemployment is widespread at more than 60 percent of the labor force. With the
successful implementation of the peace process following the ceasefire accord at the end of 1999,
the economy rebounded in 2000 with a real GDP growth of 7.6 percent, higher than previously
expected. Due to relatively higher oil prices in 1999 and 2000, the overall fiscal balance moved
from deficits (-20 percent of GDP in 1998, -6.2 percent in 1999) to surplus in 2000 (1.2 percent
of GDP), for the first time in several years. The primary fiscal balance also improved, from a
deficit of -6.3 percent of GDP in 1998, to a surplus of 5.6 percent in 1999, and 8.9 percent in
2000. Despite these positive developments, a close look at Central Government operations shows
that on the revenue side, non-oil revenues did not improve much despite the recent surge in
economic activity, and contributed only about 22 percent to total revenues, or 6.9 percent of
GDP, in 2000. Also on the expenditure side, and faced with huge humanitarian, security, and
reconstruction needs, current expenditure including the wage bill and common expenses - a
significant proportion of the total government budget - is continuing to increase despite the
Government's commitment to curtail its growth. Due to a record level of receipts from oil
exports, the current account deficit improved significantly since 1999, decreasing from
26.7 percent of GDP in 1999 to 12.2 percent of GDP in 2000. Thanks to higher export revenues,
gross reserves soared from about US$45 million in 1999 to US$223 million in 2000.
Gross primary enrollment is the ratio of all primary students, regardless of age, to the number of primary school
age children in the country.
9



30.   The government has also undertaken a number of emergency measures to revitalize the
economy, including the heavy capital investment of Government's own resources in the post-war
construction effort and resumption of the train route between Pointe-Noire and Brazzaville. As a
result of the implementation of such measures, productive activities have resumed, with
significant impact on real GDP growth in 2000 without inflationary pressures. Sectors such as
manufacturing, commerce, transport, and communications expanded at double-digit growth rates.
While the overall non-oil GDP grew at an impressive 15 percent, oil GDP in real terms shrank
slightly, by 1 percent. Real private consumption grew at 21 percent in 2000, following a steady
decline for more than a decade. Average inflation for 2000 was about 0.3 percent, due mainly to
the decline of food prices.
31.   The External Debt Situation. Congo is one of the most highly indebted countries in the
world. As of March 31, 2001, the total outstanding external debt amounted to about
US$5.4 billion, of which US$2.9 billion is made up of arrears. Of this outstanding external debt,
debt with Paris Club and other bilateral creditors represents 60 percent. Commercial bank debt
and multilateral debt represent, respectively, 20 and 11 percent of the total outstanding external
debt. Collateralized debt on future oil revenue and debt to a few privileged creditors represent,
respectively, 5 and 3 percent of the outstanding external debt. The total outstanding external debt
to GDP ratio stands at about 200 percent in 2000, and the total debt to exports ratio is about
235 percent in 2000. In March 31, 2001, outstanding external debt per capita amounted to
US$1,784, in contrast with a GNP per capita of only US$630.
32.   World Bank Debt Arrears. As of May 15, 2001, Congo's arrears to the World Bank
totaled US$ 63 million (US$58.3 million to IBRD, and US$4.7 million to IDA). Due to arrears
on service payments to the Bank, Congo's withdrawal rights under Bank loans and IDA credits
were suspended in 1997, and the country has been in non-accrual status since then. As agreed,
the Government has cleared all arrears to IDA and currently carries US$34 million debt arrears to
IBRD. The clearance of the remaining US$34 million IBRD debt arrears before disbursement of
the single tranche will be made possible by a bridge-financing loan currently being negotiated
between the Government of Congo and a third party. Signing of the proposed Credit will not take
place until all arrears have been cleared. Credit proceeds will be released only after Credit
effectiveness. The proposed IBRD debt arrears clearance approach is consistent with the IMF
Post-Conflict program. It will pave the way for the resumption of normal IDA lending to Congo.
33.   Arrears to Other Multilateral and Bilateral Creditors. Congo is also in non-accrual
status with other multilateral institutions including AfDB, the European Investment Bank, Paris
Club creditors, and commercial banks. The country is current only on the external debt to a few
privileged private creditors associated with the collateralized debt on future oil revenue. Under
the ongoing IMF Post-Conflict Emergency Assistance Program, and pending a comprehensive
solution to the country's debt under the HIPC Initiative, agreement was reached for the
resumption of regular payment of debt falling due to multilateral and bilateral creditors as of
April 2001. This has been done with tremendous difficulty. Arrears to AfDB presently amount to
about US$86 million and arrears to bilateral Paris Club and other bilateral creditors amount to
US$1,456 million. Resolution of the country's external debt constraint under the HIPC
framework presently represents the most viable route for a sustainable solution to Congo's major
10



debt issue. A preliminary debt sustainability analysis will soon be carried out in coordination
with the Government to help Congo request substantial debt relief under HIPC Initiative.
B.    Outlook and Challenges Ahead
34.   Government stabilization measures under its Interim Post-Conflict Program are already
paying off. Non-oil GDP is expected to grow by 5.8 percent in 2001 and 6.1 percent in 2002.
However, oil production is expected to go down slightly due to a lack of sufficient oil in existing
wells and the delay in the construction of new oil wells. As a result, oil GDP is projected to
shrink by 0.2 percent in 2001 and 1.5 percent in 2002, and the overall GDP is expected to grow
by 3.1 percent in 2001 and 2.7 percent in 2002.
35.  In order to achieve broad-based poverty reduction, and higher and sustained growth
performance in the years to come, the agenda of reforms ahead is huge. Continued
macroeconomic stabilization, with a focus on improvement of the fiscal management taking into
account the high vulnerability to oil price shocks, will continue to be a priority. In this context,
efficient management of public expenditures, with resource reallocation toward priority sectors
(health, education, and infrastructure), should be the driving principle in the years ahead.
Reforms envisaged under the IMF-supported Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance Program, as
well as the Public Expenditure Review (PER) planned in the context of the Bank's TSS, would
pave the way for efficient public expenditure management. Pursuit and deepening of structural
reforms to expand the private sector and create jobs for the unemployed will also be critical.
36.   Because the oil sector is the most dominant sector of the economy, with about 67 percent
of GDP, 95 percent of exports, and 78 percent of total Government revenue in 2000, aggressive
diversification of the economy away from oil should figure prominently in the reform agenda.
This is particularly important as the agriculture sector contributes only about 4.5 percent to GDP
(13.5 percent to non-oil GDP), despite the vast size of the country and its huge natural resources
potential. Private sector growth and rural infrastructure are prerequisites to diversifying the
economy and achieving equitable growth in the long run. To achieve these objectives, the
Government would need to invest in rural infrastructure and an agriculture credit system for the
poor, and at the same time build a business-friendly regulatory framework and atmosphere for
private sector growth and foreign investment. In addition, since the economy is relatively small,
economic integration with neighboring countries should be a priority for improving the country's
export base and competitiveness. Moreover, targeted internal transport infrastructure and
adequate export promotion schemes will significantly help in achieving higher growth with an
impact on poverty reduction.
11



VIII. THE PROPOSED CREDIT
A.   Objectives and Design
37.   The main objective of the proposed Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit (Post-
Conflict ERC) is to help advance the TSS goals of strengthening economic stability and
supporting structural reforms. More specifically, the proposed Post-Conflict ERC will encourage
the Government to pursue policy and structural reforms needed to stabilize the economy and
expand the role of the private sector, including reform of the legal and regulatory framework in
key sectors, improved business incentives, and market liberalization. The proposed Post-Conflict
ERC would also help implement the privatization program, including restructuring cum
privatization of all commercial banks, privatization of all forestry companies, and privatization of
all key public utilities (water and electricity, telecommunications, railway, oil downstream
activities). These structural reforms would help pave the way for the transition from a state-
controlled economy to one that is market based. In addition, the proposed Post-Conflict ERC
would also aim at introducing greater transparency and improved governance in the management
of key areas (oil and forestry resources, public funds).
38.   The proposed Credit, encompassing a number of policy actions, would provide critical
financing necessary to advance structural reforms and governance/transparency measures of the
Government's 2000-2002 Interim Post-Conflict Program, as outlined in the policy matrix. The
Credit will be disbursed in a single tranche of US$37.5 million, to assist the Republic of Congo
with the foreign exchange cash flow, immediately after the arrears to the World Bank have been
paid. Signing of the proposed Credit will not take place until all arrears have been cleared.
Credit proceeds will be released only after Credit effectiveness. The clearance of arrears before
disbursement of the single tranche will be made possible by a bridge-financing loan currently
being negotiated between the Government of Congo and a third party. The policy package draws
on the ongoing policy dialogue with the Government in various sectors, and on the preparatory
work carried out in the preparation of the IMF Emergency Post-Conflict Program. The program
will be phased to address immediate priorities in the first year, and will be implemented over a
two-year period, starting in July 2001 and ending in June 2003.
B.   Justification for the Proposed Credit
39.   Under the ongoing IMF Emergency Post-Conflict Assistance Programs (June 1998 and
November 2000), which followed the 1997 and 1998-99 wars, the Congolese Government
embarked on measures aimed at enhancing sound macroeconomic policies and stabilizing the
economy. The economy remains poorly diversified, with a very high dependence on oil. More
than 70 percent of Congolese still live under the international poverty line of US$1/day; nearly
60 percent of the labor force is unemployed; and social indicators are worsening. Given the
country's wealth potential, the pervasiveness of poverty in Congo is unacceptable from a
development perspective, as it undermines the sustainability of the very reforms needed to put
Congo back on a sustainable higher growth path. In addition, the increasing number of poor and
unemployed youth could jeopardize the present peace and stability. Without a strong response of
private sector investment in non-oil sectors, a diversified Government resource base, a
12



responsive financial sector, and improvements in economic infrastructure (post and
telecommunication, water and electricity, railway, rural roads), the productive capacity of the
economy would remain weak and higher growth would neither be achieved nor sustained. In
conjunction with other operations envisaged in the TSS (Transparency and Governance Capacity
Building Project, Infrastructure and Improvement of Living Conditions Project), the proposed
Credit will aim to correct the identified weaknesses by supporting the deepening of structural
reforms, the pursuit of market liberalization, and the continued  privatization of public
enterprises to foster efficiency and enhance productive capacities.
40.   Poor governance over the last four decades has been one of the main sources of conflicts
in Congo. With the country's considerable oil resources (it is the third largest oil producer in
Africa, after Nigeria and Angola) and extensive forests, the Government of Congo has been the
sole manager of oil revenue, sharing the oil wealth through distribution of rewards and
employment in oversized public enterprises and bloated bureaucracy. The political struggle over
the control of the state in Congo has therefore been synonymous with the economic control of
oil. The vast majority of the population (more than 70 percent) in the Congo presently lives under
the international extreme poverty line, and successive Governments have failed to use the
country's endowment to improve the population's overall living standards. Given the role of
Government as the sole manager of oil and forestry resources, transparency as to how income is
translated into investments in development will be paramount. It is therefore essential to lay the
foundation for better governance and increased transparency in the management of oil wealth and
forestry resources, and thereby minimize future tensions over the control of the country's wealth.
C.   Features and Content of the Credit
41.   The proposed  Post-Conflict ERC will support the Government's 2000-2002 Interim
Post-Conflict Program, built on two legs around the agenda of: (a) pursuing structural reforms
halted by the conflict; and (b) improving governance and transparency in the management of the
country's natural wealth and public funds.
42.   The Structural Reforms Component. This component would help deepen structural
reforms through policy measures that would improve macroeconomic performance and create a
propitious business regulatory environment to enhance production, promote private sector
development, and boost growth. The reform measures envisaged under the proposed Credit will
be critical to reverse the deterioration of living standards and remove key constraints on growth.
These reforrns include: (a) the restructuring cum privatization of one of the three commercial
banks, the UCB, as described earlier in the Government's Medium-Term Program; and
(b) significant progress toward privatization of all public utilities by launching of a bidding
process for the concession of water electricity and electricity companies, and bringing to the
point of private concession the railway company.
43.   The Transparency and Governance Component. Because poor governance and lack of
transparency in the management of the country's oil over the last 40 years has been cited as one
of the main reasons for the conflicts of the last decade, addressing transparency and governance
issues could be achieved in Congo through measures aimed at effective implementation of a
framework formalizing and clarifying relations between the state and the national oil company,
13



the SNPC, as described in the Government Medium-Term Program. The proposed Credit would
help achieve that goal.
44.   Other Measures. The Government's tax collection and revenue administration and
expenditure management are being strengthened by measures, including monitoring of actual
expenditures, that are being carried out in the context of the ongoing IMF-Emergency Assistance
Program. In parallel with the implementation of the Post-Conflict ERC, the Government intends
to carry out a Public Expenditure Review to identify budget reform measures to enhance
transparency and accountability, and the poverty reduction impact of the budget. These actions
would be supported by the accompanying Governance and Transparency Capacity Building
operation.
45.   Tranching. The proposed Post-Conflict ERC is expected to be disbursed in a single
tranche of US$37.5 million, to assist the Republic of Congo with the foreign exchange cash flow
immediately after the arrears to the World Bank have been paid. Signing of the proposed Credit
will not take place until all arrears have been cleared. Credit proceeds will be released only after
Credit effectiveness. The policy package of the proposed Post-Conflict ERC draws on the work
progress achieved in 1999 and 2000 in the context of the Government's 2000-2001 Interim Post-
Conflict Program. Board presentation, Credit effectiveness, and release of the single tranche will
be conditioned on the maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, as agreed with
the Bank and the IMF.
46.   Conditions for Board presentation. As conditions of Board presentation, the
Government has already satisfactorily completed the following actions.
(a)   In the structural reforms component:
The restructuring cum privatization of the  Union Congolaise des Banques
(UCB), was completed with its takeover by a foreign private investor, and its
restructuring finalized with the split of the bank into a healthy unit taken by the
foreign private investor, and a liquidation structure transferred to a Government's
agency, the Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement, CCA. Significant progress
toward privatization of key public utilities has also been made with the
completion of the launching of the bidding process for the concession or leasing
of water and electricity companies. A notice was sent for advertisement of the
bidding process for the privatization of these two public utilities in local and
international newspapers. Also, the notice of request for expression of interest for
the private concession of the Congo Ocean railway (CFCO) has been prepared and
sent for advertisement in local and international newspapers.
(b)   In the governance and transparency component:
The operational framework between the national oil company and Govemrnment,
underlining transparent mechanisms for oil revenue transfers from the SNPC to
Government, was signed by chairman and CEO of SNPC, the Minister of Oil
Industry, and the Minister of Finance and Budget on June 29, 2001. This
substantial improvement in the transparency of oil revenue management in Congo,
14



a major departure from past opaque practices, provides for transparency in all
SNPC transactions, regular publication of actual revenues collected from all
sources, revenue forecasts, revenues transferred to the Government, publication of
all transactions and trade practices, regular audits, and publication of SNPC
financial statements.
47.   Condition for Credit Effectiveness, and Release of the Single Tranche. Satisfactory
clearance of arrears to the Bank, as well as refund of the outstanding balances in the special
accounts of the closed operations in the past portfolio, will be required before signing and
effectiveness of the Credit.
48.   Monitorable Benchmarks. As provided under the TSS, performance indicators with
which to monitor progress toward achieving the goals of Congo's reform program will be worked
out with the authorities. Some of these will be monitored by Bank staff to assess how the
proposed Post-Conflict ERC contributes to the success of the Government's efforts. Progress and
outcome indicators in the following areas will be monitored in the proposed credit:
(a) management of the reform process, (b) management of the external debt and adequacy of the
budget, (c) budget formulation and efficiency, and (d) transparency and accountability in the
public sector. A matrix summarizing means of verification of progress and outcome indicators of
the Credit, as well as important assumptions, follows in Annex B2:
D.   Credit Implementation and Institutional Arrangements
49.   Overall Coordination of the Credit. The Government's reform effort, supported by the
proposed EERC, will be managed under the overall supervision of a high-level steering
committee chaired by the Minister of Finance and Budget (MOF). The committee is composed
of key ministers (including the Minister of Forestry Economy, the Minister of Youth, the
Minister of Education, the Minister of Health), as well the head of the committee in charge of
the implementation and monitoring of the peace accords, and representatives of the Presidency).
An inter-ministerial technical committee, headed by a high-level coordinating staff, and
comprising senior level staffs from various line ministries, will assist the steering committee on a
day-to-day basis and will be responsible for monitoring the program, including policy indicators,
and coordinating the activities of all Government agencies involved in implementation of the
reform program. The inter-ministerial technical committee will also include NGOs and
representatives of civil society. The technical committee will regularly inform the Bank about the
progress of implementation. The overall reform program will be reviewed by the Government in
close coordination with regular Bank and IMF missions to ensure continued implementation of
all reforms within a sound macroeconomic framework.
50.   Disbursement Mechanism. The borrower will be the Republic of Congo, represented by
the Minister of Finance and Budget. Upon approval of the Credit, the MOF will open an account
at the regional Central Bank, the Banque des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale (BEAC). At the
request of the MOF, IDA will deposit the proceeds of the Credit in the Government's deposit
account. IDA disbursement will not be linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no
procurement requirements. In case the proceeds of the Credit are used for ineligible purposes
(e.g., to finance items imported from non-member countries, or goods or services on IDA's
15



standard negative list), IDA will require the borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the
account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in which case
IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the Credit. IDA reserves the right to
require an audit of the deposit account.
51.   Risk Management. Recognizing the capacity weaknesses as Congo comes out of the
conflict, Government expenditure management and processes are being reinforced to ensure that
funds are used appropriately. To improve overall financial integrity and accountability in the
management of public funds, improved expenditure controls and management systems, auditing
systems and anti-corruption actions are also being addressed in the governance and transparency
component of the proposed operation, as well as the accompanying Transparency and
Governance Capacity Building Project. For the medium term, further reform of public
expenditure processes, and procurement processes are being pursued with IMF and French
technical assistance to build the necessary capacity and systems. The Bank will plan in the
months ahead to undertake a detailed CFAA (Country Financial Accountability Assessment) that
will serve as the basis for an action plan to address identified weaknesses in risk management
and public financial accountability over the medium term.
E.   Environmental Aspects
52.   The program is classified as environmental category C because no component is expected
to have environmental impact.
F.    Government Ownership and Participatory Approach
53.   Government ownership of the Post-Conflict ERC and the program it supports is adequate
to ensure its successful implementation. During the Post-Conflict ERC identification, appraisal
and post-appraisal missions, broad-based discussions of the Post-Conflict ERC were carried
outside of the Government with trade unions, local and international NGOs, the private sector,
and donors present in the field.
IX. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits
54.   The potential benefits of support to Congo in the form of the proposed Post-Conflict ERC
largely outweigh the high level of risk. The first benefit is that the Credit would support policies
to help stabilize and revive the economy. The second benefit is the resolution of the IDA/IBRD
debt arrears constraint. Without the foreign exchange cash flow provided by the proposed
operation, the Republic of Congo would find it very difficult to clear its arrears to the Bank, and
access to Bank financial and other support would not be restored. The third benefit is the
restoration of financial discipline, as the proposed Credit would help restore transparency and
better governance in the management of public funds. The fourth benefit is the expected increase
of both domestic and foreign private investments, with improvement in business climate and
growth spreading to many sectors.
16



B.   Risks
55.  In light of Congo's lack of a track record in implementing reform programs, as well as its
relatively fragile political situation, the proposed credit is at considerable risk. The first risk is
political and social, associated with the failure of the process of transition to democracy to build
a political system that would resolve differences without recourse to violence. Such a failure
could lead to slippage in implementation, reversals in the reform package, and renewed conflict.
In the face of continued political and social instability, the Government's determination to
sustain implementation of the privatization program may be called into question, while efforts
toward increased transparency and better governance may not figure high on the agenda of
priorities. However, the resolve shown at the highest level of the present Government provides
assurance that measures agreed in the proposed Credit will be fully implemented. Also, despite
the lack of formal programs with IMF or the Bank since 1998, the Government has demonstrated
its ability to stay the course of reforms. This gives some reassurance that internal pressures can
be managed and policy reversal avoided. Furthermore, to minimize the risk of policy reversal, the
program is front loaded and designed to emphasize actions taken prior to Credit approval.
Finally, with the proposed launching of a national campaign to raise awareness about the
expected benefits of the reforms, support for reforms will be strengthened on a larger scale.
56.   The second risk is a possible failure of the international community to provide the needed
financial support. Such a failure could hinder the Government's ability to service its debt,
reconstruct its administrative and economic infrastructure, and rehabilitate some of the social
facilities destroyed (particularly health and education). This will also imply slowing the pace of
the peace and national reconciliation process, and thus exacerbating poverty and social distress.
The Government is aware that mitigation of this risk is largely dependent on donors' assessment
of developments in the political area. In this respect, the successful conclusion on April 14, 2001,
of the national dialogue on a new constitution and the convention for peace and national
reconciliation is an encouraging sign for continued efforts toward peace and the evolution of
democratic institutions in Congo Brazzaville, after years of war and social unrest. Once approved
by the National Transition Council by mid- 2001, a constitutional referendum will be organized
during the dry season by August-September 2001, to be followed by local, parliamentary, and
multiparty presidential elections by the end of 2001-early 2002. The Government's holding of
free and fair elections in 2001-2002 will be a critical determinant of continued donor support.
57.   The third risk is that the Government's weak institutional and administrative capacity
could lead to delays in the implementation of key measures. In this context, the inter-ministerial
coordination and follow-up committee will improve its coordination mechanisms and mobilize a
full-time technical team to work on program design and implementation. In addition, the
accompanying Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project will provide technical
assistance in the design and implementation of several measures supported by the Credit, while
technical assistance is also being provided by the AfDB, the EU, and France.
58.   The fourth risk is the failure of the private sector to seize the investment opportunities
opened by the liberalization of markets and the disengagement of the state from public
enterprises. Such a failure could be provoked by the Government's inability to develop a clear
direction for an accelerated economic liberalization strategy, which would delay private sector
17



investment and growth. This could be mitigated by strong and aggressive public relations
campaigns abroad on investment opportunities and prospects in Congo Brazzaville. Such a
campaign could also build credibility for an aggressive reform program.
59.   The fifth risk is the intensification of conflict in neighboring DRC and Angola. The field
liaison office recently reestablished in Brazzaville would, inter alia, help monitor the regional
security situation and assess its risks on the emerging portfolio, in collaboration with the UN
system and donors present in the field.
60.   The risks are considerable in Congo, but the cost of no support from the international
community would exacerbate the violence, which has been clearly under control since the end of
1999. A lack of support from the international community would also create a lost generation of
uneducated youngsters who could be a danger to the society in the years to come, as the social
systems further fall in disarray. Uncontrolled violence and continued instability in the Republic
of Congo would also have severe implications for peace in the delicate Great Lakes region and
for all of Central Africa.
X.  RECOMMENDATION
61.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Articles of Agreement of
the Association, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
July 6, 2001
18



ANNEX A - TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
Time taken to prepare the Credit:     4 months
Project prepared by:                  Government and IDA staff
ROC Decision Meeting:                 May 23, 2001
Appraisal:                            June 1
Negotiations:                         June 18, 2001
Post-Appraisal:                       June 18, 2001
Board Presentation:                   July 31, 2001
Effectiveness                         August, 2001
Project Completion:                   June 2003
This operation was prepared by a team led by Salomon Samen (Task Team Leader,
AFTM3) and including Solange Alliali (Senior Counsel, LEGOP), Renee Desclaux
(Disbursement Officer, LOAAF), Francesco Sarno (Lead Procurement Specialist),
(AFTQK), Prosper Biabo (Consultant), Raju Kalidindi (Consultant), Nadege
Nouviale (Programn Assistant, AFTM3), Sveto Tintchev (Senior Telecommunication
Engineer, CITPO), Ousmane Sissoko (Resident Representative for Gabon and
Congo, AFTGI), Karim Jacques Budin (Lead Railway Specialist,INFTD), Andre
Ryba (Lead Banking Specialist), Giuseppe Topa (Lead Forestry Specialist, AFTR2),
Noureddine Bouzaher (Sr. Energy Economist AFTEG). The peer reviewers were
Chukwuma Obidegwu (Lead Economist, AFTM3) Brian Ngo (Lead Economist,
AFTM5), and  Steve Holtzman  (Senior Social Scientist, ECSSD).   The
Macroeconomics Sector Manager was Cadman Atta Mills, and the Country Director
was Emmanuel Mbi.
19



ANNEX B1 - MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
Objectives       Strategies and           Actions already taken                  Actions to be taken                Timing
Measures
1. Pursue and     Privatization of    Privatization of UCB already completed  Finalization of the privatization of all    - Board condition.
deepen Structural  Banks, key Public   with takeover by COFIPA ,opening     commercial banks. (CAIC,COFIPA,     Completion of
Reforms           utilities and oil   balance sheet of COFIPA underway. Split  BIDC)                            restructuring cum
downstream         of asset and liabilities of CAIC and BIDC                                 privatization of UCB and
activities.        underway. Search of foreign private                                       transfer of liquidation of
partners underway.                                                        the bank to CCA
- Signing of a protocol for
CAIC and BIDC
(November 2001)
Preparation of request for bidding    Release of request for bidding      - Board condition
proposals completed for the concession of  proposals for the concession of
water(SNDE) and electricity (SNE)     water(SNDE) and electricity (SNE)
companies. Bidding to be released soon.   companies)
Preparation of Press release for request for  Press release of request for intent for    -Board condition
intent for the concession of the railway  bidding proposal for the concession of
company (CFCO)completed. Publication    the railway company (CFCO)
of press release soon
Action partly completed. Takeover of  Privatization of remaining lot of   - Signing of ownership
downstream distribution by Shell and  downstream oil industry            transfer agreements with
TotalFina-Elf. Intent to purchase the last                                Shell and Totalfina;
remaining lot expressed by many oil                                       Release of request for
companies including Agip, Mobil, Texaco,                                  bidding proposals for the
BP, Tamoil, and Engen                                                     privatization of the third
lot. September 2001
Social plan already prepared by a technical  Adoption of Social Action Plan  - September 2001
committee at the Bank financed        accompanying privatization program
Pnvatization Committee. _
20



Objectives       Strategies and           Actions already taken                 Actions to be taken                 Timing
___ _  Measures
I. Pursue and     Improved legal and  Forestry Code already approved by the  Publication of selected implementation   - September 2001
deepen            regulatory          parliament. Need implementation decree.   decrees of the newly approved forest
Structural        framework for                                             code covering the following themes:
Reforms           business                                                 (a) procedures for forestry control and
(continued)                                                                 sanctions; (b) civil servants
performance rewarding system;
(c) ecogards and auxiliary field staff
status
Post and Telecommunication code already   Posts & Telecommunications:     - September 2001
drafted with Bank assistance. Need    Adoption of a Sectoral Policy
approval and implementation decree.   Declaration, and related regulatory
texts, and implementation decrees
Government's Policy Declaration on Post
and Telecommunication already drafted.    Publication of decree on the split of  - September 2001
Posts and Telecommunications
Decree on the split of post and      (publication of beginning and closing
Telecommunication already drafted     balance sheets for the two new
companies)
Posts & telecommunications Code:   - September 2001
approbation by the Government &
adoption by the parliament, with
implementation decrees.
Water and electricity code already drafted   Water and Electricity Code:  - September 2001
with bank assistance                  approbation by Government & adoption
by parliament, with implementation
decrees.
Petroleum Code (law on distribution of  - September 2001
oil products and price structure):
approbation by the Government and
adoption by the parliament, with
implementation decrees.
21



Objectives        Strategies and      Actions already taken                 Actions to be taken                 Timing
Measures
Agreement reached on the framework    Framework for autonomous Port of   - September 2001
reached                               Pointe-Noire adopted (revision of
legislation to split port authority
functions with port operations including
____________________________________  participation  of users).
I. Pursue and     Improved business  Investment chart drafted              Investments Chart: approbation by   - September 2001
deepen Structural  incentives                                               Government and adoption by
Reforms                               One-stop investment window established.   parliament
(continued)                           Need to make it fully operational and
effective                             Strengthening of One stop investment
Window
Committee for the review of the labor code  Labor Code: Launching of a study to  - September 2001
being set up                          review labor code constraints.
II. Improved      Transparency in    Framework signed between the SNPC, the   Signing of framework formalizing  - Board condition
Governance and    Oil Resources       Minister of oil industry, and the Minister of relationships between the national oil
Transparency in    management         Finance on June 29, 2001.             company, SNPC, and Government;
management of
the country's
wealth and public
funds
Launching of the first audit of SNPC,    - September 2001
and subsequent generalization of two
annual audits for SNPC
First report publication of SNPC   - September 2001
activities( production, actual revenue
and revenue forecast) as provided under
the framework between the national oil
company, SNPC, and Government
22



Objectives       Strategies and           Actions already taken                  Actions to be taken                Timing
Measures
II. Improved      Transparency in                                           Assessment of forestry tax collection    - September 2001
Governance and    Forestry Resources                                        for current fiscal year; with indication
Transparency in                                                             of pursuits, backlog penalties and
management of                                                               exonerations; by type of tax, by
the country's                                                               company and by permit. Projection for
wealth and public                                                           next fiscal year.
funds (continued)
Mapping of existing and proposed   - September 2001
national protected areas network, with
phasing of all steps leading to final
protected area status.
Improved                                                 Institutionalization of the General  - September 2001
governance and                                           auditor's office "Cour des comptes")
accountability in                                        and publication of related
management of                                            implementation decrees.
Public funds
Effective launching of audit for a few
public funds management (effective  - December 2001
implementation and respect of legal
deadlines for audits of public funds
management).
Review committee set up and headed by  Review of Public Markets procurement  -September 2001
General Director of Programming      rules, procedures, and practice and
direction for change.
III. Post-Conflict   Improved         Monitoring and follow-up team appointed.  Appointment of Post-Conflict ERC  -Before Board
ERC               coordination and                                          coordinator and staffing of the     presentation
Coordination and   monitoring of the                                        coordination unit.
Monitoring        Credit
23



ANNEX B2 - PROGRESS AND OUTCOMES INDICATORS/MEANS OF VERIFICATION
AND LINKS WITH THE POLICY MATRIX
Development        Progress        Outcome            Means of         Links with the          Key
Objectives       Indicators       Indicators     verification and     Policy Matrix       assumptions
Economic
recovery          Degree of       Structural       Effective actions    Satisfactory        Political will to
momentum in   reforms ongoing   on all structural   completion of        continue with
Improved          transparently    in a satisfactory   reforms agreed in   structural reforms  the privatization
Management of   implementing    manner             the Post-conflict    Board condition as    program &
the reform        structural                       ERC                 well as all actions  other reforrns
process           reforms                                              agreed under the
Medium Term
Program
Improved
Management of
external debt and  Commitment to   Arrears to      Reduction of        Board presentation    Political will for
adequacy of the    manage the     multilateral     IDA/IlBRD arrears   of the Credit and    a definitive
budget            external debt    creditors cleared  to US$ 30 m, and    satisfaction of   solution to the
situation,      and arrears to   regular payments    disbursement        country's debt
including       bilateral and    of scheduled debt   condition + progress  issue
arrears         commercial       payments +         towards HIPC
clearance       creditors        progress towards
stabilized       HIPC
Public sector
management &
institutions.
Timeliness of    Publication of    Signing and      Satisfaction of Board  Strong
Improved Budget  budget           annual audit of   implementation of   condition re: signing   willingness at
formulation and   formulation &    accounts of the    the              of framework        the highest
efficiency        degree of       national oil      SNPC/Government  between SNPC and    political level to
implementation   company(SNPC)  framework, and      Government           proceed with
regular publication                     increased
of accounts and                        transparency &
operations                              governance
reforms
Transparency      Extent to which   Regular        Publication in the    Satisfaction of    Political will
and account. in   the authorities    publication of  official journal and  Medium Term      against
the public sector   monitor the   awards of        private papers of    Transparency and   regulatory
prevalence of    contracts over    said contracts.  governance action re:  forbearance and
corruption &    CFAF 25 million  Free Publication of  institutionalization of  effective
implement                        sanctions of civil    Auditor General and   implementation
sanctions                        servants (low as   publication of audits   of rules
transparently                    well as senior     of a few institutions
levels) involved in   managing public
corruption.        funds.
24



ANNEX C - LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
UNITY - WORK - PROGRESS
May 4, 2001
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CONGO
FOR 2001-2002
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.   In recent years, the social and political scene has been marked by successive armed
conflicts which have resulted in heavy losses of human life, caused over one third of the
Congolese population to flee their usual place of residence, undermined basic infrastructures and
destroyed much of the means of production. At the end of the 1997 conflict, reconstruction
needs had been estimated at 500 billion CFA francs. When these estimates are updated to take
into account the 1998 and 1999 clashes, the total could reach 1,600 billion CFA francs, which is
well above 1999 GDP. These clashes had very dramatic effects on the economic and social
fabric. As far as the economy is concerned, non-oil GDP declined by 19 percent over the period
1997-98 and consumer prices fluctuated considerably because markets were inadequately
supplied and transport and communications infrastructures had been damaged.
2.    The social situation is characterized over this period by considerably insecurity because
of population movement and weak economic activity due to the destruction of labor tools and the
resulting unemployment, which is estimated to affect over 50 percent of the active population
and particularly young people. In addition, the presence of a large number of refugees from the
Democratic Republic of the Congo created additional tension resulting from overpopulation.
Although the Government mobilized considerable resources to deal with the urgent needs created
by the various conflicts, much more is still needed for the reconstruction of basic infrastructures,
improvement of living conditions and resettlement and reintegration of displaced populations and
demobilized young people.
3.    The agreements on a cease-fire in the Republic of the Congo signed on 16 November and
20 December 1999 laid the foundations for a return to peace. To date, significant progress has
been made in implementing the Government's program of disarmament, demobilization and
rehabilitation, which includes the collection of arms and ammunition and the reintegration into
society of former militiamen. Thus, after so many painful and regrettable episodes, the Congo is
25



back on the road to peace - a peace consolidated by the smooth organization of an all-inclusive
national dialogue from 17 March to 14 April 2001.
4.    These meetings enabled almost 1,500 delegates from all backgrounds and shades of
opinion to talk, exchange views and achieve consensus on the essential issues underlying a calm
and peaceful course for the nation. As a result, the route is now mapped out for a return to
normal and democratic life, in which the general elections to be held very shortly are the focal
point and the rendez-vous desired by Congolese men and women and - why not? - by all friends
of the Congo. In 1999, in order to create the social conditions to allow large-scale popular
participation in this political normalization process, the Government had already drawn up an
Interim Post-Conflict Program (PIPC) for the period 2000-02, which was adopted by the National
Transition Council. The main goals of this program are: (a) reconstitution and strengthening of
institutional and administrative capacities, by laying the foundations for good governance and
application of rules of transparency; and (b) improvement of the macroeconomic framework and
of the social climate to stimulate the economy's supply capacity and promote economic growth.
5.   In order to achieve these goals, the government intends : (a) to restore the principal
macroeconomic balances; (b) to implement structural reforms, including reform of the civil
service and privatization of commercial banks and of the largest public enterprises; (c) to
rehabilitate basic infrastructures; (d) to combat poverty through creation of jobs (particularly for
young people) and to strengthen investment capacities in the social sectors (health and
education); (e) to revive agricultural activities and improve food security; (f) to promote
economic diversification and subregional integration;  and (g) to create a regulatory and
institutional framework conducive to business expansion. The formulation of these goals and
these ambitions reflects political and social choices including: (a) political pluralism, democracy
and freedom  of expression;  (b) disengagement of the State from  productive sectors;
(c) entrepreneurial freedom and free competition.
6.    The Congolese Government is committed to the pursuit of a development policy backed
by a Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit (Post-Conflict ERC). In order to launch this
policy, it intends to seek the support of the international community and particularly of the World
Bank.
2.    RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS
2.1 - RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
7.   In recent years, the Congolese economy has been characterized by an erratic pattern
reflecting the various social and economic upheavals experienced by the country over this period.
8.    For more than two decades, the Congolese economy's growth has been attributable
almost exclusively to the performance of the oil sector. However, this heavy dependence of the
economy on oil is very risky, particularly because this is a non-renewable resource and the oil
market is difficult to control. In addition, account must be taken of the poor governance and
social and political upheavals experienced by the country.
26



9.    When civil war broke out in mid-1997, the Congolese economy had already been
weakened by years of mediocre economic management and poor governance and by an earlier
conflict in 1993-94. In 1996, for example, real GDP was only 1.5 percent above the 1992 level
and, at the end of the year, the stock of external debt arrears amounted to almost 50 percent of
GDP.
10.   Between 1997 and 1999, the deterioration in GDP in real terms went from -2.4 percent to
-3.2 percent. As a result, the management of public finances was seriously disrupted: official
budgetary procedures were not strictly observed and expenditure on security and humanitarian
assistance acquired top priority. In the absence of adequate domestic and external financing, the
budget deficit was financed mainly by accumulation of arrears, which resulted in deterioration in
the balance of payments and exhaustion of the country's foreign currency reserves. As a
consequence, external debt arrears increased, amounting to 94 percent of GDP by the end of
1999.
11.   For the financial year 2000, the real growth rate increased significantly, reaching
7.9 percent. This good performance was achieved mainly thanks to the solidity of the oil sector
(increase in oil prices, strong dollar).
12.   Mainly because of supply disruptions, inflation measured by the consumer price index
fluctuated widely between 1996 and 1999, reaching 16.4 percent at the end of 1997 and then
falling to 4.1 percent at the end of 1999.
13.   The domestic market situation continued to stabilize in 2000, reducing inflation to
2.7 percent.
14.  In the budgetary area, official procedures were not properly followed in the period 1996-
99. Expenditure was redirected to meet security needs and the urgent demand for food aid for
persons affected by the conflict.
15.   Budget revenue represented 28 percent of GDP in 1996, compared with 27 percent in
1999. At the same time, current expenditure excluding interest increased from 13.0 percent of
GDP in 1996 to 27.0 percent in 1999, thus reducing the primary balance surplus from 10 percent
of GDP in 1996 to only 5 percent   of GDP in 1999.
16.  In 2000, revenue accounted for 27 percent of GDP while expenditure accounted for
26 percent. This can be attributed to the good performance of the oil sector.
17.   The financial situation of the three commercial banks, which was already alarming before
the outbreak of the 1997 conflict, has seriously deteriorated. The national payments system has
ceased to function, which has accelerated the collapse of activity and complicated the
management of public finances. To date, only the Union Congolaise des Banques has been
repurchased by COFIPA, while the two others are the subject of negotiations between the
Government and potential partners.
27



18.   The Government anticipates that the negotiations will be completed by 30 September
2001.
19.   With regard to the monetary situation, net State credit (as a percentage of money supply
in the broad sense) decreased from 17.2 percent in 1997 to - 19.5 percent in 2000. This was
mainly due to the forced accumulation of State deposits as banks suffered from increasing
illiquidity and were unable to honor checks drawn on them. These difficulties prevented the
economy as a whole from benefiting from sizable bank lending for reconstruction and economic
recovery (7.3 percent in 1997 and 9.2 percent in 2000).
20.   Over the same period, money supply in the broad sense remained stable (9.5 percent in
1997 and 9.2 percent in 2000).
21.   The capital account remained in deficit between 1997 and 1999 because new financing
dried up. At the same time, payments under the public debt amounted to 20 percent of GDP and
28 percent of non-factor goods and services.
22.   Direct investments and other private inflows remained in surplus, because of the
development of oil sector activities. The global balance-of-payments deficit was largely financed
by accumulation of new external arrears.
2.2 - MEDIUM-TERM PROSPECTS
23.  In the next few years, the oil sector will remain the biggest contributor to budget revenue.
According to updated projections, oil output will be 12.9 million tons in 2001 and will continue
to decline to 11.8 million tons in 2003, before increasing to 14.4 million tons in 2004. The new
deeper offshore oil wells will not offset the declining output of those already in operation.
24.   Accordingly, in order to diversify the economy, the Government must envisage an
increase in the contribution of the non-oil sector to GNP and job creation, which is a means of
promoting social cohesion and an effective weapon in the fight against poverty.
25.  Improvement of the country's political and security situation will lead to economic
recovery in general and particularly in the sectors of agriculture, forestry, trade, transport and
public works. The goal will be to increase the share of the non-oil sector in overall GDP.
26.   As far as the social sectors are concerned, the Government is committed to restoring
services, particularly in the areas of health, primary health care, education, environmental
sanitation, the judiciary and highway maintenance. It will enlist the participation of the private
sector in poverty relief by formulating a pilot program to channel external aid (UNDP, EU, ...)
towards NGOs and other grassroots organizations.
27.   The strategy will concentrate on:
- poverty relief as a catalyst for growth;
- involvement of the people, particularly women and young people, in poverty relief.
28



28.  Implementation of this strategy will require mobilization of considerable financing for
sound investment projects focusing on rehabilitation and development of basic social
infrastructures, education and health.
29.   Public and private investment will increase in response to structural reforms,
improvement in the business climate, increased activity and efforts to promote good governance
and transparency in the management of public affairs. The growth in non-oil real GDP will be
7.0 percent in 2000 and 6.8 percent by 2005.
30.   The current account deficit will decrease from 17.7 percent of GDP in 1999 to 6.6 percent
in the period 2000-02. Despite the possibility of a continuous adjustment after the end of the
program and a probable rescheduling with Paris Club creditors under Naples terms, large
financial shortfalls will continue throughout the period 2002-05, demonstrating the need for
continuing aid.
3.    GOALS AND STRATEGY OF THE GOVERNMENT'S
POST-CONFLICT ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT
31.   The National Forum for Unity, Reconciliation and National Reconstruction, meeting in
January 1998, had decreed a return to democratic life and, for that purpose, proclaimed a flexible
three-year transition period.
32.   A National Transition Council, with 75 members, was established by the Forum and acts
as the legislature.
33.   A constitutional commission was set up to draft the new Constitution. At the conclusion
of the all-inclusive National Dialogue, a preliminary draft of the Constitution was adopted by all
Congolese men and women at home and abroad.
34.   The Congolese authorities thus resolutely embarked on the road to peace and national
reconciliation and committed themselves to restoring the democratic process and preparing free,
transparent and fair elections as soon as possible.
35.   The Government conducted an administrative census to count the electorate and establish
electoral rolls. The terns of reference of a democratization program were drawn up to cover the
electoral process and the exercise of human rights. The Government has requested the help of
experts from the European Union and the possible participation of other donors.
36.   As a result of the Government's efforts to achieve its goal of creating all the prerequisites
for political and social stability in order to minimize the "country risk" and its commitment to
peace and national reconciliation, the Congo was classified in phase 2 of the United Nations
security classification and cease-fire agreements were concluded with militiamen active in the
southern regions of the country on 16 November and 29 December 1999 in Pointe-Noire and
Brazzaville respectively.
29



37.  In this country in the throes of administrative upheavals, one of the Government's major
goals is to stabilize the political situation while consolidating democratic power, despite the
successive crises.
38.  In view of economic globalization and the intensification of international competition, the
Government has formulated a program to enhance competitiveness, with the following main
elements:
- promotion of domestic and foreign competition;
- gradual elimination of quantitative restrictions and non-tariff barriers;
- full implementation of the Regional Reform Program, particularly as regards
intra-Community trade;
- rationalization of national taxes and import duties without obstructing business
expansion;
- rationalization of investment incentives and facilitation of business start-ups;
- application of OHADA rules.
39. Over 68 percent of the Congo's foreign trade is with the European Union and over
28 percent is with African countries, including 6 percent with CEMAC countries. The
Congolese economy is thus highly vulnerable to external shocks. With a population of
2.8 million, the Congo is still a small market. A strategy must therefore be devised for the
development of subregional trade, in view of the geographical location of the Congo, which is
destined to be a transit country.
40.   Accordingly, within the framework of sub-regional integration, the Government intends
to take advantage of its membership in sub-regional economic groupings, particularly CEMAC
and CEEAC.
41.   As an integrated and multidimensional economic and monetary community, CEMAC is
the right institutional framework for harmonious and interlinked development of member States
via coordination of macroeconomic policies, stability of the common currency and creation of
sectoral policies.
42.  In order to accelerate the process of subregional integration, efforts are being made by
CEMAC Heads of State, who are determined to facilitate the circulation of persons and goods.
43.   This improvement is being sought as part of a global process respecting the interests of
each country.
44.   The reforms under way, combined with transport infrastructure improvements, are
designed to stimulate intra-Community trade, which should generate jobs and additional revenue
for State budgets in the form of fiscal revenue.
45.   With a view to restoring a modernized public administration, the Government has set
itself the following goals:
30



- provision of an urgent operational response to problems of economic and financial
management;
- development of strategic programming capacities, starting with a few priority sectors;
- initiation of administrative reform, including decentralization, in public government
services, as the first stage in a global process of modernization of public administrations.
46.   The Government will concentrate on management of public finances, direction of the
economy, strategic management and horizontal and vertical management of all resources.
Accordingly, it plans to implement a institutional support project to strengthen the management
capacity of the State's administrative structures responsible for the macroeconomic framework in
the Congo.
47.   This project is designed to:
- identify the various departments concerned, as well as the selected components in these
departments;
- evaluate available human resources;
- ensure that these human resources are adequate for the management of the selected
components;
- evaluate equipment and materials requirements for the execution of the various tasks.
The Government is requesting financing for this project from external partners.
48.   Under its program for 2000-01 from the post-conflict emergency aid facility for which it
received support from the International Monetary Fund, the Government has identified the
following priority tasks: meeting emergency humanitarian and peace-building assistance needs;
restarting of certain basic infrastructures; restoration of macroeconomic balances; rehabilitation
of institutions essential to the operation of the economy, such as the banks and the civil service;
continuing the liberalization process in order to achieve economic efficiency.
49.  In addition, the program  of reforms envisaged under the Post-Conflict Economic
Rehabilitation Credit (Post-Conflict ERC) would lay the foundations for a return to sizable,
regular and sustained growth, in view of the fragility of the economy (inadequate economic
growth rates) and of society (greater poverty, excessive under-employment) following the many
conflicts which took place over the last decade. The action program would therefore concentrate
on the following main areas: (a) continuation and strengthening of the structural measures
needed to improve the macroeconomic framework and create an environment conducive to the
expansion of the private sector; (b) strengthening of good governance and improvement of
transparency in the management of public resources; (c) strengthening of the economy's
competitiveness, particularly through sustained export growth;  (d) poverty reduction;
(e) subregional integration; (f) strengthening of administrative and institutional capacities and of
the rule of law; (g) rehabilitation and development of social sectors; (h) diversification and
development of non-oil sectors.
31



4.    ACTIONS PRIOR TO LOAN DISBURSEMENT
50.   The Government is committed to reducing the stock of debt arrears owed to IBRD/IDA to
a maximum not exceeding 30 million dollars, as decided in the agreement with the World Bank
on the clearance of accumulated arrears, which on 5 March 2001 amounted to about 50 million
dollars. To this end, the Government has already mobilized about 28 million dollars to honor the
commitments made to the World Bank.
51.   Following payment of the above-mentioned amount, the World Bank will therefore make
a loan to the Congolese Government of about 35 million dollars to reimburse the commercial
bank which will help to arrange the bridge-financing loan. Combined with the structural
measures set out in the annex, clearance of the Congo's stock of arrears owed to the World Bank
would make it possible for the Bank to resume provision of financing to the Congo starting on
July, 2nd 2001, thanks to the World Bank's provision of the Post-Conflict Economic
Rehabilitation Credit (Post-Conflict ERC).
52.  In view of the heavy debt-servicing burden and pending a global and far-reaching solution
to the critical problem of indebtedness (Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative), the
Government wishes to obtain World Bank assistance to relieve the burden of IBRD debt
servicing.
5.    LOAN DISBURSEMENT PREPARATIONS
53.   With the prospect of resumption of Bank financing, and on the occasion of a World Bank
mission to Brazzaville, the Government has committed itself to settling the five special accounts
currently being repaid to IDA.
54.   The Government has undertaken to make these repayments as soon as possible so as not
to delay disbursement of the first tranche of the Post-Conflict ERC.
55.   The first tranche, equivalent to 30 million dollars, will be paid directly to the commercial
bank which will provide the bridge-financing loan and 5 million dollars in the form of budgetary
assistance, in the credit denomination. The corresponding payment instructions will be issued
upon request for the withdrawal of funds. This request will be accompanied by a letter from the
commercial bank giving the bank references and by a letter from the Minister of Finance
designating authorized signatories.
56.  In order to ensure timely transfer of funds, these documents should reach IDA a few days
before presentation of the Post-Conflict ERC to the Board of Governors of the World Bank. The
IDA disbursement will be honored upon entry into force of the Credit (Post-Conflict ERC).
57.   Accordingly, the Government undertakes to create the prerequisites for disbursement of
this and other loans.
58.  It will also define and create a structure to follow up and coordinate the Post-Conflict
ERC and the administrative capacity-building credit.
32



59.   This structure will be responsible for follow-up and reporting not only to the Govermnent
but, above all, to the World Bank on the use of the credit.
60.   The specific actions and measures relating to each area of reform are summarized in the
annex.
6.    STRUCTURAL REFORMS AND INSTITUTION-BUILDING
61.  In addition to restructuring the banks, the Government proposes to resume and step up the
structural reforms which were interrupted by the renewed outbreak of war in 1998 and 1999. To
this end, the government will finalize the restructuring and privatization of the commercial banks
(CAIC, UCB, BIDC) as soon as possible so as to reduce costs and restore the confidence of
private economic operators, without which it is difficult to imagine harmonious development of
the business climate. So far, only UCB has been privatized, while negotiations are under way
with partners for CAIC and BIDC. The new target date is 30 September 2001.
62.   At the same time, the Government intends also to pursue privatization of the following
other public enterprises: SNDE, SNE, ONPT, ATC. It should be noted that the protocol of
agreement between the Government and the HYDRO-CONGO partners was signed on
May, 15 2001. In August 2001, the actual transfer of State assets to the private operators will
begin (cf. matrix of actions).
63.  In addition, the Government plans to devote special attention to reform of the civil
service; the results of the civil service survey should be published shortly.
64.   After extensive national consultations, the Government has decided to institute a wide-
ranging reform to create a modem public service managed according to rules that will make it
more efficient.
65.   An important element of this reform will be lay-offs designed to reduce staffing levels to
those necessary for the optimal performance of the tasks of government.
66.  In particular, the reform will introduce a merit-based system of remuneration and
promotion.
67.   The Government has also concluded preparations for the introduction of a suitable
regulatory framework for the principal sectors which will henceforth be open to competition.
The water, electricity and telecommunications codes will shortly be submitted to the transition
Parliament. The forestry code was already adopted by Parliament in November 2000.
68.   The Government remains determined to continue its efforts to create an efficient and
competitive market economy. In this connection, its strategy, particularly over the next few
years, will be to enhance dialogue with the private sector, to promote competition in the
performance of economic activities, to improve the functioning of the judiciary, particularly in
33



the resolution of conflicts concerning business law, and to eliminate existing bottlenecks and
obstacles.
69.   Recognizing the importance of promoting the private sector in order to benefit from the
opportunities created by the privatization of public sector enterprises, the Government is resolved
to remove all administrative and regulatory obstacles to start-ups and investment.
70.   The national investment charter is awaiting adoption by the Government; a survey will be
conducted shortly with a view to revising the labor code.
71.   The Government intends to encourage private investment by important changes relating
to taxation and employment, with the goal of making the tax system a modern instrument of
development and entrepreneurship.
7.    TRANSPARENCY AND GOOD GOVERNANCE
73.   The Government is convinced that good governance and greater transparency promote
democracy and improve the economic situation. It therefore plans to focus on:
- the need for legislation to be clear and known to all concerned;
- a strong and credible judiciary;
- speed and transparency in the decision-making process;
- the possibility of punishing all reprehensible actions.
74.   The Government intends to conduct major structural reforms involving far-reaching
institutional changes, in order to promote economic and social management that is effective and
conducive to development. With this aim, it plans to reform the bidding and public contracting
system.
75.   These efforts towards transparency will also involve:
- formalization of the relationship between SNCP and the State;
- organization of the first audits of SNPC and introduction of a system of regular
audits of this company.
76.   The Government also proposes to extend this exercise to the forestry sector and to other
public enterprises.
77.   For this purpose, the auditors-general ("Cour des Comptes") have just been appointed by
presidential decree of 26 May 2001 and will be installed before the end of 2001.
78.   With the support of the World Bank, the Government intends to adopt machinery and
rules to promote meticulous, efficient and transparent management of public resources,
particularly oil, forest and other resources.
34



ANNEX D - SOCIAL INDICATORS
Congo: Selected Poverty and Living Standard Indicators
Congo      Sub-Saharan Africa
(in percent, unless otherwise specified)  Latest single year (1997-1999)
Population in millions (1999)                    2.85             642
Population growth (1999)                         2.8              2.4
Fertility rate (1998)                            6.0               5.4
GNP Per Capita in US$ (1999) (Atlas method)      670              500
GNP in US$ billions (1999) (Atlas method)         1.9             321
Poverty rate                                     ...               ...
Extreme poverty rate (1995)                       70               ...
Child malnutrition (1999)                         16               32
Infant mortality rate (per thousand, 1999)        81              106
Infant immunization against measles              58.4              48
Life Expectancy at birth (years, 1998)           48.6             50.4
HIV/AIDS (between 15-49 age) (1997)              7.8               8
Public Health Expenditure (% of GDP) (1999)       1.2             2.4
Physicians (per 1,000 people)                    28.6              32
Urban population (1999)                          73.4              34
Access to sanitation (1999)                       65               35
Access to safe water (1997)                       46               43
Telephone lines (per 1000 people)                4.0               14
Literacy rate (1999)                             59.5              61
Public Education Expenditure (% of GDP) (1999)   3.0               6.1
Gross primary school enrollment (1998            78.6              78
Male                                             81.9              85
Female                                           75.5              71
Sources: World Development Indicators (World Bank) and UNDP.
35



ANNEX E - REPUBLIC OF CONGO AT A GLANCE
5/23/01
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     Congo,   Saharan        Low-      I     -              ___
2000                                                     Rep.      Africa   income        Development diamond'
Population, mid-year (miilions)                            2.9       843       2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                        630        490        420
GNP (Alias method, USS bittions)                           1          316      1,008                         T
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Populabon (X)                                              2,8        2.6        1.9
Labor force (IX)                                           2.6        2.6        2.4      GNP                                Gross
per                               primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                     capita                         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)      70
Urban population (% of totl population)                     73         34        31
Life expectancy at birh  (years)                            49         47        59
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                   81          92        77
Child malnutrition  (% of children under 5)                 16                                 Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source  (X of population)       46         55         76
liblracy (X of population age 15+)                        40          39        39
Gross primary enrollment  (% of school-age population)      79         78        96              -     Republe of Congo
Mate                                                     82          85       102                    Low-incomegroup
Female                                                   78          71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999       2000        ____
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                               1.7       2.8        2.2        2.8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                   35.8      15.9       27.6       17.3                       Trade
Exports of gaods and services/GOP               60.0      53.7       72.4       83.2
Gross domesbc savings/GDP                       35.7      23.8       46.1       60.7
Gross natonal savings/GDP                       26.2       6.9       13.0       18.3
Current account balance/GDP                      -9.8     -9.3      -27.0      -120        Omestic                       Investment
Interest payments/GDP                            2.2       4.3       22.0       14.5
Total debt/GDP                                  89.5    138.9       231.6      200.0
Total debt service/exports                      10.6      35.3       23.4       21.0
Present value ot debVGDP
Present value of debt/exports
Indebtedness
1980.90   1990-00     1999       2000   2000-.4
(average annual growth)
GOP                                    3.3      -0.4      -3.2        7.6        4.1                    Republic of Congo
GNP per capita                        -0.1      -3.4      -6.1        4.8        1.0              ----Low-income group
Exports o1 goods and services          5.1       5.6       0.7        4.0        0.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999       2000      ! Growth o investmnt andGDP(%
(% of GDP)                                                                                                  nt a
Agriculture                                     11.7      129         84         54
Industry                                        46.6      40.6       61.3       71.9     10A
Manufacturing                                   7.5       6.3        5.5       3.5      tin
Services                                        41.7      46.5       30.4       22.7             o_                 -
Private consumption                             46.8      62.4       36.9       28.1     -60     f      96   97   9a   99   oo
General government consumption                  17.6      13.8       17.0       11.3                -G 0 W           oDP
Imports of goods and services                   60.1      45.8       53.9       39.9
1980-90   1990-00      1999       2000      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                      3.4       1.3       -6.5        8.4     a01
Industry                                         5.2       2.6        1.3        4.4     60
Manufacturing                                   6.8     -2.8        -5.5      20.9      40 tI         X
Services                                         2.1      -5.5       -9.4       12.6     201
Private onsumption                               3.3      -1.5      -11.1       20.1      0            9      7      ffo
General government consumptbn                    2.5      -6.6      -13.2        2.8    -20                   9                 0
Gross domestic investment                      -12.6      17.9      -19.0      -101      -40
Imports of goods and services                   -4.4       9.5      -16.0        3.0                -  Export      -0  Import
Gross national product                           3.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estmates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete. Latest year for improved water source data is 2000.
36



Republic of Congo
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000    [Iraiion (%)
Domestic prices
(X change)                                                                        .
Consumer prices                             7.3    -4.8        3.1      0.3     40 
Implicit GDP deflator                      20.1    -0.9       30.2     44.6    20
Government finance                                                                     9    90     90]
(% of GOP, Includes current grants)                                            .20
Current revenue                              ..   27A         26.9     27.0    40
Current budget balance                        .     -2.4       0.3      8.2            -     GOP dellsator    e  CPI
Overall surplus/detict                        ..   -6.6       -5.9      1.1
TRADE
1980    1990      1999     2000       E         ri
(USS mwillions)
Total exports (fob)                          ..   1,363      1,563    2,559    3041
Fuel                                             1,050     1,434    2,403     Z534
Timber                                             161       147      158         I
Manufactures                                        35        ..        .    2,027 
Total imports (cif)                                 580       955       966    1,201
Food                                                30        21       23    1,014 _         I*h I
Fuel and energy                                    129       221      229      507
Capital goods                                      237       412      353       0o___
Export price index(1995=100)                  *-    113        97       152           9                       95
Import price index (19956100)                 ..     96        90        92    I*Eoorts                   * Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                     ..    118        108       166
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ WIllions)                             1980    1990      1999      2000     Current account balance to GDP P%)
Exports of goods and services             1,021    1,502     1,668    2,636 8     t
Imports of goods and services             1,025    1,282     1,480    1,636 8    5
Resource balance                             4      220       188    1,000      10-l
Netincome                                  -162    -475      -771   -1,327                         *
Netcurrenttransfers                          -1  -7             5         4                  I 'll'
Current account balance                    -167    -261       -592     -348     301
Financing Hems (net)                        226     261       551       168Ise  4
Changes in net reserves                     -59       0        41       178    .451
Mwmo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)       93      10        45       223
Conversion rate (DEC, localtVS$)          211.3   272.3    614.9    709.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000       .     _     ___           _____
(USS nillions)                                                                  Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mlil.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      1,526    3,889     5,460    5,243
IBRD                                       39     164        e6        63
IDA                                        22      75       166       158               F: 55  S 6 15 92
Total debt service                          109     531       391       460                  ,, 01h, D 375
IBRD                                        8      18         6         3
IDA                                         0       1         2         8
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants
Official crediors                          88      55      -136      -146
PriSate credors                           400    -267      -179       183
Foreign direct investment
Portfolio equity                           ..       ..        ..       ..                    E: 4,000
World Bank prograrn
Commitments                                35       16        0         0     A-9IRD                     E- BllatFml
DIsbursenents                               3       2         0         0     B-IDA    D - Otermulllatr   F- Prton
Principal repayments                        4       6        15        15     C-IMF                      G-Short-tem
Nt flows                                   -1      -5       -15       -15
lnterest payrnents                          4      13         5         4
Net transfers                              -5     -17       -20       -19
Development Economics                                                                                          5Y23/01
37



ANNEX F - KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Actual               Estimate             Proiected
Indicator                1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
National accounts (as % of GDP)
Gross domestic product                    100      100     100      100     1OO      100     100      100     100
Agriculture                                9       9       11       8       5        6       6        6       5
Industry                                 51       57      46       61      72       67      63       58      55
Services                                 40       34      43       30      23       27      31       36      40
Total Consumption                          61       61      75      54       39      47       65      70       74
Gross domestic fixed investment            26       28      35      26       16       18      17       17      16
Government investment                      5       4       2        3       4        5       5        5        5
Private investment                       21       24      33       23       12      13       12      12       11
Exports (GNFS)h                            64       72      65      72       83      79       75      66       60
Imports (GNFS)                             51       61      78       54      40      46       58      53       50
Gross domestic savings                     39       39      25       46      61       53      35      30       26
Gross national savings'                     4        6       4       13      18        9       9       12      11
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product                   2541    2323    1950    2357    3176    2931    3149    2856    2966
(US$ million at current prices)
GNP per capita (US$, Atlas method)           .       ..    690     670      630
Real annual growth rates (%, calculated from 1978 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -4.3    -2.4     3.7    -3.2      7.6     3.1      2.7     4.5      6.5
Gross Domestic Income                   41.8    -1.8   -18.2    20.0       9.0     4.0      5.3     6.1      6.0
Real annual per capita growth rates (%, calculated from 1978 prices)
Gross domestic product at market prices  -6.8    -5.2     1.1    -6.0      4.5     0.1    -0.3      1.5      3.4
Total consumption                      -12.1    -5.9    -4.8   -14.1    13.6       3.7      4.8     3.8      6.6
Private consumption                     20.9   -42.0      9.5   -13.7    16.6      4.4      5.6     4.4      7.1
Balance of Payments (USS millions)
Exports (GNFS)h                         1622    1670    1257    1668    2636    2498    2373    2241    2210
Merchandise FOB                       1564    1587    1150    1562    2559    2390    2214    2062    2023
Imports(GNFS)b                         1308    1377    1613    1480    1636    1629    1811    1801    1841
Merchandise FOB                        586     649      559     699      767     822      903     882      907
Resource balance                         314     293    -356       188    1000     869      562     441      369
Net current transfers                    -16       -2       9        5       4      -18     -19      -20     -19
Current account balance                 -593    -475    -755    -592    -346    -421    -280    -175    -205
Net private foreign direct investment    587      145     299       85     101      140     146       87     136
Long-term loans (net)                      ..      ..       .        ..      .                 .       .
Official                               -285    -224    -162    -136    -146    -138    -139    -150    -157
Private                                   ..       ..      ..               .       ..
Other capital (nct, incl. crors & ommissions)  ,    ..     ..       ..      ..       ..
Change in reserves'                      -17      20       69      -60    -169    -165    -102    -170       -33
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% ofGDP)                12.4    12.6   -18.2      8.0    31.5    29.6    17.9    15.4    12.4
Real annual growth rates ( YR78 prices)
Merchandise exports (FOB)                19.3     7.9     6.7    -1.6      5.4      2.3     4.2    -5.4    -0.9
Primary                                 14.8    13.9    15.5      5.3    -3.3   -10.4    12.8    -0.5    -9.6
Manufactures                            0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Merchandise imports (CIF)              119.1   -30.3    -8.7       6.1    -0.6    -2.3      5.8      1.3     0.4
(Continued)
38



Republic of Congo - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator                1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Public finance (as % of GDP at market prices)'
Current revenues                        27.9    28.6    22.9    26.9    27.0    29.9    28.1    26.4    25.0
Current expenditures                    24.8    34.3    38.1    26.7    18.9    16.4    15.4    15.5    15.2
Current account surplus (+) or deficit (-)  3.0    -5.7   -15.2    0.3     8.2    13.5    12.7    10.8       9.8
Capital expenditure                       8.0     3.4     4.7      6.1     7.1      9.4    10.2      8.9     8.4
Foreign financing                       75.4    11.0   -13.3   -12.2   -10.7    -8.0    41.0    -5.2    -2.9
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP                                   14.2    14.2    14.6    13.9      9.7    12.1    11.8    11.2    11.3
Growth of M2 (%/6)                       15.7     4.5   -12.8    19.9      9.2    12.0      9.0      8.5     9.3
Private sector credit growth 1           83.7    28.9    66.1   -45.6    45.6    52.9    94.7   139.2    53.7
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( YR78 =100)
Merchandise export price index          132.0   124.1    84.4   116.4   182.8   165.3   147.0   144.6   143.2
Merchandiseimportpriceindex             125.4   114.7   111.7   113.7   115.7   118.0   120.3   122.7   124.9
Merchandise terms oftrade index         105.2   108.2    75.5   102.4   157.9   140.1   122.2   117.8   114.6
Real exchange rate (US$ILCU)'           73.5    75.9    78.1    79.0    79.2    79.5    79.7    79.9    80.1
Real interest rates
Consumer price index (% change)          10.2    13.2      1.8     3.1     0.3      2.0     2.0      2.0     2.0
GDP deflator (% change)                 20.2      6.9   -18.2    30.2    44.6   -12.4       4.2      3.3     1.9
a. GDP at market prices
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Consolidated central government.
t "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in US$/LCU denotes appreciation.
39



ANNEX G - STATUS OF BANK GROuP OPERATIONS IN CONGO
Since 1997, the Republic of Congo has been in non-accrual status. As a result, all project
disbursements came to a halt in 1997. The last remaining project in the portfolio, the
Privatization and Capacity Building Project, approved by the Board in 1995, was closed at the
end of 1999. An IDF Post Conflict emergency grant, amounting to US$0.9 million, to finance
technical assistance in support of the reconstruction and on-going economic reforms efforts was
approved in June 1998, but could not be implemented as a new cycle of violence resurged in
December 1998. With return to security normalcy, and the signing at the end of 1999 of peace
accord and cessation of hostilities which are holding very firmly, another IDF Post Conflict
emergency grant, amounting to US$1 million was approved in February 2001.
Republic of Congo
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As Of Date 04124/2001
Closed Projects      21
IBRDIIDA *
Total Disbursed (Active)    0.00
of which has been    0.00
repaid
Total Disbursed (Closed)   375.00
of which has been    202.10
repaid
Total Disbursed (Active +   374.99
Closed)
of which has been    202.07
repaid
40



CONGO
PRIMARY PAVED ROADS                   +     INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                                   LCONGO
PRIMARY GRAVEL AND EARTH ROADS              OTHER AIRPORTS                       ,                                     REP, OF
SECONDARY ROADS                       JJ.   PORTS
------   TRACKS                                  -    RIVERS
RAILROADS                                   MARSH
     REGION CAPITALS                             REGION BOUNDARIES                      Ati-ti,
0    OTHER SELECTED TOWNS                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                Ocean
ANGOLA        t
12'                               14                                  16< '                     \         IS
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
,S        ' \.'e-.-- K                                            N 
C A M0E R O O N'\                                                                  )-           :') 
2                N~~~~~~~~~~~~2
27;_N >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- '  r.-    -,A- /\< _Z
-  --(>c&?{0o LU                                           -                                                         cBUc
D   G  A  G  O  N                                <-_-                                 '           %-   /         '  -~~~~~~~~~SA    G- 
V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
G   A   B   0    N~~~~~~~a                K                             BIIIE B-cEEocI0 
SAMA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
D         c L UV2TE-
. Ak-i                                          -
6~~~ ~~                                           -     iT >_   6kj 
.~ ~~~~K {~- .J . -0o1s\y      .   
/ Tl 7      DEMOCRATIC
2 ' \-~ QN\.. _                         _             !, REPUBLIC OF    2
CONGO
NIARI             ILEK /UMEU                                                                                         <
\C uR/C_E ,$. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rg > X S      L   v                                         a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'-'
aj _~s>  R  <0Ot\   jTsa                                                                    KILOMETE75
TO    p 2    ,, -m tdmnhmmF, f TdaWpmAe 8.4 Ga-,e
ATLANTiC                                                                                       am la ample an ply ,a-y-d.,epa-alThalPm k Damp amy
_ .: -- . - E ABIDA                                  ........ ,JC0                          aeeepraneaaleeEechbudamea
OCEAN  .AN OLA)
q   -   -  z21 2 | > z2                                                         /             l                                 IS-



