                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 30738

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-35600)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$37.7 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                                 FOR A

                      POST-CONFLICT ECONOMIC REHABILITATION CREDIT




                                              June 21, 2005




Africa Region
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit (AFTP3)

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 21, 2005)

                            Currency Unit = CFA Francs
                       538.9 CFA Francs = US$ 1

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                  Jan 1    Dec 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB                              African Development Bank
AFD                               Agence Francaise de Developpement
AIDS                              Acquired Immuno Deficiency Syndrome
CEMAC                             Central African Economic and Monetary Community
CFCO                              Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean
COBAC                             Central African Banking Commission
DRC                               Democratic Republic of Congo
ERC                               Economic Recovery Credit
EU                                European Union
FAO                               Food and Agriculture Organization
GDP                               Gross Domestic Product
HIPC                              Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HIV                               Human Immune Deficiency Virus
IBRD                              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                               Implementation Completion Report
IDA                               International Development Association
IMF                               International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP                            Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
MTIPCP                            Medium Term Interim Post-Conflict Program
NGO                               Non Governmental Organization
PCERC                             Post Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit
PRGF                              Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
SNPC                              Société Nationale des Pétroles Congolais
SOTELCO                           Société des Télécommunications du Congo
TGCBP                             Transparency Governance and Capacity Building Project
TSS                               Transitional Support Strategy
UNCTAD                            United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP                              United Nations Development program
UNICEF                            United Nations Children's Fund



                           Vice President:      G. Nankani
                        Country Director        P. Alba
                         Sector Manager         C. Atta Mills
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        S. Khenissi and S. Samen

                                 CONGO, REPUBLIC OF
                        Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              11
10. Additional Information                                                       23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             26
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             27
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             30
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                31
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            32

Project ID: P073316                                                  Project Name: Post Conflict - Economic Rehabilitation
                                                                     Credit
Team Leader: Slaheddine Khenissi                                     TL Unit: AFTP3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Post Conflict - Economic Rehabilitation Credit           L/C/TF Number: IDA-35600
   Country/Department: CONGO, REPUBLIC OF                                                  Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (40%); General information and
                            communications sector (20%); General education sector (20%);
                            Central government administration (10%); General public
                            administration sector (10%)
                  Theme: Other economic management (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/23/2001                                     Effective: 08/08/2001                08/08/2001
     Appraisal: 06/01/2001                                         MTR:
      Approval: 07/31/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CONGO/GOVERNMENT OF CONGO
                      Other Partners:      N/A

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Pedro Alba                                     Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:                 Cadman Atta Mills                              Cadman Atta Mills
Team Leader at ICR:             Slaheddine Khenissi                            Salomon Samen
ICR Primary Author:             Abdul Aziz Jalloh


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1. Country Context. The Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit (PCERC) was
appraised and approved as the Congo was emerging from decades of mismanagement under a
centrally planned economy and three episodes of civil war in the 1990s, which led to economic
decline, destruction of the physical and social infrastructure, increased poverty and a near collapse
of public institutions.

3.1.2. The 2000 ceasefire was followed by a national dialogue on a new constitution and peace in
April 2001. At that point, the key challenge became laying the foundations for broad-based and
sustainable economic growth, to consolidate peace and reduce poverty. Already, under the IMF
Post-Conflict Assistance Programs of June 1998 and November 2000, Government was trying to
stabilize the economy and implement sound macroeconomic policies. This was the context of
PCERC.

3.1.3. Macroeconomic developments tended to improve following the resumption of Bank
lending. Annual real GDP growth rate during 2000-2004 rebounded to over 5 percent, over 12
percent for non-oil GDP, due to improved business confidence following the cessation of
hostilities, higher oil prices and substantial public investments to rehabilitate infrastructure.
Inflation remained under control (below 2 percent a year).

3.1.4. But government performance in structural reform and transparency/governance improved
rather slowly, partly due to opposition of anti-reform individuals. Eventually, cumulative
improvements became large enough to justify the conclusion of a PRGF arrangement with the
IMF, the approval by IDA of an Economic Recovery Credit (ERC) and an agreement with Paris
Club creditors on a US$3.02 billion debt forgiveness/debt rescheduling package, all in December
2004.

3.1.5. Significant progress was made on the political front. A new constitution providing for
political pluralism and a system of checks and balances was adopted in January 2002. This was
followed by Presidential and legislative elections, which were certified as mostly free and fair by
international observers. The presidential coalition obtained a comfortable majority in Parliament,
where the opposition is, nevertheless, well represented. Parliament started functioning and a new
cabinet took office in August 2002.

3.1.6 Original Objective. The immediate objective of PCERC was to provide Government
with badly needed foreign exchange after clearance of arrears to the Bank (US$58.3 million to
IBRD and US$4.7 million to IDA, as of May 2001). These arrears had resulted in the suspension
in 1997 of the Congo's withdrawal rights. The Congo settled all its arrears, with its own
resources and a bridge-loan from a third party. The Congo had also cleared its arrears to the IMF.
Clearance of arrears to the Bank and the Fund was a big step towards the normalization of
relations with international creditors

3.1.7 The second objective of PCERC was to help the Congo resume structural reforms
interrupted by civil war. Reforms consist of stabilizing the economy, expanding the role of the



                                                 - 2 -

private sector, improving the legal and regulatory framework and improving business incentives.
The third objective was to improve transparency and governance in the management of oil and
forestry resources and of public funds. Another operation, the Transparency and Governance
Capacity Building Project (TGCBP), was intended to help implement PCERC.

3.1.8 These objectives were consistent with the country's development priorities and the Bank's
strategy for the country, as articulated in the Government's Letter of Development Policy and
Medium-Term Interim Post- Conflict Program (MTIPCP) for 2000-02 and in the Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS, considered by the Board on January 16, 2001), respectively. In
retrospect, the first objective (clearing of arrears and progressing towards normalization of
relations with creditors) and the third objective (improving transparency) were appropriate and
relevant to the country's priorities. However, the second objective, notably its privatization
component, was probably too ambitious in the post-conflict context of the Congo in 2001.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives and design of PCERC remained unchanged during its lifetime.

3.3 Original Components:
PCERC has two main components: a structural reform component and a transparency/
governance one.

Component 1: Structural Reform.
3.3.1. After having privatized all public enterprises in forestry, animal feed and livestock,
petroleum products distribution and one commercial bank (UCB), the Government aimed at
privatizing the three remaining commercial banks, the public utilities and the railways.

3.3.2. Privatization was to be complemented by improvements to the legal and regulatory
framework. Prior to PCERC, a new forestry code had been approved and new codes for water
and electricity drafted, with assistance from the Bank. The remaining activities included: (i) the
preparation of a petroleum code; (ii) the publication of decrees to implement the forestry code;
and (iii) the approval of codes for the water, electricity and post and telecommunications sectors.
In the latter sector, the agenda also included the splitting of posts and telecommunications, the
adoption of a sector policy declaration, and of a regulatory framework.

3.3.3. The component also aimed at improving business climate by publishing the already drafted
investment code and making operational and strengthening the already established one-stop
investment window. It also included the review of the labor code.

3.3.4. Some elements of this component, e.g., the enacting of appropriate regulations that would
help privatized enterprises operate within a predictable environment, were relevant to the
country's circumstances. But the concession of the water and electricity utilities and of the
railways proved to be overly ambitious, given the country's post-conflict status and the envisaged
lifetime of PCERC.

Component 2: Governance and transparency.
3.3.5. This component had two elements: improving transparency in the management of oil and


                                                - 3 -

forestry resources; and improving governance and accountability in the management of public
funds.

3.3.6. On June 29, 2001 an agreement clarifying relations between Government and Societé
Nationale des Pétroles du Congo (SNPC), the national oil company, was signed. Its promotes
transparency in all areas of SNPC operations, notably the publication on a regular basis of revenue
forecast, actual revenue, revenue transferred to the Treasury, all transactions and trade practices,
audits, and financial statements. Under PCERC, the first audit of SNPC was to be conducted and
the first report on SNPC's activities published.

3.3.7. PCERC also aimed at improving transparency in the forestry sector through: assessing all
logging permits; revising existing permits; mapping existing and proposed national protected
areas; assessing revenue from forestry taxation for 2001 and 2002, and proposing new taxation
policy.

3.3.8. Finally, to improve governance and accountability in the management of public funds, the
Cour des Comptes (Auditor General's Office) was to be made operational. The auditing of a few
public funds was to be initiated. And Government procurement was to be made more transparent
and more efficient.

3.3.9. This component was highly relevant to the program's objectives. First, improving
transparency and governance was and still is essential to sustain civil peace in an oil-rich,
multi-ethnic country like the Congo, where earlier conflicts were caused, at least in part, by
perceptions that the rent derived from natural resources, especially oil, was not transparently and
equitably distributed. Second, improving governance in the key oil sector was essential to
normalize relations with creditors and increase the likelihood of debt forgiveness, as creditors
would like to be reassured that all oil revenue is transferred to the Treasury and well used. And
third, better transparency and governance would help increase the efficiency ­and equity- of
Government action in all areas.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1. PCERC was designed as a quick disbursement operation to provide the Congo with badly
needed foreign exchange after settlement of arrears to the Bank (and the IMF). The settlement
would in turn make it possible to again access Bank and IMF resources and pave the way to
normalizing relations with other donors. The single tranche was scheduled to be disbursed upon
effectiveness and the project to be closed in June 2003. Out of eighteen activities under PCERC,
sixteen were to be undertaken by September 2001, one by November 2001, and the last by
December 2001. In fact, some of the most meaningful of these activities (e.g., audit of SNPC,
publication of SNPC reports, review of government procurement, and making the Audit General
office operational) started much later than planned. Thus, in retrospect, it appears that the design
of PCERC was overly ambitious.

3.5.2. Conditions for Board presentation and effectiveness were the privatization of one


                                                - 4 -

commercial bank; significant progress in privatizing public utilities; a start in the process of
privatizing the Congo Ocean railways; the signing of the Government-SNPC agreement and
clearing of arrears to the Bank.

3.5.3. Project implementation was assigned to a high-level steering committee chaired by the
Minister of Finance, with an inter-ministerial technical committee to assist the former on a
day-to-day basis. The technical committee was to be staffed by senior staff from various ministries
and representatives of NGOs and civil society.

3.5.4. Particular attention was given to two key risks, the failure of the peace process, and the
weak administrative capacity. The former was to be mitigated through the Emergency
Demobilization and Reintegration Project and grants from the Post-Conflict Fund, while the latter
was to be mitigated through the TGCBP.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1. The overall efficacy of PCERC is rated satisfactory for the following reasons. The
immediate objective to provide the Congo with badly needed foreign exchange after clearance of
arrears to the Bank and to resume Bank lending was attained. PCERC was followed by seven
IDA credits amounting to US$162 million between July 2001 and December 2004. The Bank also
provided four grants amounting to about US$2.9 million from the Post-Conflict Fund to help
war-affected groups, notably through community actions for the reintegration and recovery of
youth and women; and support of ex-combatants and unemployed youth. Timely repayments to
the IMF also resumed but high arrears remained outstanding to the African Development Bank,
members of the Paris Club, and commercial lenders.

4.1.2. But as mentioned above, progress in macroeconomic management, structural reform and
transparency/governance was rather slow. Due to fiscal slippages and delays in carrying out the
audit of SNPC, it took three consecutive IMF Staff Monitored Programs for cumulative progress
to lead to a PRGF arrangement. In any case, it is unclear how much of the progress can be
attributed to PCERC.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component1: Structural Reform.
4.2.1. Efficacy of this component is rated modest. Its objectives, which in retrospect appear too
ambitious, were only partially met, and gains have been reversed in some cases.

4.2.2. Government privatized its three remaining commercial banks, BIDC, CAIC and COFIPA.
The latter had already taken over UCB. However, the privatized banks remain weak, and in late
December 2004, Government renationalized the weakest of the banks, partially reversing, in
essence, the privatization process. Government still intends to re-privatize the bank after its
restructuring. These developments confirm that privatization is a necessary but not sufficient
condition for efficiency. Strong bank supervision and an efficient judicial system to enable banks
to recover claims are also needed.




                                               - 5 -

4.2.2. Privatization of utilities through concession has been even less successful, for reasons
beyond Government control. A foreign private company won the concession for the water utility,
but relinquished it due to the large investment required to rehabilitate the utility. With IDA
assistance, Government now aims to rehabilitate infrastructure and to hand over only the
management of the utility to a private company.

4.2.3. Efforts to privatize the power utility have also failed, again due to the large investment
needed to rehabilitate it. Potential investors have also been discouraged by the unreliable
electricity supply from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). With IDA assistance,
Government now aims at rehabilitating the utility, improving user fee collection through the
installation of meters and possibly the outsourcing of their collection.

4.2.4. Significant delay has been encountered in privatizing the Congo Ocean Railway (CFCO)
through concession. The high cost of rehabilitating the infrastructure has been one obstacle, which
was only partly addressed by a Bank financing of US$13.57 million under the Infrastructure
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Living Conditions credit. Sporadic interruption of passenger
service between Brazzaville and Pointe Noire was another obstacle. Delay was also caused by the
objection of some bidders to SNCFI, a branch of the French railroad company, providing
technical assistance to CFCO while being part of one of the bidders. The technical assistance
agreement between SNCFI and CFCO has since been terminated. Four companies, two from
South Africa, one from India, and a European Consortium, were pre-qualified to submit technical
bids and two candidates were selected. Government is still negotiating financial arrangements with
one of the candidates.

4.2.5. Progress in liberalizing the telecommunications sector has been satisfactory at first. The
former national posts and telecommunications office has been split into two entities, Societe des
Postes et de L'Epargne du Congo and Societe des Telecommunications du Congo (SOTELCO).
The latter remains the sole operator and manager of the land-based network. Three private
companies (CYRUS operates the primary mobile network using digital-advanced mobile phone
service technology, while CETEL-CONGO and LIBERTIS TELECOM handle the second mobile
network using GSM technology) have been licensed. But the independent regulatory authority for
posts and telecommunications has not been established yet. Moreover, progress has been seriously
reversed by the recent decision to restore SOTELCO's monopoly on international
telecommunications.

4.2.6. The codes for water, electricity and petroleum distribution were approved by Parliament
and the necessary implementation decrees were published. Government also approved a new
forestry code introducing innovations such as mandatory implementation of management plans for
all production forests and making companies responsible for wildlife protection. But not all
implementation decrees have been issued to facilitate enforcement of the new code. As a follow
up to the forestry reform promoted under the Credit, Government and the Bank launched a study
on forest taxation. The study was conducted in a participatory fashion and resulted in a number of
recommendations, which, however, have not yet been translated into new regulations.
Government did issue a narrower set of fiscal regulations which have significantly increased
Government revenue. Efforts are still required to improve on and complement these regulations,



                                                - 6 -

help clarify the respective roles of the Ministry of Forests and the Ministry of Finance in the
collection of forest fees and taxes.

4.2.7. Some good progress took place in the areas of business environment. The Congo adopted
in 2003 an investment charter modeled on the one recommended by the Central African Economic
and Monetary Community (CEMAC) in 1999. Government also reduced the corporate tax rate
from 45 percent to 30-38 percent, while rationalizing tax exemptions. But the labor code hasn't
been revised.

Component 2: Transparency and Governance.
4.2.8. Efficacy of this component is rated modest, as its objectives were only partially met, and in
the key area of Government procurement, there has been regress, rather than progress.

4.2.9. Progress has been slow. Under the Bank's TGCBP, the first audit of SNPC's accounts (for
1999, 2000 and 2001) was conducted in the summer of 2003, even though collaboration of the
audited company was less than perfect. A summary of the audit report was posted on the
government website. The audit report made several recommendations, which, with Bank
assistance, were incorporated into an action plan that is being implemented under ERC. Other
actions taken to boost transparency include: the hiring of a reputable international company to
certify that, starting with the first quarter of 2003, all oil revenue owed to the Government have
been paid to the Treasury; centralization of all revenues from petroleum in the Treasury; the
creation of a Hydrocarbons Unit in the Ministry of Finance whose mandate includes the
monitoring of comprehensiveness and timeliness of oil revenue; and ending the potentially
un-transparent and costly procedures of paiement par anticipation, incurring by oil companies of
expenses on behalf of Government and oil-collateralized borrowing. Essential information on the
management of oil resources has also been published on the government website, though
information on the financial transactions carried out by SNPC on behalf of Government remains
incomplete.

4.2.10. Progress has been more limited in the forestry sector, though some improvements can be
observed in areas such as management plan implementation, revenue collection and the fight
against bush-meat trade. Reforms which remain to be carried out include implementing the
measures advocated by the 2003 forestry taxation study, improving coordination between the
Ministry of Finance and the Ministry in charge of Forests, certifying forestry revenues (as done
with oil revenue) and ensuring greater transparency and competition in the allocation of forest
concessions.

4.2.11. Steps taken by Government to activate the Auditor General's Office have been
inadequate. Government provided office space to the new institution but the key staff (financial
and economic counselors) have been hired with significant delay (in March 2005). Government
has also failed to reform its procurement, despite the availability of Bank assistance. In fact,
Government procurement is now less transparent and less efficient than before PCERC. Since
December 2002 the Délégation Générale des Grands Travaux, which reports directly to the
Presidency, became the sole manager of public investments larger than CFAF 500 million (about
US1 million equivalent). It manages government procurement, mostly on a direct contracting



                                                  - 7 -

basis, which is detrimental to transparency and efficiency.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The overall IDI of PCERC is rated modest. The project impact on the efficiency of the banking
system needs to be consolidated by making sure that the three privatized banks are adequately
capitalized and well supervised, and that the judicial system enables banks to recover their claims
speedily and cheaply. PCERC has had no significant impact on the functioning of utilities and
delivery of public services. The project has somewhat improved the Congo's ability to use more
efficiently and equitably its oil and forestry resources through better transparency. But
improvement was quite slow to come and much remains to be done to sustain and expand it. The
Auditor General office has been launched but so far PCERC has not significantly improved
efficiency and equity of public funds management, in particular in the area of public procurement.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1. Higher oil revenue, notably in 2003, enabled Government to strengthen demobilization
efforts and to invest US$950 million on infrastructure rehabilitation, which contributed to the
economic rebound sought by PCERC.

5.1.2. Support from some donors encouraged Government's reform efforts. In addition to IDA
and the IMF, the UNDP, EU, French Development Agency (AFD), FAO and UNICEF were
supportive of the Government's programs. But the problem of external arrears prevented greater
donor assistance.

5.1.3. On the negative side, lingering security problems continue to affect the confidence of
potential private investors, and have contributed to the lack of success in privatization of utilities.
Foreign investment outside oil and forestry has also been limited. The situation in neighboring
DRC also has affected investor confidence in the Congo.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1. The audit of SNPC could have been carried out earlier than the summer of 2003, nearly
two years after effectiveness. The head of the inter-ministerial technical committee too could have
been appointed earlier. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry in charge of Forestry could have
started working together earlier on issues of common interest.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Not applicable.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The amount originally approved for the project was US$37,670,400. The final amount disbursed
was slightly different (US$37,852,500), due to exchange rate fluctuation.



                                                     - 8 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1. The sustainability of the project is rated likely for the following reasons. The first is the
progress that has and is being made towards peace and reconciliation. The situation is still fragile,
but as time passes, it is becoming less likely that the Congo will slip back to internal conflict. The
Bank and the international community will continue to provide grants to continue demobilization
and reintegration of ex-combatants. The second is that Government remains committed to reform,
a commitment which is expected to be sustained by ongoing and future support from the Bank,
the IMF and other donors. Also, new discoveries of oil made in 2004 and high oil prices, if
sustained, may slow down the reform effort.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1. Both the Bank's ERC and forthcoming Infrastructure Project, as well as the Fund's PRGF
continue the goals of PCERC in the areas of transparency and structural reform, though goals in
the latter are now more realistic than before. Activities to improve transparency are also
supported by the TGCBP and the Emergency Recovery and Community Support Project. In
terms of institutions, the Privatization Committee and the Hydrocarbon Unit in the Ministry of
Finance are expected to remain in place, and the latter is expected to be strengthened under IDA's
TGCBP. However, there is no strong structure in Government to follow up on the reform
program. This is a serious issue which has already been discussed with the authorities.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
PCERC is rated satisfactory at entry, with the caveat mentioned at the end of the paragraph. First,
it is consistent with the strategic goals of both Government and the Bank. Second, Government
had already resumed its reform effort in the absence of programs with the Bank and the IMF.
Third, many activities envisaged under the Credit were taken prior to approval. Fourth, Bank staff
worked closely with the Ministry of Finance prior to credit approval. Combining a technical
assistance project (TGCBP) with an adjustment operation was appropriate in view of the Congo's
weak capacity. Fifth, risks associated with the Credit were properly assessed and measures taken
to mitigate them wherever possible. And sixth, the objectives and design of the Credit took into
account the experience of the Bank in post-conflict countries. However, as stated above, the
privatization goals were overoptimistic, and perhaps not entirely relevant to a country emerging
from a decade of civil war.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank performance is rated satisfactory, with, however, two shortcomings: the Bank could
have acted more forcefully to shorten the delay with which the SNPC audit was conducted; and
the Bank was slow to express concern about the regress in Government procurement.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In view of the above, the Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:



                                                  - 9 -

Government performance during project preparation is rated satisfactory. Government
collaborated well with the Bank appraisal team and met Board presentation conditions.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation is rated satisfactory. As mentioned above,
Government could have carried out the audit of the accounts of SNPC earlier than the summer of
2003, two years after effectiveness, and appointed earlier the head of the inter-ministerial
technical committee. The difficulties in getting the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry in charge
of Forestry to work together also delayed progress in the forestry sector. Steps taken by
Government to activate the Auditor General's Office have been inadequate. Finally, Government
failed to reform its procurement, despite the availability of Bank assistance.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies was satisfactory. The inter-ministerial technical
committee functioned well once it was established. The performance of the Privatization
Committee too was satisfactory. As explained above, delays in privatization were also due to
exogenous factors.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

8.1.1. A key lesson is that a small but timely and well designed operation can make a significant
contribution to consolidating peace, reviving the economy and helping a post-conflict country get
away from the conflict trap. The Credit strengthened the resolve of the Government to continue
with its reforms. Therefore, early engagement of the Bank with post-conflict countries can be very
rewarding.

8.1.2. A second lesson is the importance of receiving strong signals of Government commitment
to reform. In the case of PCERC, commitment was shown by reform efforts launched by
Government, with its own resources, prior to credit approval.

8.1.3. A third lesson is that parallel implementation of other mutually reinforcing lending
operations, notably those providing technical assistance, can improve the chances of success. The
accompanying TGCBC provided technical assistance, which helped to implement reforms under
PCERC. The Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration Project addressed vital issues in the
Congo, which improved the chances of success. Thus, in post-conflict countries, a
comprehensive, not a partial, approach seems more likely to yield quick and positive results.

8.1.4. A fourth lesson is that for a post-conflict country like the Congo, privatization goals should
not be too ambitious. Efforts to privatize the water and electricity utilities, and the railways, were
less successful than expected because potential investors viewed the risk of undertaking large
investment as too high. This lesson is being taken into account in the design of the Infrastructure
Facilitation Project, which is under preparation. More precisely, in agreement with the authorities,
the project will seek to privatize only the management of the water utility and the collection of
user fees of the electricity utility.



                                                 - 10 -

8.1.5. A fifth lesson is that for a post-conflict country with limited implementation capacity, the
design of the project should be kept as simple as possible. In that respect, although PCERC had
only two main components, the number of its sub-components (at least six) was rather high. This
lesson has explicitly been taken into account in the design of the ongoing ERC, which is
significantly simpler.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The government's comments are presented below.


Report on the implementation of the Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit

        In the context of the post-conflict program agreed on by the Government of the Republic
of Congo and the Bretton Woods institutions on July 31, 2001, a budget support credit was
granted to Congo. The Congolese Government undertook to pursue the structural reforms
already begun, to promote transparency and responsibility for financial management, etc.

        At the end of said project and with a view to producing the pertinent completion report, it
seemed to us that it would be helpful to evaluate the performance of the Government and that of
the World Bank by means of this questionnaire.

A.      Performance of the Government

1.      Structural reforms

        At the beginning of the 1990s, the Government had clearly opted for a market economy.
To accomplish this, with the support of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, and
the Agence Française de Développement, it embarked on a reform program, the central
component of which was divestiture by the State of all industrial and commercial activities.

a)      Privatization of facilities and services

        Accordingly, after the war and notwithstanding numerous constraints, the Government
moved ahead with implementation of these structural reforms, with special emphasis on
privatization of the big public enterprises.

i)      Three commercial banks

        At the end of the war in 1998, and following the assessment made of the Congolese
banking system by the Central African Banking Commission (COBAC), a plan was drawn up for
restructuring and privatizing of three banks whose capital was held by the State.

        Five years later, the banking landscape has changed considerably. Aside from the mutual



                                                 - 11 -

credit cooperative system, all the other banks (UCB, BIDC, CAIC) have been fully privatized.

        Three new banks have been established, namely COFIPA, Crédit Lyonnais, and the
Congolaise de Banques.

        Thanks to the rehabilitation and reorganization efforts carried out by the Government,
apart from COFIPA the Congolese banks have become solvent and are generating significant
operating surpluses.

ii)     Water supply

        The water sector is governed by Law No. 13-2003 of April 10, 2003, establishing the
Water Code.

        The purpose of this law is to:

        -   ensure rational use of the resource and to meet users' needs as regards quantity,
            quality, and price.

        The concession for the national water distribution company, has been awarded to the
British company BIWATER.

        Several concession arrangements had been attempted earlier, but without success.

        BIWATER insisted on some exceptional benefits for operating the water concession:

-       increasing of the price per m3 of water;
-       total exemption from customs duties and taxes;
-       no requirement to pay royalties on the concession;
-       drastic reduction of SNDE's personnel;
-       assumption of responsibility by the Congolese State to provide 80 percent of the financing
needed for bringing the sector up to par.

        In view of the extent to which the work has fallen behind schedule and the benefits
requested, the Congolese Government has sent a formal notification to perform to BIWATER.

        A procedure is underway to cancel the decree awarding the public service concession for
water to BIWATER.

        The water component of a project to rehabilitate energy and water infrastructure is in
course of implementation with World Bank assistance. This project is designed to rehabilitate the
infrastructure, strengthen the management of the water services, and build capacities in the
management and tariff policy spheres.

iii)    Electricity



                                                - 12 -

        In the electricity sector, the Government of the Republic of Congo has had an inventory
made, with World Bank financing, of the assets of the Société Nationale d'Electricité du Congo
with a view to its privatization. The assessment of the situation and the study with the authorities
of the measures required to successfully restart the privatization process were made during said
inventory. The discussions held with the candidates did not produce the hoped-for results. The
consultant delivered its final report in February 2003. As things are at present, it would be
advisable to redynamize the company before envisaging a privatization program.

iv)     The postal and telecommunications services

        The communications sector is governed by Law No. 47-97 of May 26, 1997.                 The
splitting and liquidation of the Postal Office led to the creation of two entities: SOPECO (postal
service), which was established by Order No. 10/2001 of July 12, 2001, and SOTELCO
(telecommunications) which was created by Order No. 11/2001 of July 1, 2001.

        The next stages would be:

-       The holding of a meeting for consultation with the Ministry of Posts, Telecommunications
and New Technologies with a view to defining the new legal and regulatory framework for
SOTELCO;

-       The resumption of contact with the World Bank in order to restart the SOTELCO
privatization dossier and draw up the terms of reference for the restructuring of the postal service.

v)      The Congo-Ocean Railway (CFCO)

        The call for bids on the CFCO concession was declared void. The Government has
subsequently begun a private agreement procedure with the two bidders.

        The    financial   model    and   the   financial   parameters   of    the  South    African
SHELTAM-MVELA group have been examined and the findings communicated to the
Government.

        To cover any delay in the raising of funds by the donors, the SHELTAM-MVELA group
is proposing to the Congolese State a management contract for CFCO. During this transitional
period the group will take care of what needs to be done until such time as the concession
agreement enters into force.

b)      Improvement of the legal and regulatory framework

i)      Water supply

        Law No. 13-2003 of April 10, 2003, establishing the Water Code provides for the setting
up of the following:



                                                - 13 -

-      a consultative council on water;

-      a regulatory body responsible for the proper provision of the public water supply service;

-      a development fund for the water sector.

       The texts to govern these three bodies have been drafted and are in the process of
       adoption.

ii)    Distribution of petroleum products

       The transfer of the assets of Hydro-Congo, a company responsible for the distribution and
marketing of petroleum products, took place in August 2002.

       Among other things, this transfer led to:

-      the creation of the Soçiété Congolaise de Logistique for management of the depots and
bulk product transportation;

-      buying back of the distribution system and of the stations by TOTAL Congo,
TEXACO-Congo, and the PEX Consortium consisting of the X-OIL company and the British
PUMA ENERGY company.

iii)   Electricity

       Since 1999, the Government has been carrying out a program of reforms in this sector.

       For instance, on April 10, 2003, Law No. 14-2003 was enacted which established the
Electricity Code. This law brought in several innovations which included:

-      establishment of an independent regulatory body for the sector;

-      establishment of a national development fund for the sector;

-      establishment of a rural electrification agency.

       The texts creating these bodies have been published.

       Of these three bodies, only the National Rural Electrification Agency has already been set
up. The texts concerning the setting up of the other two are currently being drafted.

iv)    Forests

       Congo's forests rank second after petroleum among the country's natural resources and



                                                - 14 -

represent an immense reservoir of biodiversity. They cover almost 60 percent of the national
territory.

        The Congolese Government has adopted an updated legal framework, which is unique and
appropriate to the purpose and designed to facilitate implementation of a new forestry policy
pursuing a development strategy based on universally recognized principles for sustainable
management of forest resources.

        This framework constitutes the guarantee for comprehensive development of the forest
sector by ensuring on a sustainable basis the production, local processing and marketing of
lumber, industrial wood and construction wood, together with utilization of other forest products
and conservation of ecosystems and biochemistry.

        This is why Law No. 16-2000, of November 20, 2000, was adopted which established the
Forest Code that defines the principles of management, conservation and sustainable use of forest
ecosystems.

        This law is accompanied by the following implementing legislation:

-       decree organizing and detailing the functioning of the corps of Water and Forest Wardens;

-       decree establishing the procedures for sharing the proceeds of the land tax earmarked for
the development of the districts;

-       decree detailing the powers, organization and operation of the service charged with
control and inspection of forest products for export;

-       decree detailing the powers, organization and operation of the National Inventory and
Development Center for Forest and Financial Resources;

-       decree regulating the organization and functioning of the National Forestry Development
Fund.

c)      Improving inducements and facilitating private investment

        i)      Introduction of procedures permitting establishment of new businesses

        In the present context of economic liberalization, the Government's objective is to
establish a market economy in which the free play of competition enables investments to pay off.

        Accordingly, the Government has taken a certain number of steps to encourage the
development of small and medium enterprises and industries.

        The effect of these measures is evident today in:




                                               - 15 -

-      the existence of a single window for business formalities;

-      the publication of a national investment charter which provides a general framework for
the promotion of business;

-      the inclusion in production-sharing contracts of a Provision for Diversified Investment
(PDI).

       Congo is, moreover, a member of certain international organizations including those
relating to the procedures of international arbitration courts, including:

-      the CEMAC (Communauté Economique et Monétaire des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale)
Court of Justice;

-      the Organization for the Harmonization of Business Law in Africa.

ii)    Other administrative and fiscal barriers to private investment

       From the administrative standpoint, there is no agreement-based sector of activity which is
reserved exclusively for nationals.

       As regards taxation, neither the Tax Code nor the Investment Charter includes
discriminatory provisions likely to discourage investment.

       With regard to the diagnostic study/situation of the critical path for the investments, since
a compromise could not be reached with FIAS, the Coordination Unit of the Project for
Strengthening Capacities for Transparency and Governance (PRCTG), upon instructions from
IDA, opted to seek consultants or specialized organizations capable of carrying out the study in
question. The choice fell on IFC, ACBF and the PERFORMANCE firm.

       After contacting the first two, it was found that they could only negotiate directly with
governments, which meant that the PRCTG was not in a position to submit a request for
assistance.   An alternative solution consisting in approaching international firms was then
considered, and invitations for expressions of interest were accordingly published in the national
and international press. In the course of the coming weeks the PRCTG will select the consultant
best suited to perform this study.

2.     Transparency and accountability of public financial management

a)     Management of the resources deriving from the following sectors

i)     Petroleum

       In the hydrocarbons sector the Government, with World Bank assistance, has had the
following audits performed:



                                                 - 16 -

-       Audit of the Société Nationale des Pétroles du Congo (SNPC), for the 1999, 2000 and
2001 fiscal years;

-       Audit of SNCP's consolidated accounts for fiscal 2002;

-       Audit of the Congolaise de Raffinage, consolidated accounts for 2002.

        A number of other activities are programmed for the course of 2005, including:

-       Diagnostic study of the entire hydrocarbons sector;

-       Financial audit of SNCP, FY 2003;

-       Hiring of a firm to implement the action plan based on the recommendations deriving from
the audits of SNPC for fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001;

-       Audit of oil-related costs in 2003;

-       Vocational training in the oil-related trades;

-       Verification of the statements received from partners under the SNPC contracts, to be
performed by external auditors under the terms of the contracts in association with the SNPC
professionals;

-       Study for optimum utilization of the country's oil assets;

-       Gathering of data from the partners in order to clear the reservations expressed by the
auditor;

-       Preparation of a manual of procedures for SNPC by a specialized firm.

ii)     Forests:

        The intention is to have an internationally recognized firm perform the audit of the
certification of forestry revenues for 2004.

        This audit is scheduled to be completed by September 2005.

b)      Audit of public finances

        At the public finances level, two audits have been performed with World Bank assistance,
namely:

-       the operational audit of the tax administration;



                                                 - 17 -

-       the operational audit of the customs administration.

        Some other actions have also been carried out:

-       Feasibility study with a view to establishing an urban tax register;

-       Procurement of SYGADE software within the framework of a contract with UNCTAD
for better debt management; and

-       Feasibility study of the local radio loop and integration of the Brazzaville ­ Pointe-Noire
and Nord-Congo link.

c)      Reform of public procurement

        Much thought has been given to this question, by both the Directorate of Planning and
Development of the Ministry of Planning, Regional Development, and Economic Integration, and
the Office of the President of the Republic. The difficulties involved in revising the Procurement
Code have been reviewed with the World Bank.

        However, work is now underway on drafting a Procurement Code.

3.      Strengthening of institutional development capacities

        At the beginning of 2004 the Government, with World Bank assistance, began the process
of moving the Cour des Comptes et de Discipline Budgétaire into a building constructed a few
months earlier. The furniture is now being installed. The data-processing and other office
equipment and requisites for the senior officials are to be delivered very shortly. The Cour des
Comptes should soon be installed and operational.

4.      Peace process, national reconciliation, and transition to democracy

        After the tragic trials Congo has undergone, its top priority must now be to forge a
historic solution that will ensure lasting protection for the nation against the risks and trauma of
further violence. The following actions have accordingly been carried out to this end:

a)      Signature and implementation of the agreements with all the rebel and political
        groups

        In December 1999 the agreements on cessation of hostilities were signed by the
Government and the rebels.

b)      Promotion of a political reconciliation

        After these agreements, a national dialogue with no group or parties excluded was



                                                 - 18 -

organized in April 2001, in two stages:

-      The first stage comprised decentralized debates in the regions, the communes, and the
arrondissements (administrative districts of urban areas).

-      The second stage, termed the "National Convention," was held in Brazzaville, during
which the participants signed the convention on the peace, essentially a document to govern the
economic and sociopolitical life of the country. Among other things, this document called for
weapons to be turned in and collected.

       As of this writing, weapons have been collected throughout the Republic except in the
Pool.

       With assistance from the World Bank, the former combatants have been demobilized and
many have been reintegrated into civilian life through projects financed by the World Bank.

c)     Adoption of a new Constitution

       In January 2002 the population expressed its will through a referendum on a new
constitution, calling for the installation of a presidential government.

d)     Holding of free, fair and credible elections

       Also in 2002, Congo held other elections, for president, legislature, and Senate. It must,
however, be noted that the legislative elections have not yet taken place in the Pool region;
preparations are nevertheless underway for them to be held.

e)     Administrative decentralization, demarginalization, and local communities

       The Constitution of January 20 recognizes the existence of local authorities distinct from
the State, in particular departments and communes, and their free administration, with effect from
January 2003, by executives elected by the departmental or municipal counselors.

       The implementation of the provisions of the Constitution has permitted recognition and
organization of political life.

       In this context several laws have been adopted, including:

-      law establishing the administrative organization of the country;

-      law establishing the exercise of supervision over the local authorities.

-      law transferring powers to the local authorities;

-      law governing the organization and functioning of the local authorities.



                                                  - 19 -

        The above constitutes a legal framework which guarantees the free administration of the
local communities by councils elected by universal suffrage.

B.      Performance of the World Bank

        1.      Prompt approval of the credit

        The Post-Conflict Rehabilitation Credit is intended:

o       For repayment of the US$30 million bridging facility;

o       For financing the activities connected with the demobilization and reintegration of the
former combatants.

        Initially scheduled for presentation to the World Bank Board before July 31, 2001, this
presentation did not take place until considerably later, just before October 31, 2001. This phase,
which was intended to lay the foundations for the architecture of the project and determine the
principles on which the appraisal would be based, did not in fact take place until October 12-25,
2001.

        This being the second operation designed to assist with the demobilization and
reintegration of former combatants, the credit agreement was signed on August 8, 2001, which
opened the way for the agreement to enter into effect.

        It should be noted that the time taken up by ratification delayed the entry into effect of this
project, because it coincided with the elections scheduled in Congo, since the required presidential
order was not admissible pending the formalities for installing the democratically elected
Parliament.

2.      The speed of the disbursement process

        The speed of this process can be determined during the implementation of a project on the
basis of three criteria:

·       the time needed to obtain responses to requests for "no objection"

        At the start of the budget year, a procurement plan was drawn up with the assistance of
World Bank supervision missions in order to enable the borrower to plan all the expenditures on
goods and services to be financed from the IDA credit. This was done to ensure that the
contracting process and the pertinent directives were properly observed.

        It must also be borne in mind that when expenditure is subject to a priori review, then
whatever the procurement method adopted, each stage must be subjected to Bank approval
before signature of the contract, or else run the risk of being considered an ineligible expense.



                                                 - 20 -

        In this case, the time taken to give statements of no objection can be long if the dossier or
activity has any complex features.

        This delay which can occur in the processing of requests for statements of no objection is
by its nature prone to slow down the disbursement process.

·       The frequencies of replenishment of the special account

        These frequencies make it possible to measure the rate of the special account requests
transmitted by the World Bank for processing. The reduction of the waiting times before the
account is credited with the amount sought is also an important indicator of the rapidity with
which the Bank replenishes the special account.

        However, it often happens that these times are lengthened between the moment the
request is delivered to the Resident Mission and its forwarding to the processing center in South
Africa.

        During this interval, a funding need arises equivalent to the amount of the expenditures for
which reimbursement is claimed, especially when the maximum level of the account is insufficient.

·       The time taken to process requests drawing on the credit account

        The request for special commitment is used upon the initiative of the supplier in an
international transaction; it requires that the client cover a letter of credit with the World Bank
and request that the Bank confirm an irrevocable commitment in favor of the correspondent's
bank.

        Each of these stages involves more or less long processing times, to which must be added
the time needed by the World Bank to generate the paperwork required by this type operation.

3.      The support provided by the Bank to the Government in:

a)      privatization of the commercial banks, water supply, electricity, telecommunication
        services, and the Congo-Ocean Railway

        An Energy and Water Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project is currently being implemented,
as regards its water component, with assistance from the World Bank. The purpose of this
project is to rehabilitate infrastructure facilities, improve the management of the water services,
and strengthen capacities in the spheres of management and tariff policy.

        In the electricity sector, the Government of the Republic of Congo, with World Bank
financing, had an inventory made of the assets of the Société Nationale d'Electricité du Congo
with a view to its privatization.




                                                  - 21 -

b)      improvement of the legal and regulatory framework

        A study was made for a draft law creating a multisectoral regulatory agency by PRTG.

c)      improvement of inducements for and facilitation of private investment

        The study of the administrative and tax barriers to private investment is underway by
FIAS.    However, there is a problem regarding the financing of the committee to steer the
structure.

d)      strengthening of the transparency and accountability of the financial management
        of public funds

        Establishment of institutions and improvement of the functioning of those in existence.
This is the case with the Cour des Comptes of the Inspectorate General of Finance. The reform
of the public procurement system is being prepared.

C.      Factors which have influenced the implementation of the credit and affected its
results

        Some other constraints not imputable to the World Bank can be mentioned. For instance:

-       the transportation of goods for which payment is arranged through the special
commitment procedure between the supplier's country and that of the client;

-       unforeseeable circumstances which can arise in the execution of operations of this type,
which can have the consequence of extending the processing time of the documents required;

-       observance of the conditions stipulated and the time schedules laid down in calls for bids.

        This situation has a definite impact on the pace of disbursement, which is slowed down,
and on the disbursement rate, to the extent of being an obstacle to efficient performance.

D.      Comments on the activities of other development partners which have influenced
the implementation and results of the credit.

        The disbursement system recommended by UNCTAD is in contradiction with IDA's
directives concerning disbursement.

E.      Lessons learned

        The project achieved 45 percent of the mobilization rate in the second year of
        implementation.


(b) Cofinanciers:



                                               - 22 -

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

10.1. There was no ICR mission, mainly because of time and budget constraints.




                                             - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



 Development          Projected at Appraisal                    Actual Outputs
 Objective

1. Help the Congo    Help government clear arrears to the       Achieved. The bridge loan was secured
normalize relations  Bank by enabling it to secure a bridge     and arrears to the Bank cleared. The
with international   loan to be repaid from PCERC so that       Credit was approved on July 31, 2001,
donors through       Bank lending to the Congo can resume. signed and became effective on August
resumption of World                                             8, 2001, and disbursed on the same day.
Bank lending                                                    This was followed by the approval of
                                                                seven IDA credits amounting to
                                                                US$162 million between July 2001 and
                                                                December 2004.

2. Pursue and deepen Privatize three Government- owned         Partly achieved. CAIC, BIDC and
Structural Reforms   commercial banks                          COFIPA have been privatized but remain
                                                               weak, prompting Government to reverse,
                                                               hopefully temporarily, the privatization of
                                                               one bank.

                     Privatize water and electricity utilities Partly achieved. Government has not
                     and the railroad;                         succeeded in privatizing water, electricity
                     liberalize and privatize the              and the Congo-Ocean railway through
                     telecommunications sector                 concession, mainly because potential
                                                               foreign investors have been deterred by the
                                                               large investment required to rehabilitate
                                                               these facilities. Government is now
                                                               planning to undertake some of the
                                                               required investment itself, to privatize the
                                                               management of the water company and
                                                               the fee collection of the electricity utility.
                                                               It is also continuing negotiations with
                                                               interested parties to privatize the railway
                                                               company.

                                                               The national posts and
                                                               telecommunications office was split in two
                                                               and three private companies are providing
                                                               mobile phone service. But progress has
                                                               been partially reversed by the decision to
                                                               restore Government monopoly on
                                                               international telecommunications.

                     Approval by Parliament of already          Achieved. The codes for water,
                     prepared codes for water, electricity, oil electricity, oil and forestry were
                     distribution and forestry. Publication of approved and published, and so were
                     these codes and their implementing         the corresponding implementation
                     decrees.                                   decrees.

                     Improve incentives and facilitate private Achieved. A national investment
                     investment                                 charter was adopted in 2003, based on
                                                                the one approved by CEMAC. It




                                                    - 24 -

                                                      rationalizes tax exemptions. A one-stop
                                                      window for investors was established.

3. Improve       Improve transparency in the         Partly achieved. After significant delay,
Transparency and management of oil and forestry      the accounts of SNPC were audited by an
Governance       resources                           international audit firm and a summary
                                                     audit report posted on the Government
                                                     web site. An action plan based on the
                                                     recommendations of the audit report has
                                                     been formulated with Bank assistance and
                                                     is being implemented under ERC.
                                                     Government has used the same audit firm
                                                     to certify veracity and timeliness of oil
                                                     revenue.

                                                     Progress towards transparency in the
                                                     forestry sector has also been slow. A
                                                     taxation study was carried out, and
                                                     Government is committed to
                                                     implementing reforms proposed in the
                                                     study and to improving coordination
                                                     between the Ministry of Finance and the
                                                     Ministry in charge of Forests with respect
                                                     to the collection and transfer of revenue to
                                                     the Treasury.

                 Ensure accountability in the        Partly achieved. The Auditor General
                 management of public funds          Office is just beginning to be operational.
                                                     There has been regress, in the key area of
                                                     Government procurement reform.

                                                     Two relatively un-transparent budgetary
                                                     procedures (paiements par anticipation
                                                     and payments undertaken by oil
                                                     companies on behalf of Government) have
                                                     been discontinued in 2003. So was the
                                                     expensive and also un-transparent
                                                     oil-collateralized borrowing.




                                              - 25 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable. The Credit was disbursed in a single tranche upon signing and effectiveness of the
credit agreement.




                                              - 26 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               04/2001                   1    Sr Telecommunications Eng
                                         1    Sr Counsel
                                         1    Finance Officer
                                         1    Operations Analyst
                                         1    Lead Operations Officer
                                         3    Economists
                                         2    Consultants
                                         1    Team Assistant
                                                                                    S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               06/2001                   1    Sr Energy Economist
                                         1    Operations Analyst
                                         1    Lead Operations Officer
                                         1    Sr Counsel
                                         1    Sr Telecommunications Eng
                                         2    Economists
                                         1    Consultant
                                                                                    S               S

 Supervision
               07/2002                    3   Economists
                                          1   Sr Telecommunications Eng
                                          1   Operations Analyst
                                          1   Lead Financial Specialist
                                          1   Operations Officer
                                          3   Consultants
                                                                                    S               S

 ICR
               09/2004                   1     Consultant
                                         1     Economist
                                                                                    S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              12.88                    US$103,430
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   17.55                    US$122,933
  Supervision                              51.9                    US$235,378
  ICR                                      5.05                      US$66,597
  Total                                   87.38                    US$528,339



                                               - 28 -

- 29 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Other (Peace, national reconciliation and democracy).




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.     Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Congo, November 13, 2000

2.     Report and Recommendation of the President of the International Development
Association to the Executive Directors on a Proposed Credit of SDR 30.0 Million (US&37.5
Million Equivalent) to the Republic of Congo for a Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit,
Report No. P-7467-COB, July 6, 2001

3.     Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Congo, August 8, 2003

4.     International Development Association Program Document on a Proposed Credit in the
Amount of SDR 20.5 Million (US$30 Million Equivalent) to the Republic of Congo for an
Economic Recovery Credit, Report No. 29518, July 29, 2004

5.     The Republic of Congo Joint IDA-IMF Staff Advisory Note and Interim Poverty
Reduction Strategy Paper, Report No. 30709, November 17, 2004




                                              - 32 -

- 33 -

