                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                       Report No: 26047

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                         (IDA-25180; TF-23905; CPL-36240; SCL-3624A)

                                            ON A

                                           LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$325 MILLION

                                           AND A

                                          CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR118.9 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                           FOR A

                      GRAIN DISTRIBUTION AND MARKETING PROJECT




                                        June 27, 2003




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective May 2003)

                  Currency Unit = Yuan
                           Y1.0 = US$ 0.12
                      US$ 1.00 = Y8.3

                        FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
     CIECC         China International Engineering Consulting Corporation
     CPMO          Central Project Management Office
     DWT           Deadweight tons
     FCMO          Foreign Capital Management Office
     ICR           Implementation Completion Report
     ID            Intermediate Depot
     ICB           International Competitive Bidding
     ITC           International Tendering Company
     MDT           Ministry of Domestic Trade
     MOC           Ministry of Commerce
     MOF           Ministry of Finance
     NCB           National Competitive Bidding
     NEC           Northeast Corridor
     PD            Primary Depot
     PMO           Project Management Office
     SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
     TA            Technical Assistance
     tph           Tons per hour




                 Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
      Country Manager/Director:     Yukon Huang, EACCF
       Sector Manager/Director:     Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Alan Piazza, EASRD

                                            CHINA
                 GRAIN DISTRIBUTION AND MARKETING PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            26
Annex 8. Implementing Agency's ICR Summary                                       27
Annex 9. Transition To Bulk Grain Handling                                       37
Maps IBRD 24607, 24608 and 24609

Project ID: P003627                                                      Project Name: Grain Distribution and Marketing
                                                                         Project
Team Leader: Alan L. Piazza                                              TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 26, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Grain Distribution and Marketing Project                 L/C/TF Number: IDA-25180; TF-23905;
                                                                                                     CPL-36240; SCL-3624A
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Ports, waterways and shipping (30%); Crops (30%); Agricultural
                            marketing and trade (25%); General transportation sector (9%);
                            Central government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Administrative and civil service reform (P); Trade facilitation and
                            market access (P); Rural markets (S); Regulation and competition
                            policy (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/30/1991                                        Effective: 12/15/1993              12/15/1993
   Appraisal:    11/16/1992                                            MTR: 07/14/1997                07/14/1997
    Approval:    06/17/1993                                         Closing: 06/30/2000               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/MIN OF COMMERCE
                      Other Partners:      AIDAB (Australia), CIDA (Canada), FAO, France, Netherlands, UNDP

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Gautam S. Kaji
Country Director:               Yukon Huang                                    Shahid Javed Burki - Department Director
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Joseph R. Goldberg - Division Chief
Team Leader at ICR:             Alan Piazza                                    Alan Piazza
ICR Primary Author:             Albert Nyberg; Alan Piazza


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:HL

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
This was an extremely large scale project with highly ambitious policy reform, institutional development,
and physical infrastructure objectives. The project comprised some 384 sites in thirteen provinces and
municipalities with a total investment of about US$1 billion. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), the primary objectives of the project were to (a) support the Government's grain sector reforms
aimed at improving the policy and institutional environment, (b) assist institutional and infrastructure
development in physical and commodity markets, and (c) facilitate the expansion and greatly improve the
efficiency of China's domestic and international grain trade through investments in critical infrastructure.

The project objectives closely reflected the Borrower's strong interest in reform of the grain sector and
improved efficiency in grain distribution and marketing. In particular, the Government wanted to reduce its
mounting fiscal losses on supplying grain to urban consumers (prior to the project, urban retail grain prices
were considerably less than rural procurement prices). The grain distribution and marketing system was
dominated by inefficient bag handling which further increased costs and thereby added to government
expenditure in the grain sector. Building upon the policy reform recommendations of the Bank's 1991
study "China: Options for Reform in the Grain Sector," the project's objectives were clearly stated,
important, and consistent with the CAS objectives of supporting rural economic reform and development.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives remained unchanged.

3.3 Original Components:
The bulk of the project investments focused on the introduction of modern, high-speed, bulk handling
technologies to improve grain marketing efficiency and increase capacity. The technologies involved were
not well known to national engineers specializing in grain-handling, though they were well proven and
widely utilized in the developed countries. Therefore, considerable efforts were made to ensure that
international technical assistance consultants, knowledgeable in the current technology and modern
logistical systems, were engaged as counterparts with national design engineers, construction supervisors,
and project implementation managers. In addition, considerable training investments were made. The
training was conducted primarily through domestic training institutes, but also involved international
training financed through the project's training budget and through operational and maintenance training
provided by international equipment suppliers. The project was organized and implemented on the basis of
the following transportation "corridors", market services, and training and TA components:

(1)      Northeast Corridor - Dayao Bay and Bayuquan Ports (21.6% of total project cost at
appraisal). A major and increasing proportion of China's feed grain (corn) and soybeans was produced in
the northeastern provinces. However, at the time of project preparation, marketing flows were hampered by
grain policies that promoted storage rather than trade, and by antiquated physical marketing facilities. The
grain sector was being liberalized and it was becoming increasing apparent that grain handling and
transportation facilities would increasingly constrain marketing and production. As has been the case in
many other countries over the last century, this necessitated the modernization of marketing infrastructure
and the improvement of grain logistics. Also, at the time of appraisal, wheat inflows were increasing
through the Dalian ports which service the northeastern provinces. A key component of the project was to
be the development of a Dayao Bay Terminal at the recently developed Dayao Bay Port (in Dalian in
Liaoning province). The terminal would comprise a wheat unloading berth capable of accommodating
80,000 DWT vessels, two 30,000 DWT corn loading berths, two 1,200 tph ship unloaders and four 800
tph ship unloaders, 300,000 tons of vertical silo storage, high speed hopper rail wagon loading and



                                                     - 2 -

unloading facilities, and state-of-the-art conveying, weighing, ancillary facilities, and site infrastructure. In
addition, the Bayuquan Grain Terminal was to be constructed in the new Bayuquan port area (in Yingkou
in Liaoning province). The terminal would comprise a corn loading berth for vessels of 30,000 DWT
vessels, two 800 tph ship loaders, 100,000 tons of vertical silo storage, high speed hopper rail wagon
loading and unloading facilities, and appropriate ancillary equipment and infrastructure. These two
terminals were designed to increase port grain outflow capacity by 10.1 million tons (including 7.1 million
tons through the Dayao Bay Terminal and 3.0 million tons through the Bayuquan Grain Terminal) and
inflow capacity by 3.0 million tons (through the Dayao Bay Terminal).

(2)      Northeast Corridor - Hinterland (54.6% of total project cost at appraisal). The project outflow
of 10.1 million tons would be sourced from 59 intermediate grain depots (ID), strategically located along
rail lines in high production counties (in the four northeastern provinces of Liaoning, Jilin, Heilongjiang,
and Inner Mongolia) which, in turn, would be serviced by 279 country depots (primary depots ­ PD) and
surrounding farms. The IDs would be provided bulk truck unloading and bulk rail wagon loading facilities,
appropriate silo storage facilities, high-speed mechanized facilities for cleaning, drying, conveying and
handling grain and other improved site infrastructure. The PDs would be provided equipment and facilities
for drying and storing grain, bulk truck loading equipment, and other ancillary facilities. Some 840 bulk
trucks (of 10 to 12 ton capacity each) would be supplied to supplement the existing trucking capacity to
convey grain to the rail-side depots. These depots and the port terminals would be rail-linked and grain
would be conveyed in 2,400 bulk rail wagons (of 60 ton capacity each) designed for rapid loading and
unloading.

(3)      Yangtze River Corridor (12.2% of total project cost at appraisal). This project component was
designed to improve and increase grain flows along the mid- and lower Yangtze River. The Yangtze River
basin produces surplus rice ­ which flows to other regions of China or is exported from terminals near the
river mouth ­ but is deficit in feed grain and wheat. The project facilities were designed to add about 2.4
million tons of grain inflow capacity and 1.0 million tons of rice outflow capacity. Infrastructure
investments would be made for two river-mouth terminals (in Jiangsu) that could accommodate 30-35,000
DWT oceangoing vessels, four upstream river terminals (located in Anhui, Jiangxi, Hubei, and Hunan),
and 10 bulk-barges to provide a shuttle service connecting the upriver and river-mouth terminals. Each
terminal would be provided with vertical silos, bulk loading and unloading equipment, and high capacity
conveying and handling equipment. Existing barge vessels were expected to meet most of the
transportation needs, but a few bulk trucks and rail wagons were also to be provided.

(4)      Southwest Corridor (5.0% of total project cost at appraisal). This component was designed as a
grain inflow corridor as this area was deficit in both food and feed grains. The project would establish an
integrated bulk grain distribution system in the southwest by upgrading the grain terminal at Fangcheng
Port (in Guangxi) enabling it to handle bulk inflows of 1.6 million tons. New terminal facilities would
include an 800 tph continuous ship unloader, a dedicated grain berth capable of receiving vessels of 40,000
DWT, 50,000 tons of vertical silos, high capacity conveying equipment and ancillary facilities. Inland
facilities consisted of improving facilities at three existing IDs (all in Guangxi) including high speed bulk
rail wagon unloading facilities. Some 220 bulk rail wagons would be transferred to the region and 90 bulk
trucks were to be procured to meet the transportation requirements.

(5)      Beijing Central Depot (2.5% of total project cost at appraisal). A state-of-the-art bulk grain
transfer and storage facility would be constructed on the outskirts of Beijing to improve food and feed grain
handling and storage, generate savings through reduced congestion, and facilitate bulk rail shipments. The
new facility would improve the urban environment by replacing three urban depots and their antiquated
pollution control equipment. Also, urban land would be released for alternative use. The new facility would


                                                       - 3 -

include 62,000 tons of silo storage, high-speed bulk rail wagon unloading equipment, and complete truck
loading and ancillary facilities.

(6)      Market Services (0.7% of total project cost at appraisal).     Continuing liberalization of the grain
sector required the consolidation and linking of market information, development of a `national' market,
and establishment of forward and futures markets for grain. The project would assist in market
development by providing computer (hardware and software) and network systems to assemble, assess,
analyze, and disseminate price and market information nationwide. In addition, the project would provide
supplemental computer and computer networks for two grain futures markets (tentatively identified as the
Shanghai and Zhengzhou Markets). Technical and legal advice was separately sought from the Chicago
Board of Trade.

(7)      Training and TA (3.4% of total project cost at appraisal). A key feature of the project would be
the introduction of bulk grain handling and storage technology. Since China had limited first hand
experience with this technology, the project would include a large training and technical assistance
component. Over 600 staff-months of internationally recruited technical assistance was to be provided, and
a sizeable portion of this would serve as counterparts to national engineers. Most training was to be
provided domestically through on-going and specially created training programs developed at local training
colleges (including those in Nanjing and Zhengzhou, for which computer centers were to be established).
In addition, much of the equipment procurement would include operation and maintenance training.
Supplemented by special grant funding, an additional amount of international management training would
be available.

3.4 Revised Components:
With one very major exception, the project components remained substantially the same throughout the
project with only modest changes in cost allocations. The major exception was the relocation and
reformulation of the Northeast Corridor Port component. Irreconcilable differences in ownership
composition, asset contribution, and management of the proposed Dayao Bay Terminal resulted in the
eventual relocation and development of the Dalian Port Terminal to Xizui. Concurrent with this relocation,
the management of the Bayuguan Terminal withdrew from the project. Consequently, operations of Dayao
Bay and Bayuguan terminals were combined into a single nearby operation at Xizui. Since the Xizui Grain
Terminal was an entirely new port, this switch in location facilitated the resolution of ownership and
management control. However, the switch also involved increased costs of at least Y300 million (US$37
million) for a breakwater, dredging, railway access, and the resettlement of 83 farm and fishing village
households.

There were two other minor changes during project implementation. First, in the Yangtze River Corridor,
the componsition and number of vessels changed. The originally planned 10 bulk barges were reduced to 4
self-propelled coastal vessels to increase transport flexibility. Second, in the Market Services component,
the project only provided assistance to the Shanghai Grains and Oils Exchange. Following an internal
review, the government proposed that no further Bank assistance was necessary for commodity exchanges.
This decision was in part based on the proliferation (without external assistance) of commodity futures
markets in the early 1990s. Unfortunately, the regulatory and control framework developed less rapidly
than did the physical and financial aspects. Subsequently, trading anomalies were alleged and the
Government discontinued trading in several commodities and various futures exchanges were consolidated.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory. The project concept was well developed and understood and the
project incorporated lessons learned from other grain handling and storage projects. The Bank's safeguard



                                                      - 4 -

policies on resettlement and environmental impact were adequately addressed and incorporated into project
design. However, at the time of entry, (a) depot and terminal designs were at a preliminary stage of
preparation, and (b) ownership and management arrangements for the Dayao Bay port terminal had been
agreed on paper but were in fact quite problematic and unresolved. Consequently, there was a substantial
delay in initial project implementation while civil and mechanical design work was undertaken and the
Dayao Bay port terminal management and ownership issue unfolded. The Bank and the Borrower should
have done more to resolve these problems during preparation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Project objectives were substantially achieved and the project outcome is rated satisfactory. The consensus
of the project task team is that this was a good project, and might have been a great project considering the
key role that it played in transitioning China from bag to bulk grain handling, but that it would have
required a stronger project management system and more intensive supervision and implementation support
from the World Bank (see Sections 5.2, 5.3 and 7.2 below) in order to reach its full potential. Grain sector
reforms were substantial over the life of the project, and the project (and, in particular, the project
preparation process) contributed to the design and implementation of these reforms. Project success was
greatest in the introduction of bulk grain handling logistical networks and modern infrastructure. These
improved networks and new infrastructure have been very successful and have greatly improved marketing
efficiency. As discussed below in Section 4.2, this is particularly the case in the Northeast Corridor.

Policy Reform. Significant grain sector reforms and liberalization occurred during project preparation and
implementation. All of the major grain sector reforms of the 1990s are summarized in Annex 2 of the
project SAR "Program for Grain Marketing Reform in China" (signed by Vice-Minister Bai Meiqing), and
the large scale of the project provided important support for the realization of these reforms during the
project preparation period. In particular, (a) grain prices at all levels have been deregulated and grain
markets (including the export market) have been liberalized, and (b) government involvement and
intervention in the grain sector has been reduced (primarily) to the operation of a grain reserve and
establishing producer floor prices. Progress in the development of financial markets (forward trading and
futures) was discontinuous and futures trading in several commodities (including grains) were suspended in
the late 1990s. During this time, futures markets were consolidated and trading safeguards were
strengthened, and trading in major commodities was subsequently revived.

The project's support for policy reform was greatest during the preparation period, and two key factors
constrained the project from becoming an important platform for grain policy dialogue and reform during
implementation. First, the implementing agency was in a near continual state of restructuring during the
entire period of implementation, and this hampered grain policy dialogue. The Central Project
Management Office (CPMO, known as "FCMO" -- the Foreign Capital Management Office) was initially
located within the Ministry of Commerce (MOC). In 1993, MOC was consolidated into the Ministry of
Domestic Trade (MDT). In 1997, MDT was eliminated and the State Grain Reserve Administration
subsequently became the parent of the CPMO. In 2000, the National Administration of Grain took charge
of grain policy implementation, and the CPMO was essentially orphaned. (At that point, the Bank insisted
that the CPMO at least be maintained in order to manage final project implementation and liaise with Bank
supervision missions.) While much of this restructuring made sense for national grain policy
implementation, it contributed to a steady dilution of the Bank's dialogue on grain policy reform through the
project. Second, and more importantly, the Bank's supervision effort was overwhelmingly concentrated on
keeping up with the enormous demands of the technology transformation embodied in the project. Bank
supervision necessarily focused on the engineering and procurement requirements of this enormous project



                                                     - 5 -

and, due to budget constraints, relatively limited resources were directed toward grain policy reform
dialogue.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(1)      Northeast Corridor - Dalian Port Terminals ($214.2 million SAR, $301.9 million actual
including bulk rail wagons). The component is rated satisfactory. In addition to the completion delay
caused by the switch from Dayao Bay to Xizui, two other factors further delayed completion. First, the
ICB bidding for the main mechanical and electrical contract (worth about $70.7 million) failed on its first
try and had to be rebid. Second, there were serious contract disputes with the major mechanical and
electrical contractor. Though the contract disputes were eventually resolved through adjudication, the
process left the terminal short of some of the anticipated amenities of a fully automated modern terminal at
the time of project completion. However, all of the necessary elements for safe operation were eventually
implemented. In addition, there was a fire and explosion at the Xizui Grain Terminal in late-2001 caused
by unsafe welding practices. Ten workers suffered minor injuries and there was some modest damage to
the facility. This experience dramatically confirmed that safety, dust control, and operational management
procedures at the Xizui Grain Terminal were not adequate, and the Bank required the preparation and
immediate execution of a special "Fire and Explosion Prevention Action Plan." Follow-up on this Action
Plan has been very strong, and all of these difficulties have been largely overcome. The Xizui Grain
Terminal is now the largest and most modern grain terminal in Northeast Asia. The State Grain
Administration has added 600,000 tons of "squat silo" storage to utilize the other terminal infrastructure
including transportation connections.

(2)      Northeast Corridor - Hinterland ($540.8 million SAR, $385.3 million actual). The component
is rated satisfactory. All project sites, including 59 IDs and 279 PDs, were developed and all sites have
become operational. In the implementation process a few useful items (including weighbridges, truck hoists,
and other items) were not procured at some sites due to budget shortfalls or equipment price increases.
Since becoming operational, some of these omissions have had efficiency impacts (particularly at full
capacity operation) and supplementary financing is being obtained to procure these omitted items. As the
IDs became operational, managers very quickly found bulk grain handling to be more efficient and
preferable to bag shipment, and have fully utilized the 1,486 bulk rail wagons procured with project
financing.

(3)      Yangtze River Corridor ($121.1 million SAR, $113.7 million actual). The component is rated
satisfactory. All physical targets were completed early in the project period and the infrastructure has been
in use for some time. However, the various terminals have had uneven success. The river mouth terminals
have enjoyed considerable throughput and have further expanded their facilities. On the other hand, the
upriver transfer wharves have not experienced the anticipated corn throughput, primarily because of
changes in rail freight operations and rates that have made rail shipments from the northeast more flexible
and financially preferable.

(4)      Southwest Corridor ($49.8 million SAR, $45.0 million actual). The component is rated
satisfactory. Despite some early engineering difficulties, all of the terminals and IDs have become
operational. However, corn throughput has suffered for the same reasons as in the Yangtze River Corridor
and severe price competition for reduced wheat inflows has diverted imports to other Southwest ports. The
terminal is trying to achieve profitability by diversifying to other dry-bulk products. The substitution of a
"grab crane" for a continuous grain unloader has simplified their diversification efforts.

(5)      Beijing Central Depot ($25.0 million SAR, $18.8 million actual). The component is rated
satisfactory and all planned facilities have been installed. This was the smallest of the "grain corridors" and


                                                       - 6 -

was the first to be completed. The depot is operational and, in addition, is the site of 150,000 tons of State
Grain Administration strategic grain reserve storage which utilizes other project-financed infrastructure.

(6)       Market Services ($6.5 million SAR, $4.8 million actual). The component is rated satisfactory.
Continued liberalization of the grain sector has resulted in privatization of the Grain Information Center. It
still offers some public goods in terms of grain price information provided to the news media, but otherwise
sells its services to private clients (including "special studies" on various grains and vegetable oils). The
project anticipated investments in two grain futures markets, but as the markets developed, the government
concluded that one grain futures market (the one in Shanghai) was sufficient. After some alleged trading
aberrations, grain futures trading was suspended and futures trading generally was consolidated.

(7)       Training and TA ($33.9 million SAR, $52.1 million actual). This component is rated
satisfactory. The smaller component activity of the two Training Centers was reasonably satisfactory. The
two existing Training Centers were expanded and improved and provided with computer networks. The
Centers developed and offered several technical grain engineering courses, as well as courses in finance and
management. Several hundred participants have attended the technical courses. However, the other and
much larger component activity of international Technical Assistance (TA) was extremely problematic.
Supplemented by Australian, British, Canadian, Dutch, French and other Grants and Trust Funds, there
was a total of more than 600 staff months of international TA. Particularly during the early stages of
project implementation, there was tremendous resistance to this TA. For example, the TA provided to the
Central PMO by FAO and a British firm to improve project management capability was poorly received
and largely ineffective. Much of the international TA provided to the individual project corridors by
international consulting engineering firms was also heavily resisted during the early years of the project.
Most importantly, international technical assistance for corn driers, dust control and explosion proofing,
design efficiency and flexibility, construction quality, operations management and safety requirements, and
other key aspects was often ignored or actively resisted. There were several reasons for the initially poor
uptake of the international TA. In addition to the considerable language barrier, it was also difficult for the
national Design Institutes to accommodate the large gap between their knowledge base and standard
practices and established international technologies. Handicapped by inadequate funding, the Central PMO
may simply not have been able to absorb the TA offered by the FAO and British advisors. There may also
have been the suspicion that foreign advisors were only interested in establishing new markets for foreign
equipment. Conversely, in some instances it seems that inferior technologies were included in the project in
order to direct contracts to national equipment manufacturers. Finally, the initial uncertainty over the
ownership and management of the Dalian Port Terminal certainly resulted in a near complete roadblock to
effective international TA. However, while there was considerable frustration and many delays along the
way, resistance to the international TA gradually subsided over time and the capacity of national
engineering experts strengthened. By the end, it was clear that the international TA did play a key role in a
technology transfer of historic proportion.

(8)       Resettlement. At the time of appraisal a few small land purchases were expected at several sites
to permit facility expansion. Only at one project site (namely, the Qingshan Terminal) in Wuhan was
resettlement anticipated. However, when the location of the Dalian Terminal was switched from the already
developed Dayao Bay Port to Xizui, resettlement of a fishing village and two farming villages became
necessary. Resettlement at Wuhan was relatively simple as many of those relocated worked for the
Terminal, and only 7 of the 40.6 mu acquired were cultivated. Resettlement was more complex at Xizui
since (a) it was a new terminal with no existing employees, and (b) some of the land and sea areas acquired
for terminal operations were either cultivated or aquatically farmed. Also, construction of the rail line and
harbor road required the relocation of a few small enterprises. Site visits and the Resettlement Completion
Reports confirmed that (a) per capita incomes in both areas (which were higher than the national average


                                                       - 7 -

prior to resettlement) increased much more rapidly than the national average following resettlement, (b)
resettlement procedures and compensation observed standard Government procedures and satisfied World
Bank procedures and policies, and (c) those resettled enjoyed superior infrastructure services (water,
electricity, sewerage, etc.) and home living spaces increased. Some details are contained in the following
table.

                                        Resettlement Conditions
                                              Xizui                             Wuhan
Land Acquired                              1123 mu                             40.7 mu

Households Relocated                              83                                56
Household members                               239                                245

Total Cost                              84.2 million Yuan                  10.3 million Yuan
(Note: 1 hectare = 15 mu)

(9)      Procurement. Procurement during the project was an evolving process. Initially the project
management team, responsible for procurement processing of NCB contracts, and the international
tendering companies (ITCs), the quasi-independent procurement agencies charged with carrying out
procurement processing of ICB contracts, were relatively inexperienced in World Bank procurement
procedures. The large number of contracts associated with the project resulted in a steep learning curve for
these agencies and necessitated close and detailed supervision by the Bank's project team. Delays inevitably
occurred because of the lengthy and multiple reviews necessary to ensure acceptable documents. In
addition, because of the inexperience of national engineers in the new technologies being introduced,
specifications often had to be heavily edited and this required more time and international technical
assistance. In order to strengthen basic construction and equipment quality, improve designs, and
guarantee basic operational functionality and safety requirements, the Bank's consultant specialists played
a significant role in providing this technical assistance. The publication, in 1997, of the suite of Chinese
Model Bidding Documents, agreed between the Bank and MOF for use on ICB and NCB procurement, and
the growing experience of the project management and ITCs in the Bank's procurement procedures,
resulted in faster processing of documents and award decisions in the later phases of the project.

In one major way, the project did suffer from the rigidities of the Bank's procurement procedures. Much of
the specialized equipment needed for the outlying country grain depots was available from both national
and international manufacturers. Although nominally meeting the specifications for the equipment, many of
the national manufacturers produced equipment which was of poor quality and had a short lifespan, at a
cost well below that of the more reliable manufacturers. Awarding to the lowest evaluated bidders
sometimes resulted in the installation of equipment that was poor value for money and would have to be
replaced in a short time.

As a matter of public policy, the large number of individual civil works components­ ports, intermediate
grain depots (IDs) and primary depots (PDs) - and the mechanical and electrical grain handling equipment
needed to modernize them, were contracted on an individual basis to relatively small and inexperienced
contractors and suppliers. This resulted in wide variations in quality, much of which was barely acceptable
and some of which was unacceptable in terms of dust control and explosion proofing. While Bank
supervision missions tried to correct as many of the faults as could be detected in the small sample of sites
visited, the quality and safety of the remainder of the sites could not be verified. The implementing
agency's supervision was also inadequate because (a) of funding constraints, and (b) many of the personnel



                                                      - 8 -

lacked the necessary experience in modern grain handling techniques. From a procurement point of view, as
well as that of quality and safety, it would have been better and more efficient to have bundled these sites
into relatively few, much larger contracts that would have been let to more experienced large contractors
both national and international. This way it would have been easier to retain more control over quality.
Although it might have been resisted by the many separate Provincial Grain Bureaus involved in project
implementation, a considerable degree of bundling would have been possible in each of the project's main
corridors.

(10)     Construction and Equipment Quality, and Operational Safety and Efficiency. Much of the
Bank's supervision effort was focused on guaranteeing basic operational functionality and safety
requirements, improving designs to achieve greater efficiency and flexibility, and strengthening basic
construction and equipment quality. While there was initial resistance to much of this technology transfer
(see Section 4.2 Item 7), the Bank team's persistent emphasis on basic technical adequacy, operational cost
effectiveness and functionality, and safety standards contributed to a number of significant advances. The
key technical areas where significant contributions were made include:

        l introduction of rational planning methods to optimize storage sizes, handling rates, drying
             capacity, and transportation
        l introduction of flat-bottomed, large diameter, concrete storage tanks, suitable for mechanical
             handling, and related layouts
        l development of mechanical and electrical technical specifications to suit modern grain handling
             methods and flow sheets
        l utilization of explosion proofing and dust control systems
        l improving construction, manufacturing, and installation quality
        l improving the quality of dryers and other specialized equipment
        l design of ports for operational flexibility and potential future growth
        l training programs and manuals for operations and maintenance

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The estimated economic rate of return for the Northeast Corridor is 12.2 percent. This is about one half
of the appraisal estimate, and several factors explain the reduced rate of return. The following several
factors reduced the estimated benefits accruing to the Northeast Corridor: (a) external investments at the
Dayao Port (through the Singapore Port Authority Joint Venture) increased capacity and reduced ship
waiting time (although the port remains congested, this somewhat reduced the benefits from the Northeast
Corridor Port investments), (b) the assumption that, without the project, improvements would have been
made in grain ship loading and unloading, thereby reducing ship servicing times and the amount of freed
berth capacity, (c) actual benefits from reduced spillage losses are believed to be about one half of the rate
anticipated at appraisal, (d) actual labor and handling savings are slightly lower than initially estimated,
and (e) an increase in medium sized dry-bulk vessels in the Pacific region increased shipping competition
and reduced differential ocean freight rates thereby reducing the international transport savings from using
the larger vessels. Although the appraisal cost estimates (US$755.5 million) for the Northeast Corridor
exceed the actual costs (US$691.2 million), the ICR rate of return analysis costs include the (a) the
post-project investments in bulk rail wagons (since these investments were necessary to permit capacity
corridor operations), and (b) Technical Assistance and Training costs. However, the ICR rate of return
estimate should be considered to be conservative since some benefits typically included in port projects
were excluded. These excluded benefits are the cargo time-savings (interest opportunity cost) for both the
grain and other general cargoes. Furthermore, an exceptionally important benefit, and one of the project's
central objectives, cannot be quantified. The large scale introduction of new technologies -- including the
switch from bag to bulk grain handling -- is a national benefit achieved in large part through the extensive



                                                     - 9 -

use of internationally recruited technical assistance and training. These technologies have now been widely
adopted by both individual grain enterprises and by the State Grain Reserve Administration in their
expansion programs.

Insufficient data precluded the calculation of economic rates of return for the other project corridors. The
expected benefits in the upriver portion of the Yangtze River Corridor have not accrued, largely because
reductions in rail costs from the Northeast has, contrary to other country experiences, made water transport
as costly as rail. On the other hand, the river mouth terminals have enjoyed substantial benefits and are
expanding their operations to service nearby areas. For the Southwest Corridor, the decline in wheat
imports, inceased port competition, and the reduced rail costs for internal corn flows resulted in reduced
levels of benefits. However, through the handling of alternative bulk materials, the Fangcheng Port
Terminal appears to be breaking even on a financial basis. The Beijing Central Depot has done very well
financially as the three former depot sites in the central city have been sold for upscale activities (including
supermarkets and apartment buildings) and the Depot has become an important storage terminal for the
State Grain Reserve Administration. Unfortunately, accounting data are not sufficient to allow the
separation of project and non-project benefits for the Beijing Central Depot.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return were not calculated at appraisal, and none were they estimated for the ICR. Since
most of the project costs and benefits are subject to market prices, the economic rate of return is believed to
be a rough proxy of the financial rate of return. In addition, it has been noted that a number of the project's
major Port Terminals and IDs are reporting that they have achieved profitability or are at least breaking
even.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated substantial. Government administrative reform, combined
with grain sector reform and liberalization, has had significant impacts on project entities. The Ministry of
Domestic Trade, which largely managed the grain sector at the time of project appraisal, no longer exists.
Many of MDT's former tasks and functions have also been eliminated. Reform has meant that project
entities, which formerly could rely on government for budgetary support, are now self-reliant and
responsible for generating cash flows to pay debts and finance operations. Although there was sometimes
strong resistance to modern bulk grain handling technologies during the first years of the project, this
resistance was eventually overcome and the project's most important institutional development impact has
been the transfer of bulk grain handling technology. The Domestic Design Institutes, now self-reliant, have
been exposed to modern high-speed, bulk grain logistics and are now largely capable of incorporating these
features into designs for new facilities. The technology transfer aspect of the project has been imminently
successful as modern logistics techniques have been incorporated into all subsequent facilities constructed
for the State Grain Administration.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside the control of government and the implementing agency had relatively little impact on the
project implementation and outcome. One significant such event was the allegation that the bidder awarded
the mechanical ship unloader contract for the Xizui Grain Terminal had submitted falsified qualifications.
Upon confirmation that the supplier's experience was misrepresented, the Bank suspended the contract,
reviewed the circumstances, and determined that, since the remaining original bidders agreed to maintain
their bid prices, the next lowest evaluated bidder could be awarded the contract. However, the process of
review, confirmation of the allegation of misrepresentation, second Bid Evaluation Review, and subsequent
contract award resulted in a construction delay of approximately one year.


                                                      - 10 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
With some significant exceptions, the influence of factors subject to government control was favorable.
Most importantly, the government remained supportive of the project and was quite active in maintaining
the original content of the project when it appeared some provinces might decline to continue project
participation. In addition, the switch in the location of the Dalian port terminal from Dayao Bay to Xizui
involved significant additional investments as an entirely new port had to be developed. The government
played the key role in overcoming this critical roadblock to project implementation by authorizing the
switch in location and providing the necessary incremental financing.

However, some government actions may have had a negative impact on project implementation and
outcome. First, the project Special Account was located under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance
instead of under the control of the Central PMO. This almost certainly undermined the Central PMO's
control of the project. In addition, while the processing of domestic payments and submission of
withdrawal applications did not seriously impact project implementation, the process would likely have
been more expeditious had the Special Account been under the control of the Central PMO. Second, the
clearance process for engineering designs was unduly laborious, time consuming, and inefficient. Designs
were submitted to the China International Engineering Consulting Corporation (CIECC) for clearance,
and this process often required several weeks or longer to accomplish. Only after CIECC clearance could
the designs be forwarded to the World Bank for its review and "no objection." While the government's
review identified and corrected many design defects and omissions, many others problems were not
discovered or corrected. Review by the Bank's engineering consultant frequently found design flaws or
inconsistencies which should have been captured and corrected prior to submission. The Bank would then
notify the project management office of revisions necessary before a "no objection" could be issued, and
this would of course further extend the clearance process. As discussed in Section 5.3 below, it would have
been more efficient to employ sufficient engineers in the Central PMO (who would be closely familiar with
the project scope and the role, size, and requirements of each site) to review and clear designs. Third, while
overall project financing was forthcoming, the release of funds locally was occasionally delayed and
affected timely construction and implementation of project facilities.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors subject to implementing agency control had very little effect on project implementation and
outcome. The Central PMO was inadequately budgeted and staffed to manage a project of this magnitude,
and this adversely affected project implementation and outcome. First, a much larger engineering staff
should have been maintained, with adequate budget to (a) thoroughly review engineering designs, (b)
regularly visit project sites to ensure standards were met, and (c) provide technical advice to local field
engineers. Second, the implementation office lacked clear implementation authority. However, it is
believed these two problems were not subject to the implementing agency's control. Instead, the Central
PMO tried to do the best it could with the funding available and, lacking true authority, is to be
complimented for its ability to implement the project primarily by persuasion.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Actual project costs were US$921.6 million. This amount includes funds from the World Bank Loan and
Credit, government counterpart funds, plus US$6.1 million for the Xizui breakwater (which was procured
using Government guidelines). Government has also committed about US$30 million for the procurement
of an additional 900 bulk rail wagons, but this amount is not included in the total actual costs figure.
Actual costs were about US$70 million (or 7 percent) less than appraisal estimates. This cost underrun is
explained primarily by the (a) devaluation of the Yuan during project implementation, and (b) forced
reduction in expenditure on the Northeast Corridor Hinterland. These two cost underrun factors were



                                                      - 11 -

largely offset by the large cost overrun for the Northeast Corridor Ports component. As discussed in
Section 4.2 above, some useful items in the Northeast Corridor Hinterland were not procured due to
government budget constraints. Most significantly, about 1000 bulk grain trucks were not procured (since
it was determined that sufficient trucks were commercially available for hire), and this reduced actual costs
by about US$34 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability in the Northeast Corridor (both the Port Terminal and the Hinterland) is rated highly
likely. Many of the Northeast Hinterland IDs have reported profitability after only a few months of
operating the new bulk facilities. In addition, although still operating substantially below capacity, the
Xizui Port Terminal also reports profitability (though this may be due, in part, to storage operations for the
State Grain Administration which were not covered under the project). Although the product inflows and
outflows through Xizui are not exactly as anticipated at appraisal, the Terminal was designed to have
considerable operational flexibility, and Terminal management has been aggressive in identifying and
exploiting import and export opportunities. The rapid development of the livestock industry has resulted in
soybean imports (in contrast to soybean exports anticipated at appraisal). These imports are mostly being
handled by the Xizui Port Terminal due to its efficient bulk unloading capacity. Minor quantities of other
dry-bulk commodities also have been imported through Xizui and small volumes of bagged top soil have
been exported to Hong Kong.

Similarly, sustainability of the Beijing Central Depot is rated highly likely. Although linked by rail shuttle
with the Tianjin Port, its sustainability is not dependent on imported and exported grain. Instead, it's
function is to service the Beijing area with food grains and to be a transshipment terminal for bulk feed
grains regardless of whether imported or domestically produced.

Sustainability of the river mouth terminals of the Yangtze River Corridor is also rated highly likely since
port throughput has been greater than project appraisal estimates. However, the cost of shipping maize
from the Northeast to the areas served by the upstream terminals is now similar for both rail and water, and
a portion of this market has been assumed by rail traffic. Therefore, these terminals have diversified and
now handle several bulk materials in addition to grain. Some of the upstream terminals now report
profitability. However, upstream terminal sustainability will likely depend upon whether they can exploit
diversification options and/or provide grain-handling logistics that are superior to rail services at similar
unit costs.

Sustainability of the Southwest Corridor facilities is uncertain. China's wheat imports have been
substantially below levels anticipated at appraisal. However, following full WTO integration, wheat
imports are expected to return to their levels of the mid- and late-1990s. To date, soybeans have comprised
the principal grain handled at the Fangcheng Terminal. These soybeans are for local crushing (that is, they
are not transported through the inland corridor), and commodity handling has been diversified to alternative
dry-bulk commodities. The Terminal could be self-sustaining by handling other dry-bulk commodities,
though this would not benefit the Southwest Corridor facilities. For the Southwest Corridor to be
sustainable, the Fangcheng Port Terminal will need to offer more competitive rates and improve efficiency.

The market services component sustainability varies by element. The Grain Information Center has proven
its sustainability in the liberalized `free market' environment. The reintroduction of a corn futures market,
as is under discussion, should be sustainable as the previous closure was due to alleged irregularities, not
market volume. For the Technical Training Center at Zhengzhou, there has been reasonable demand for



                                                      - 12 -

their training services by the market-oriented grain agencies and the Center's leadership has been
aggressive in searching out additional training opportunities. Lastly, it appears that the Management
Training Center at Nanjing likely will not be self-sustaining and will probably be integrated into the
Nanjing Institute of Economics.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has continued to liberalize the grain sector, and there are no expectations of reversal.
During project implementation, project entities were advised that, consistent with the reform program, they
would be financially independent and responsible for their own profits and losses. Nevertheless, consistent
with arrangements made during implementation to encourage full provincial participation in the project,
Government has assumed responsibility for repaying a portion of the project debt of the Intermediate
Depots.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory, though there was weakness in some areas. Most
importantly, building on the strong analytical base of preceding sector strategy research work, the project
composition and design was consistent with the Government and the Bank's strategies to liberalize the
grain sector and introduce modern logistical infrastructure into grain marketing. The project focused on
grain flows and shipments instead of on storage. A review of previous Bank financed grain marketing
projects had shown that an excessive focus on grain storage was a common weakness of previous such
projects. Transportation was correctly identified as the primary constraint to corn marketing in the
Northeast Corridor, and project investments were correctly focussed on this constraint. Second, the lack of
national experience with bulk grain logistical systems resulted in strong Bank TA support in project
preparation. Several of the world's best grain-handling engineers were engaged in project preparation,
financed in large part by various Country Trust Funds. Third, the Bank's preappraisal and appraisal
performance is also rated satisfactory. The Bank's preappraisal and appraisal team comprised 10 Bank
staff and 21 technical consultants, which was consistent with the multicomponent nature and wide
geographic dispersion of the project.

There were also some weaknesses in the Bank's preparation effort. First, while a large amount of
preparation work was undertaken prior to appraisal in terms of analyzing grain production, marketing
flows, and equipment requirements and their costs, there was insufficient time to prepare and agree on
preliminary engineering designs. It was decided to proceed with the project and complete the preliminary
design work during the early implementation period. Unfortunately, the obstacles to completing acceptable
preliminary designs were far more substantial than had been anticipated (see Section 4.2 Item 7 above).
Second, in the case of the Dalian Port, it was thought that management and ownership arrangements had
been adequately finalized. In fact, management and ownership arrangements were not clear, and this
uncertainty severely affected initial project implementation. Third, it was the Task Team's view that
project implementation would require eight years, not six years as indicated in the SAR. However, it was
decided to retain the standard six year implementation period since a longer implementation period was
considered unacceptable at that time, and the alternative of splitting the project into two periods was
rejected due to fears that this would undermine Government support for the project. (Actual
implementation did require the full eight years expected by the Task Team.)

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision effort is rated satisfactory. However, it is believed that the Bank's supervision
support should have been even more substantial given the exceptional size and complexity of the project,



                                                     - 13 -

the lack of national engineers' familiarity with the technologies to be introduced, and the failure to complete
the preparation of preliminary designs prior to implementation. None of the Bank staff member responsible
for project supervision had grain engineering expertise. Instead, all engineering aspects of the project were
supervised by consultants. Fortunately, it was possible to recruit several excellent engineering consultants
who supported Bank supervision work during the entire period of project implementation. Through
extensive use of Grants and Consultant Trust Funds and the Bank's own supervision budget, it was
possible to finance the necessary desk reviews of designs, field supervision of construction, and monitor the
incorporation of adequate safety measures. Twenty-one supervision missions were conducted over the life
of the project. The first six supervision missions were staffed by an average of six members, which was
consistent with the large amount of preparation work which remained to be undertaken. Subsequent
missions averaged only three members. Although there were a large number of supervision missions, it is
believed that supervision frequency and staffing were insufficient, and most project sites were never visited
by Bank missions. Nevertheless, supervision staff developed close professional relationships with project
staff and contributed substantially to successful project implementation through interventions with
Government, identification of several major safety and operational deficiencies (assurances were obtained
these deficiencies would be corrected, but insufficient budgets prohibited adequate follow-up), explanations
of and advice on new technologies, and field assistance in solving procurement and implementation
problems. It is believed that project supervision would have been significantly more effective had the Task
Team included one full-time engineer. Second, since the Bank supervision team had to focus most or all of
its resources on the engineering and safety aspects, procurement issues, and management constraints of this
massive infrastructure project, there was simply very little time left to support the project's policy reform
objectives. While much of the policy reform agenda was achieved during the period of initial project
implementation, it was unfortunate that the task team did not have the time or resources to support and
follow-up on the evolution of the policy reforms.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The project met a strong need, particularly in the
Northeast, and the Bank team played a vital role in assisting project preparation. However, the enormous
scale of the project and its importance to the technical transformation and policy reform of China's grain
sector should have merited a greater allocation of Bank supervision resources. In addition, it could be
argued that the Bank did not adequately support the international technical assistance required for this large
scale engineering project. However, it is certainly true that the Bank task team made heroic efforts to
support the international technical assistance program in the face of strong resistance (particularly during
the early years of project implementation; see Section 4.2 Item 7 above). On balance, the Bank did what
was necessary to provide sufficient international technical assistance and, by the time of project
completion, technical adequacy had been largely achieved.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Considering that the project was introducing a new technology to China and that it was difficult for
national design engineers to incorporate these unfamiliar technologies, borrower preparation is rated
satisfactory. The project concept was sound and grain sector reform, necessary for project success, was
well underway. The SAR (Annex 2) included a rough blueprint outlining continued sector reform. The
Government committed considerable resources to preparation primarily involving staff of national Design
Institutes who assisted in developing the corridor concept and would subsequently be responsible for
developing the preliminary and detailed designs for the individual project sites. However, Government
would have done well had it required that the preliminary designs be completed prior to Board Presentation
(this would have saved it considerable sums in commitment fees and improved the project's rate of return).
Further, Government incorrectly represented that the ownership and management structure for the Dalian



                                                      - 14 -

Port Terminal had been resolved. This error resulted in a lengthy delay in the start up and completion of
the Northeast Corridor.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. There were delays in implementation
progress caused by the lack of timely budget releases and by inadequate design reviews. For example, the
curtailment of budget releases in 2000 adversely affected smooth project implementation. Design reviews
sometimes created delays without adding value, and were a bureaucratic hindrance to efficient
implementation. The Government also undermined the authority and capability of the project's Central
PMO by (a) locating the Special Account outside of the Central PMO, and (b) providing inadequate
funding for the operations of the Central PMO. However, after factoring in these delays and other
problems, implementation progress was acceptable.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing Agency performance also is rated satisfactory. This rating is based primarily on the fact that,
despite the aforementioned inadequate authority, budget and engineering staff (see Sections 5.2 and 5.3
above) to appropriately monitor and supervise project implementation at 348 sites scattered over thirteen
provinces and municipalities, the Central PMO was able to guide implementation to a successful
conclusion and outcome.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The lack of prior design work and the relocation of the
Dalian port terminal resulted in more time required for project implementation than was allocated in the
Development Credit Agreement. The project closing date was extended twice. The first extension was for
two years and was necessary in order to complete the engineering works at the relocated Dalian port
terminal and finish all works within the Northeast Corridor Hinterland. A second extension of six months
became necessary following an unresolved dispute between the owners of the Xizui Port Terminal and the
primary contractor (this lengthy dispute was eventually resolved through adjudication). Despite these and
other difficulties, the Borrower remained committed to the project concept, eventually overcame most of the
significant problems, and played a key role in a successful project.

8. Lessons Learned

l The project demonstrated the economic and technical feasibility of grain marketing investments when
    the objective is moving, not storing, grain. By comparison, previous Bank financed grain projects
    which have focused more on grain storage have had relatively poor returns.

l There would have been significant advantages to having completed key portions of the preliminary
    design work prior to Board presentation. First, the project implementation period would have been
    substantially reduced had key preliminary design work been completed during the preparation phase.
    Second, the process of completing the preliminary design work would have highlighted the fact that
    management and ownership arrangements for the Dalian Terminal had not been adequately resolved.
    Third, all those involved in the project would have better understood the magnitude of the engineering
    challenge and depth of the technology transfer.

l To ensure adequate supervision, projects approaching this magnitude (almost 400 sites and a total
    investment of about US$1 billion) and complexity require above average supervision resources. In
    addition to increased resources, the magnitude of the engineering challenge of this massive project
    required that the Bank task team include at least one full time engineer. With increased resources for
    supervision work, the Task Team would have been in a better position to both (a) meet the engineering


                                                    - 15 -

    and operational challenges of the project, while (b) maintaining the grain sector policy reform dialogue.

l The Central PMO should and must play a vital role in the implementation of complex national-level
    projects, and sufficient funding and authority should be provided to the Central PMO to allow it to
    undertake this key leadership function. In this case, the Central PMO was inadequately funded and did
    not have sufficient authority to undertake the project. Under these circumstances, it is remarkable that
    the Central PMO was able to do such an effective job of managing project implementation.

l Although the final outcome was strongly favorable and the technology transfer was profound, the
    Bank's influence over this crucial engineering process was haphazard and uncertain. Most critically,
    such a massive engineering undertaking requires adequate international technical assistance. Although
    this TA was in fact budgeted in the SAR and did take place during implementation, there was
    considerable initial resistance in the early years of project implementation to (a) using project funds for
    this purpose, and (b) to the actual content of the TA. The Bank's ability to require adequate and
    competent engineering on a continuous basis was not sufficient, and quality control and operational
    effectiveness of the project facilities was compromised in the first years of project implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The project directly benefits 900 million farmers and 300 million urban citizens in grain production and
consumption respectively, as an infrastructure project, it is called by people "China's Food Project". The
implementation pushed forward the market oriented reform of China's grain distribution and marketing
system, triggered the modernization of grain handling technology, solving the problem of open air grain
storage in the Northeast, and laid down a solid physical foundation for China's entry of the WTO and
opening up of grain market. Before the project, 70% of the grain in the Northeast was stored in open air,
90% of grain was handled in bags manually. After the project, all Northeast grain are stored in proper
storage and 70% of the grain is now handled in mechanized and automated manner.

The project is implemented through the collaboration between Chinese and International technical expert
hired by the government and the Bank, who have, on the basis of overall analysis of the current situation
and project of China's grain distribution and marketing, scientifically planned and designed Northeast,
Yangtze, Southwest and Beijing-Tianjin grain corridors. The 8 port terminals , 64 IDs, 161 PDs, 7 service
components, and the transportation equipment of rail hopper wagons, vessels and trucks, have all been
completed, the project has met its original objectives, forming 4.35 million tons of modernized storage and
annual transfer capacity of 18 million tons, achieving a saving of 55.48 yuan per ton in handling cost, the
benefits are significant. For example, the project grain terminal at Dalian has 1.3 million tons of bulk
storage, 5 berths with varied sizes of 20,000 to 80,000DWT, capable of annual throughput of 12 million
tons. Since the completion and trial operation, total throughput has reached 12.59 million tons, with the
flow amounts increasing year by year, the flow from January to May 2003 has reached 3.736 million tons.
1883 wagons procured under the project could not meet the demand. This component will soon reach and
excess its designed capacity.

The major difficulties faced: some local government were reluctant to undertake the debt, causing
suspension of project; Relocation of the Dalian grain terminal caused delays. These issues were overcome
by the government preferential policies of providing addition 1 billion yuan free funds, repayment of 60%
of Bank financing, subsidies on domestic loans and tax exemptions, and the coordination efforts of the
Project Coordination Leading Group.




                                                     - 16 -

The experiences of the project: good advance planning; adoption of advanced technology; Support of the
Bank and government; strictly following the Bank procurement guidelines; effective control of quality and
supervision; full collaboration with international consultants.

Major lessons learned: big project involving many different regions and sectors is hard implement; there are
too many project sites, not convenient for management and control; the power of the implementation agency
should not be undercut, it must have overall control over planning, financing, technology and management;
the debt and repayment issues must be agreed upon beforehand; the various clearance procedures of the
Bank should be greatly simplified.

Problems to be solved after the project is over: (1) making complete facilities operate and generate profit;
(2) further government investment to optimize the grain distribution network; (3) continuous management
and technical training for the operators; (4) optimization of the project E-Business and information system;
(5) the connection and merge of domestic and international grain markets.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None

10. Additional Information

None




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Liberalization of grain procurement and       Ration coupons were eliminated and retail     Same as last PSR. Grain procurement and
marketing                                     shops commercialized. Farm level grain        marketing liberalization is now very advanced.
                                              procurement and wholesaling initially         The new (2003) Chinese Government is
                                              liberalized, but farm level procurement was   actively considering national adoption of the
                                              subsequently re-monopolized (however, this    next significant steps of reform of the grain
                                              is no longer enforced).                       sector.

                                              Subsidies initially declined, but pricing and
                                              marketing policy changes in 1998 resulted in
                                              increased government procurement, storage,
                                              and cost subsidies.

Establishment of grain marketing training     The Grain Marketing Training Centers were     Same as last PSR. The project supported
centers, national market information          established, laboratories were equipped with only one grain futures market in Shanghai.
network/center, and cash-forward (futures)    computers for grain terminal and depot        After some alleged trading aberrations in
grain markets.                                operation simulation, and a regular program   China during the 1990s, grain futures trading
                                              of courses is now offered.                    was suspended and futures trading was
                                                                                            consolidated.
                                              The National Market Information Network
                                              was established and regularly collects,
                                              consolidates, and publishes grain information
                                              data.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Provide high capacity, rapid throughput grain All inland rail depots and port and river     Same as last PSR. A bulk grain handling
port terminals and inland depots, and related terminals are completed and operational.      system has been completed and comprises
transportation infrastructure.                                                              the following:
                                              Four self-propelled barges have been
                                              delivered. 1483 new rail wagons have been     >8 port terminals
                                              delivered. Also 164 bulk tipping trucks have  >64 IDs
                                              been delivered.                               >161 PDs
                                                                                            >1483 newly designed hopper wagons
                                                                                            >4 bulk grain vessels
                                                                                            >164 bulk grain trucks
                                                                                            >138 sets of grain dryers
                                                                                            >60 shunting locomotives
                                                                                            >164 front end loaders
                                                                                            >Shenyang Maintenance Center

                                                                                            The Dalian Xizui Grain Terminal is believed
                                                                                            to be the highest capacity bulk grain terminal
                                                                                            in all of Asia.




1End of project




                                                                  - 18 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Northeast Corridor - Dalian Port Terminals                 182.95         301.94              166
Northeast Corridor - Hinterland                            461.86         385.29               84
Yangtze River Corridor                                     105.80         113.69              110
Southwest Corridor                                          37.08          44.95              191
Beijing Central Depot                                       19.79          18.84              102
Market Services                                              4.80            4.77              38
Training and TA                                             33.00          52.11              107

Total Baseline Cost                                        845.28         921.59
 Physical Contingencies                                     62.70
 Price Contingencies                                        83.40
                         Total Project Costs               991.38         921.59
                  Total Financing Required                 991.38         921.59


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          312.00          251.10        60.00         0.00         623.10
                                  (74.90)         (60.30)      (14.40)        (0.00)      (149.60)
2. Goods                          296.60           15.30        11.00         0.00         322.90
                                 (296.60)         (12.20)      (8.80)         (0.00)      (317.60)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        34.80         0.00         34.80
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (22.80)        (0.00)      (22.80)
4. Land Acquisition                 0.00            0.00         0.00         10.60        10.60
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          608.60          266.40       105.80         10.60        991.40
                                 (371.50)         (72.50)      (46.00)        (0.00)      (490.00)




                                                - 19 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 47.00            207.47            215.43             0.00             469.90
                                           (11.28)           (49.79)           (13.43)            (0.00)           (74.50)
   2. Goods                                319.01             33.09             23.33             0.00             375.43
                                          (319.01)           (33.09)           (11.66)            (0.00)          (363.76)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00             52.11             0.00             52.11
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)           (35.16)            (0.38)           (35.54)
   4. Land Acquisition                      0.00               0.00              0.00             24.16            24.16
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               366.01            240.56            290.87             24.16            921.60
                                          (330.29)           (82.88)           (60.25)            (0.38)          (473.80)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
NEC - Dalian Port              104.40       109.82                   164.60       137.34                 157.7    125.1
Terminals
NEC - Hinterland               263.38       277.44                   183.68       201.61                 69.7      72.7
Yangtze River Corridor         54.86        66.24                    53.20         60.49                 97.0      91.3
Southwest Corridor             29.24        20.58                    22.01         22.94                 75.3     111.5
Beijing Central Depot          11.63        13.32                    10.19         8.65                  87.6      64.9
Market Services                 6.14         0.40                     4.57         0.20                  74.4      50.0
Training and TA                20.34        13.56                    35.16         16.95                 172.9    125.0




                                                           - 20 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Similar to most port projects, the major economic benefits of the Northeast Corridor component accrue in
the form of reduced ship waiting time and increased berth availability. For the purpose of the economic
rate of return analysis, it was assumed that the benefits from reduced ship waiting time, savings in
international (trans-ocean) shipping through the use of larger vessels, the value of reduced ship servicing
time, and dockage fee savings are shared equally between Chinese and non-Chinese agencies ­ this is a
conservative allocation as all the benefits would accrue to Chinese entities whenever Chinese carriers are
used. Other benefits, including increased berth availability, reduced spillage, and reduced ship loading and
unloading costs are assumed to accrue solely to project and other Chinese entities.

Incremental costs and benefits were generally estimated by comparing with and without project scenarios.
However, the "without" scenario was not considered to be static and it was assumed that some grain
throughput efficiencies would be generated over time even without the project. In addition, the project port
area benefited substantially from non-Bank investments that altered the baseline for the "without" scenario.
Costs were added for post-project years to reflect government's commitment to procure the additional bulk
rail wagons necessary to enable capacity throughput.

Portions of the project facilities became operational as early as 1998 and grain throughput has gradually
increased. However, at project completion, throughput was only about one-third of rated capacity. It was
assumed that capacity throughput would be achieved in 2005 for grain outflows and 2007 for grain
inflows. Project efficiency gains (spillage reduction, labor saving, loading and unloading efficiency, etc.)
were very conservatively estimated, using the efficiency levels generated in early operations for the entire
project life. In actuality, further efficiencies should be generated as managers and staff become more
familiar with the new technologies. By comparison, the Central PMO has reported greater efficiency gains
than those used in the ICR's economic rate of return analysis. Using the Central PMO's current reported
greater rate of savings from reduced grain spillage losses, for example, would increase the rate of return
from the 12.2 reported in this ICR to about 14.9 percent.

China's foreign trade patterns have changed substantially since project inception and the benefits have been
adjusted to reflect the changed pattern. Wheat was formerly the most important grain import and project
facilities were expected to handle 3.0 million tons of wheat imports when fully operational. However, by
project closure there were only limited wheat imports, but soybean had become an important import.
Consequently, the accrual of import benefits were estimated by assuming future imports would comprise 50
percent soybean imports from either US Gulf ports or Brazilian/Argentine ports and 50 percent
wheat/barley imports from West Coast, North American ports.

Detailed economic calculations were made that incorporated the increasing trend in larger vessel usage in
trans-ocean freight, reduction in ships waiting time for berthing space, increased availability of berth space,
reduced ship servicing time, improved handling efficiencies and reduced spillage. These models are
provided in the project files.




                                                      - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/06/1991                3    2E, EDC
                TRAINING
              MISSION (US)
              11/14/1991                7     4E, 1FMS, 2GHE,
              PREPARATION
              MISSION
              05/03/1992                8    1ETM, 2E, 5GHE
              TECHNICAL
              PREPARATION
              MISSION
              07/26/1992                1    ETM, CENTRAL PMO
              STUDY TOUR                     (SEVERAL)
              (CANADA)
              09/08/1992              26     1EDC, 1ETM, 2E, 2FMS,
              PREAPPRAISAL                   15GHE, 1A, 1RS
              11/29/1992              20     1EDC, 1ETM, 4E, 1FMS,
              APPRAISAL                      11GHE, 1WRA, 1FA
              02/20/1993                1    1ETM, CENTRAL PMO
              STUDY TOUR                     (SEVERAL)
              (AUSTRALIA)

 Supervision

              09/26/1993                6    1ETM, 2GHE, 1IS, 1PS, 1MSM       1               2
              09/26/1993                6    1ETM, 1GHE, 1IS, 1PS, 1MSM,      1               2
                                             1GHE
              02/09/1994                3    2GHE, 1ETM                       1               2
              05/16/1994                5    1SAC, 2GHE, 1ETM, 1SOP           S               U
              10/09/1994                6    3GHE, 1IS, 1SOP, 1OP             U               U
              04/30/1995                7    1SAE, 1E, 1GHE, 3PS,1PTS         S               U
              11/04/1995                7    1SAE, 1E, 1GHE, 2PS, 1AQ,        S               S
                                             1PTS
              05/19/1996                4    1SAE, 2GHE, 1PS                  S               U
              10/23/1996                4    1SAE, 2GHE, 1PS                  S               U
              02/06/1997                3    1SE, 1PS, 1GHE                   U               U
              01/23/1998                6    1AE, 1E, 3GHE, 1PS               U               U
              05/01/1998                4    1E, 1AE, 2ME                     U               U
              09/06/1998                2    1TE, 1ME                         S               U
              12/17/1998                2    1SAE, 1PS                        S               U
              05/21/1999                3    1TL, 1PS, 1EN                    S               S
              05/21/1999                2    1AE, 1GHE                        S               S
              05/09/2000                3    1E, 2EN                          S               S
              10/08/2000                3    1E, 2EN                          S               S
              10/08/2000                1    1E                               S               S



                                              - 22 -

               03/15/2002                   2   2E                                  S    S
               06/13/2002                   2   1CO, 1TTL                           S    S


 ICR
               10/17/2002                  4     1ETM, 1E, 1GHE, 1RS
               ICR MISSION

 A=Agriculturalist                                      AE=Agriculturalist Economist
 AQ=Aquaculturalist                                     C=Consultant
 E=Economist                                            EDC=Economist Division Chief
 ENG=Engineer                                           ETM=Economist Task Manager
 FA=Financial Analyst                                   FMS=Furtures Market Specalist
 GHE=Grain Handling Engineer                            IF=Information Specialist
 IS=Information System                                  MS=Market Specialist
 MSM=Marine Structure Management                        ME=Mechanical Engineer
 OP=Operations Officer                                  PS=Procurement Specialist
 PTS=Port Specialist                                    RS=Resettlement Specialist
 SAE=Senior Agriculture Economist                       SE=Senior Economist
 SOP=Senior Operations Officer                          TL=Team Leader
 TTL=Task Team Leader                                   TE=Transport Engineer
 WRS=Water Resource Advisor


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                                718
  Supervision                                                             1,336
  ICR
  Total                                                                   2,054
ICR costs incorporated in Supervision.




                                                 - 23 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports

2. Central PMO: Borrower's Evaluation Report

3. Staff Appraisal Report for China Grain Distribution Marketing Project dated May 17, 1993 (Report
No. 11671-CHA)

4. Economic Analysis Calculations for Northeast Corridor (Tables)

5. Resettlement Completion Reports
      (a) Xizui Completion Report
      (b) Wuhan Completion Report

6. China: Options For Reform In The Grain Sector (World Bank, 1991)

7. Xizui Grain Terminal Action Plan (Dalian Beiliang Company, 2002)
8. Dalian Beiliang Company and the Xizui Grain Terminal (on DVD, and Company Brochure)




                                                 - 26 -

Additional Annex 8. Implementing Agency's ICR Summary

Written by Foreign Capital Management Office, State Administration of Grain Reserve,
The People's Republic of China - June 2003



 1. PROJECT OBJECTIVES

 The major objectives of the grain distribution and marketing project (GDMP) are to push forward
 China's reform on the grain distribution and marketing system; expedite the development of grain
 distribution infrastructure and modernization of grain market; introduce international advanced
 technology of grain handling in bulk; improve handling efficiency; reduce distribution costs and grain
 losses; establish an advanced integrated grain logistic system featuring "transport from north to south"
 and "chain transport by rail and water"; promote domestic and international trade and meet the
 requirements of reform and opening up.

 2. PROJECT BACKGROUND

 In August 1991, Premier Li Peng made a decision (No.154 Premier's Official Meeting) that the
 government should invest in the construction of 10 to 15 million tons of permanent modern grain storage
 and handling facilities along the major railway line to improve grain-handling efficiency. At that time,
 the transport to the south and export of grain from the major producing areas of the northeast was done
 by railway through some major bottlenecks such as Shanhaiguan. Therefore during the planning of the
 project, decisions were made to " link the rail flow with water flow" by building port grain terminals.

 The World Bank carried out a Policy Study in China in 1989 (China: Options for Reform in the Grain
 Sector, 1991) that identified grain market infrastructure and policies as constraints to efficient
 development of grain sector. Development of grain marketing capacity had not kept pace with grain
 production and marketable surplus. The Bank's previous investments had been limited to the grain
 production, and should now be expanded to cover the distribution and marketing of post harvest to
 improve efficiency and push forward the reform in grain distribution and marketing system.

 3. PROJECT COMPONENTS

 3.1 Domestic Project Preparation

 Since 1990, the Foreign Capital Management Office (FCMO) (the former World Bank Project Office)
 under the former Ministry of Commerce carried out grain distribution and marketing project feasibility
 study for about 2 years, and submitted a project proposal to State Planning Commission (SPC) in the
 2nd half of 1991, which was approved by the State Council in September 1992.

 3.2 World Bank Project Cycle

 l     Phase 1: Project Identification: a mission headed by Mr. Joseph Goldberg, Chief of Agriculture
 Division, China & Mongolia Department of the World Bank visited China in August 1991 to identify
 the project.

 l     Phase 2: Project Preparation: the Bank sent 3 missions to China in November 1991, February and



                                                   - 27 -

May 1992 respectively for project pre-preparation and preparation.

l    Phase 3: Project Appraisal: the Bank sent 2 appraisal missions to China for pre-appraisal and
appraisal in September and November 1992 respectively. The Bank completed Appraisal Report in
March 1993.

l    Phase 4: Project Negotiation: a Chinese delegation visited the World Bank in Washington D.C. in
April 1993 for project negotiation and agreed with the Bank on the loan/credit agreement, which was
approved by the Board of Directors of the Bank on 17 June 1993. The loan/credit agreement was signed
on 25 August 1993, and became effective on 15 December 1993.

3.3 Project Description

The project covers 15 provinces/regions/municipalities in the northeast, Yangtze River reaches,
southwest and Beijing. The project provided financing to assistant in establishing a bulk grain handling
logistical system in 4 grain transport corridors: (1) North East Corridor (NEC), comprising 60
intermediate depots (IDs) along the main railway line, 133 surrounding primary depots (PDs) and
Dalian port terminal, for the annual outflow of some 9 million tons of maize, soybean and inflow of
some 3 million tons of wheat; (2) Beijing/Tianjin Corridor, comprising Beijing Central Depot for the
annual inflow of 0.7 million tons of maize and wheat from Tianjin and Qinhuangdao; (3)Yangtze River
Corridor (YRC), comprising 6 port terminals along the middle and lower reaches of Yangtze River and
20 surrounding primary depots (PDs) for the outflow of rice and inflow of maize and wheat, totaling
some 3.2 million tons annually; (4) South West Corridor (SWC), comprising Fangcheng port terminal,
3 intermediate depots (IDs) and 8 primary depots (PDs) for the inflow of some 2 million tons of maize
and wheat annually. The designed annual throughput of the above four bulk handling grain corridors is
18 million tons. In addition, service components are built; they are two training centers, one information
center, one maintenance center and two grain exchanges

3.4 Total Investment

3.4.1. The Planned Total Investment

The planned total investment of the project is RMB 8,284,660,000 Yuan, of which World Bank Loan is
US$490,000,000, equivalent to RMB 4,067,000,000 Yuan (USD:RMB=1:8.3). World Bank
investment is composed of credit and loan. The credit is 118,900,000 Special Drawing Rights (SDR),
loan is US$ 325,000,000 (SDR: USD=1:1.38772). Domestic counterpart investment is RMB
4,217,660,000 Yuan, which is financed by both central and local governments; the central government
budget is RMB 1,200,000,000 Yuan, loan from Construction Bank and Development Bank is RMB
1,565,000,000 Yuan, and local counterpart fund is RMB 1,452,660,000 Yuan.

3.4.2 .The Adjusted Total Investment

The total investment of the project after the mid term review and adjustment in 1998 is RMB
7,628,290,000 Yuan, of which World Bank Loan is US$ 473,417,000, equivalent to RMB
3,918,610,000 Yuan (USD: RBM=1:8.2773). The adjustment results from the change of the exchange
rate of SDR to USD from 1:1.38772 in the year 1993 to 1: 1.35458 in Dec.31, 2002. Also, the World
Bank loan has a balance of about US$12 million, at project closure. Domestic counterpart fund is
adjusted to RMB 3,709,680,000 Yuan, in which central government grant is still RMB 1,200,000,000
Yuan with additional central government bond of RMB 1,000,000,000 Yuan, loan from Construction


                                                 - 28 -

Bank and Development Bank is decreased to RMB 558,330,000 Yuan, the actual local counterpart fund
is RMB 951,350,000 Yuan.

4. CONDITONS OF CREDIT/LOAN

The interest of on-lending term: Both Loan and Credit from the Ministry of Finance to the beneficiaries
is 70% of the World Bank standard variable rate of loan per annum; commitment charge for both Loan
and Credit is 0.75% per annum.

5. PROJECT OUTPUTS

Since the design and construction of the project in 1993, a bulk grain handling logistic system has been
completed with the following infrastructures of total storage capacity of 4,354,900 tons by the end of
2002: a) 64 intermediate depots (IDs); b) 8 port terminals1; c) 161 primary depots (PDs); d) 1483
newly designed hopper wagons; e) 4 bulk grain vessels; f) 164 bulk grain trucks; g) 138 sets of grain
dryers; h) 60 shunting locomotives; i) 164 front end loaders; j) 2 training centers and 1 information
center; k) 1 maintenance center; l) 2 grain exchanges. These facilities are mainly in the following 4
project areas:

5.1. North East Corridor (NEC)

The North East Corridor: The total investment is RMB 5,948.78 million Yuan, which accounts for 78%
of the total project investment. The storage capacity is 3,659,200 tons.

5.1.1. Dalian Port Terminal

It is the largest grain port terminal in Asia with the ship loading capacity 4,000 t/h and ship-unloading
capacity 2,000 ton/h. The designed annual throughput is 12million tons.

5.1.2. Intermediate Depots Along the Railway Lines and Primary Depots

Along the main railway line, 60 intermediate depots with the storage capacity of 2.1 million tons and
133 surrounding primary depots with the storage capacity of 1.16 million tons.

5.1.3. Shenyang Maintenance Center

The center provides equipment maintenance services for IDs with the investment of RMB 27.61 million
Yuan.

5.2. Yangtze River Corridor (YRC)

The total investment of the Yangtze River Corridor is RMB 854.6 million Yuan, which accounts for
11.2% of the total investment. Annual throughput is 3.7 million tons. Storage capacity is 502,700 tons.

5.2.1. Zhangjiagang Port Terminal in Jiangsu Province

A 20,000 DWT dedicated grain transshipment berth, with loading and unloading facilities handling
inflow and outflow grain in bulk and bag (rice and maize) at the Yangtze River mouth, for upstream
river terminals by river and seagoing vessels is upgraded. New constructions are three 300 DWT inland


                                                   - 29 -

river berths for grain distribution to hinterland. Storage capacity is 70,000 ton.

5.2.2. Nantong port Terminal, Jiangsu Province

A 20,000 DWT dedicated grain transshipment berth, with loading and unloading facilities handling
inflow and outflow grain in bulk and bag (rice and maize) at the Yangtze River mouth, for upstream
river terminals by river and seagoing vessels is constructed. Storage capacity is 50,000 ton.

5.2.3. Tujishan Port Terminal, Wuhu City, Anhui Province

A 5,000 DWT dedicated grain berth for river vessels handling inflow and outflow grain in bulk and bag
(rice and maize) with loading and unloading facilities is extended. Newly completed are 3 300-500
DWT inland river berths for grain distribution. Storage capacity is 18,000 ton. The storage capacity of
3 hinterland depots (PDs) is 41,700 ton.

5.2.4. Wushiji Port Terminal, Jiujiang City, Jiangxi Province

A 3,000 DWT dedicated grain berth for river vessels handling inflow and outflow grain in bulk and bag
(rice and maize) with loading and unloading facilities is constructed. The storage capacity of newly built
silos is 20,000 ton. The storage capacity of the 11 (PDs) is 127,200 ton.

5.2.5. Qingshan Port Terminal, Wuhan City

A 3,000 DWT dedicated grain berth for river vessels handling inflow and outflow grain in bulk and bag
(rice and maize) with loading and unloading facilities is extended. The storage upgrade and newly built
is 25,000 ton.

5.2.6. Chenglingji Port Terminal, Yueyang City, Hunan Province

A 3,000 DWT dedicated grain berth for river vessels handling inflow and outflow grain in bulk and bag
(rice and maize) with loading and unloading facilities is constructed. A 2,000 DWT floating berth is
upgraded. The newly built storage capacity is 38,800 ton. The storage capacity of the 6 (PDs) is
112,000 ton.

5.3. South West Corridor (SWR)

The investment of GDMP only covers Guangxi region. The investment of the corridor is RMB 406.39
million Yuan, which accounts for about 5.3% of the total investment. Newly built storage capacity is
131,000 ton.

5.3.1. Fangcheng Port Terminal

A 30,000 DWT dedicated grain berth for seagoing vessels handling bulk inflow of grain (wheat and
maize) with ship unloading and train loading facilities is constructed. Silos storage capacity is 50,000
tons.

5.3.2. Intermediate Depots and Primary Depots

50,000 tons storage facilities are newly built in Nanning, Liuzhou and Guilin intermediate depots.


                                                  - 30 -

31,000 tons storage facilities in 8 interior primary depots are constructed.

5.4. Beijing Central Depot

Beijing Central Depot is located at Machikou, Changping District in Beijing with 62,000 tons of silos
capacities. The Investment is RMB 175.82 million Yuan. Annual designed throughput is 700,000 tons.

5.5. Bulk Grain Vessels Fleet

A fleet comprising four 3,000 DWT bulk grain vessels and 800 containers are constructed. Total
investment is RMB 149.5 million Yuan.

5.6. Service Components

5.6.1. Training centers

A Grain Distribution and Research Training Center is set up in Zhengzhou Institute of Technology. A
Grain Distribution and Management Training Center is set up in Nanjing Institute of Economics. The
total investment is RMB16.68 million Yuan.

5.6.2. Information Center

State Grains and oils Information Center is set up in Beijing. The investment is RMB19.93 million
Yuan.

5.6.3. Grain Stocks

The project provided financial support for software and hardware to commodity exchanges in Shanghai
and Dalian. The total investment is RMB 8.66 million Yuan (However, Dalian used non-project funds
for their investments).

The total investment of the above service components is RMB 45.27 million Yuan.

6. PROCUREMENT

The international competitive bidding (ICB) procurement agents of the project are International
Tendering Company of China National Machinery Import & Export Corp (CMC) and International
Tendering Company of China National Instruments Import & Export Corporation (IIEC).

Most of the goods and some large civil works are procured using ICB procedures. Most of the
small-scale civil works are procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures

7. ACHIEVEMENT OF THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

Upon completion, the projects have passed commissioning by authorities concerned. The objectives of
improving handling efficiency; reducing distribution costs and grain losses; establishing an advanced
integrated grain logistic system featuring "transport from north to south" and "chain transport by rail
and water" has been achieved. The project gained good economic efficiency, playing an important role
in grain trade both at home and abroad.


                                                  - 31 -

8. FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

8.1 Favorable Factors

8.1.1 Competent Project Implementation Agency

Foreign Capital Management Office (FCMO) in the then Ministry of Internal Trade and dedicated
World Bank Project Offices of relevant provincial grain bureaus are set up to take the responsibility of
daily work. The Coordination and Leading Group headed by SPC is responsible for resolving serious
problems.

8.1.2 Additional budget allocation for Counter Part Fund

In addition to RMB 1.2 billion Yuan of the planned budget allocation for the project by the state, RMB
1 billion of State Development Bank loan was shifted to government budget allocation funds, which
enhanced the repayment capability of the project.

8.1.3 Preferential Policies of Repayment

The State Council granted a special preferential policy to the project that 60% of the World Bank loan
be repaid from the state budget funds to alleviate the debt burden of the grain marketing enterprises.

8.1.4 Other Preferential Policies

Other preferential policies include: a) exemption of customs tariff and value added tax for imported
equipment; b) exemption of operation tax for project engineering and installation and service; c) interest
free during the construction period for the loan from China Construction Bank /State Development
Bank.

8.1.5 Continuous Bumper Harvest

Up to date, the total production and marketable surplus have reached the projected amount, providing
necessary conditions for successful project operations.

8.1.6 China's Entry into WTO: Challenge and Opportunity

Entering into WTO is not only a challenge but also an opportunity for local enterprises encouraging
them to expedite system reform and transform traditional ideas to face the challenge and grow stronger
in the new market economy.

8.2 Unfavorable Factors

8.2.1 Delay in Dalian Grain Terminal Due of Relocation

The State Council approved relocation of Dalian Port Terminal from Dayao Bay to Xizui in Dalian
Development Zone as well as approving a major design change, which delayed the completion.

8.2.2 Delay in NEC IDs


                                                 - 32 -

Some IDs suspended the project implementation because of the World Bank loan repayment problem.
The construction restarted after the preferential policy of partial repayment of the World Bank loan by
the central government but the implementation schedule was delayed.

8.2.3 Dropping in Grain Export

Along with the entry into WTO, the government subsidy on grain export is eliminated. The export of
maize dropped sharply due to high costs and low quality although there are continuous good harvests in
NEC. These do not present a good prospect for some of the projects sites.

9. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY

The completion of GDMP reduced grain distribution costs by a big margin. But it should be noted, that
this is only a preliminary advanced bulk grain logistic system for export and transport to the South,
continuous upgrading and optimizing will be necessary to sustain the project.

10. PERFORMANCE OF BANK

The performance of the World Bank has been remarkable in the implementation of the GDMP.

10.1 Project Management

Bank staff closely cooperated with the Chinese counterpart to promptly resolve the problems and make
mid-term adjustment during project implementation. Their efforts contributed to the successful
completion of the project.

10.2 Technical Guidance

The Bank actively supports the Chinese side to introduced advanced bulk grain handling technology and
employ international consultants who were experts in grain engineering. The Bank contributed to the
technology transfer to China.

10.3 Supervision

From 1993 to 2000, the Bank sent 21 supervision missions to China to identify problems and resolve
them on site.

11. PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER

11.1 Set up Project Implementation Agency

Coordination Office was set up in SPC and the Foreign Capital Management Office was set up in the
former Ministry of Internal Trade. The relevant provincial grain bureaus also set up World Bank
Project Offices accordingly.

11.2 Counter Part Financing

The government adjusted financing resources according to the actual situation of the project by shifting


                                                  - 33 -

the domestic loan to central budget fund.

11.3 Project Design

FCMO, selecting from a short-list, assigned qualified engineering institutes to undertake project design
work, which has been finished with good quality.

11.4 Project Preliminary Design Review

FCMO and China International Engineering Consulting Corporation organized an expert group to carry
out the on-site review of preliminary designs to make preparation for the start of construction.

11.5 Procurement

FCMO strengthened the management and supervision of the procurement and undertook the task of ICB
of some central procurement. The procurement strictly followed Bank's procurement guidelines and
China's tendering law.

11.6 Withdrawal and Disbursement

FCMO is in charge of the withdrawal and disbursement of the project. FCMO held many training
courses for accountants from project provinces to ensure the quality and speed of the disbursement
work.

11.7 Annual Final Financial Accounting

FCMO submitted the annual final financial accounting of the project, which is audited by the National
Audit Agency, to the Bank before June 30 every year.
11.8 Project Mid-Term adjustment

The Government made mid-term adjustment according to the situation of the implementation in time to
rationalize the use of the project funds.

11.9 Quality Control
Effective supervision is carried out for the entire project engineering works and a lifelong responsibility
system for the quality of the works is set up.

11.10 Technical and Management Training

Since the project launch, FCMO organized over 20 training courses for several weeks length in 2
training centers built under the project.

11.11 Project Commission

PCLG and FCMO drafted "GDMP Commission Guidelines" and undertook the commissioning of key
projects.

11.12 Follow Up Works




                                                   - 34 -

SPC and National Grain Authority have arranged RMB 280 million Yuan to remedy the deficiencies
and optimize the functions of the project facilities.

12. PROJECT RATING

12.1 Economic Efficiency

The project shows good economic efficiency.

A.   The cost of the materials and manual handling is cut down by RMB 13.49 Yuan per ton.
B.   The costs of packing materials such as gunny bags etc., born by the grain traders are cut down by
RMB 16.00 Yuan per ton.
C.   Grain spillage and losses during the marketing dropped from 5.8% down to 1% below with the cost
cut down by RMB 3.60 Yuan per ton.
D.   Port handling costs are significantly reduced by RMB 22.39 Yuan per ton.

Based on the above, the cost saving is RMB 55.48 Yuan per ton in total through the operation of new
system built by the project.

12.2 Financial Efficiency

The financial efficiencies of project enterprises varied with market environment, traffic condition,
marketable surplus of grain and management performance. There are basically 3 types of enterprises:

A.   Enterprise with good financial efficiency and potential profit;
B.   Enterprise with merely fair financial efficiency, which could achieve the balance of profit and loss
with efforts;
C.   Enterprises unable to reach design capacity with equipment idled and losses.

13. FUTURE OPERATION

The State Council has approved a corporate entity "Hualiang Group Corporation Ltd.", to be
established, which will be responsible for future operation and management of GDMP. SPC and MOF
will prepare the administrative framework for the corporation.

14. EXPERIENCES AND LESSONS

14.1 Experiences

A.   Scientific planning is the premise of project success.
B.   Advanced technology is the basis of project success.
C.   Government Support at all levels is the guarantee of project success.
D.   Preferential policies are crucial in stimulating local government and project enterprises.
E.   Following Bank procurement procedures are the effective approach in costs saving and avoiding
corruption.
F.   Quality Management is vital and lasting for project construction.
G.   Support and cooperation from the Bank and ICs are important conditions.




                                                  - 35 -

14.2 Lessons

A.   An interregional and intersectional project is very complex and difficult requiring coordination and
even State Council intervention in resolving some major issues. It should be more prudent to do such
project in the future.

B.   Highly scattered financing is disadvantageous in concentrating on the key project.

C.   The project implementation agency should have integrated control of planning, technology,
financing and management.

D.   Finalization of all debt and repayment arrangements is an important premise of project
implementation.

E.   Bank's review procedure should be greatly simplified. For a package project with similar
technology, the Bank needs only to review several typical subprojects, request proper filing for the rest
of subprojects and make random checking. It will not only expedite implementation but also ensure the
quality at the same time.

F.   The institutional arrangement for the project operation after completion should be set beforehand.



APPENDIX:

1.   Table of GDMP On-Lending Agreement /Actual Disbursement
2.   Table of GDMP Total Financing
3.   Table of GDMP Credit/Loan Disbursement by Year
4.   Table of GDMP Central Budget/National Debt Fund Allocation by Year
5.   Table of GDMP Interest/Exchange Rate during the Implementation
6.   Table of GDMP Principal/Interest/Commitment Fees Dues by 1 Dec. 2002
7.   Table of ICB Contracts
8.   Table of GDMP Storage Capacity of IDs/PDs




                                                 - 36 -

Additional Annex 9. Transition To Bulk Grain Handling


 A. Bag and Traditional Handling Systems




  Jilin Province Intermediate Depot ­               Jilin Province Intermediate Depot ­
  "Straw Mat" storages                             Bag Handling
 B. New Bulk Grain Handling Technologies




  Dalian Xizui Port Grain Terminal ­ Silo           Dalian Xizui Port Grain Terminal ­ Loading
  complex and bulk conveyor system                  corn for shipment by sea




                  Jin Province Intermediate Depot ­ Steel silos and wide diameter tanks




                                               - 37 -

- 38 -

- 39 -

