Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
A /V  C' R- CI/L-'
Report No. 11671-1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GRAI   DISTRIBUTION AND MARKEIING PROJECT
MAY 17, 1993
MICROFIC1IE COPY
Report No.: 1t671-CHA   Type: (SAR)
Title: GRAIO DISTRIBUTION AND MARKETI
Author: NYBERG, A.
Ext. :84050 Room:A 7057 Dept. :EA2A
TITLED CHANGE AT BUFF COVER
Agriculture Operations DivisioD
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restdrted disibution and may be used :y recipients ody in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othewise be disdo.ed without Wodd Bank authOio



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1992)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
$1.00           =  Y 5.80
Y 1.00          =  $0.172
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)       =  3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)  =  0.62 miles
I hectare (ha)    =  1S mu
I ton (t)         =  1,00 kg
= 2,205 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BCD       -   ejing Centra Depot              MOA        - Miistry of Agriculture
BOT       - Bayuquan Grain Terminal           MOF        - Ministry of Finance
CEROILS - Cereals, Oils, and Foodstuffs       MOFERT  - Minstry of Foreign Economic
Import & Export Coiportion                     Relations and Trade
dC        - Commerci Information Center       MOR        - Ministry of Railways
CTCGDM  - China Taniing Center for Grain      NEC        - Northeast Corridor
Distribution Mangement           NEMC       - Northeast Marketng Company
DOT       - Dayao Bay Grain Terminal          NEPA       - National Environmental
dwt       - Deadweight tons                                 Protection Agency
FOT       - Fangcheng Grain Terminal          NGT        - Nantong Grain Terminal
GB        - Grain Bureau                      PD         - Primary Depot
GDMP    - Grain Distribution and Marketing    PDRC       - Physical Distribution Research
Project                                        Center
GIC       - Grain Economic Information        PLG        - Project Leaing Group
Center                           PRC        - People's Republic of China
HRS       - Household Responsibility System   PW         - Project Wharf
IBRD      - InternationaI Bank for            RPIO       - Regional Project Implementation
Reconstusction and Development                 Office
ICB       -   ntationd competitive            SAGR       - State Adminishadon of Grain
Bidding                                        Reserves
ID        - Intermediat Depot                 SCOE       - Shanghai Cereals and Oils
IDA       - Intewrnational Development                      Exchange
Association                      SOE        - Statement of Expenditures
IOD       - Itegraed Depot                    SPC        - State Planning Commission
K17       - Existig Bulk Hopper Railway       SWC        - Southwest Corridor
Wagon                            TC         - Training Coordinator
LCB       - Local Competitive Bidding         WBPO       - World Bank Project Office (in
MDT       - Ministry of Domestic Trade                      MDT)
MLYR    - Middle and Lower Reaches of         YRC        - Yargtze River Corridor
the Yangtze River                ZGT        - Zhangjiagang Grain Terminal



FOR OMCUIL USE ONLY
CHINA
GRAIN DISIRJBUTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
LOAN/CREDTr AM PRoJECT SUMmARY
Borroww:            People's Republic of China
Umenelalces:        Ministy of Domestic Trade, Dayao Bay and Bayuquan Grain Temina
Compamies, and the Provinces and Municipalities of Heilongjiang, Jilin,
Liaoning, Nei Mongol, Jiangsu, Anhul, Jiangxi, Human, Guangxi,
Beijing, Harbin, Shenyang and Wuhan
Amount:             Loan: $325 million
Credit: SDR 118.9 million ($165 million equivalent)
Term:               Loan: 20 years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Credit: IDA standard terms with 35 years' maturity.
Onlending Terna :    Loan/Credit funds would be onlent to the reforming and newly
estblished enterprises at the IBRD rate, or such lesser rate as
IBRD/IDA may agree, taking into account market rates and capacity to
repay, with a repayment period of 15 years, inclusive of five years'
grace period. The benficiaries would bear the foreigp exchange risk.
Objectives and
Description:       The project would support the Goverament's grain sector reform
program for establishing an improved policy and institutonal
evironment to promote efficiency. it would assist institutional and
infrastructure development in grain commodity markets where prices
would be detend by market forces, and facilitate the expansion and
improved efficiency of China's domestic and international grain trade
through investments in critical infrastucre-ingrain storage, bulk and
bagged handling, and transport facilities-in four major grain
production and/or consumption locales in the Northeast, Yangtze River
area, Southwest, and the Beijing area.
The project would fmance works, upgrading, and equipping of bulk
handling facilities for five major grain port terminals, about 60
intermediate grain depots (major inland grain assembly points), about
300 primary grain depots, more th   1,400 bulk rail wagons, over
1,000 bulk trucks, 10 bulk grain vessels, and computers and
telecommunications equipment for two wholesale/future markets, two
training centers, and a Grain Marketing Information Center. A
sust l training and technical assistance component would support
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanc|
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(a) design work, construction supevision, operation and commissio
of the grain handling facilities; and (b) impl ion of the market
development, Ifonafotion Center, and Training Center component and
policy reform aspes of the project.
BNets and Risks:  The principal benefit As the ability to move grains at a lower cost and
in larger volumes from grain surplus areas of China to deficit areas.
Also, the project will facilitate lower cost and larger volume exports of
grain, eaning more foreign exchange. This benefit, involving
estly the commercialization of China's grain sector, will be shared
by producers, intemediate users, and consumers of grain located
primarily in the transport corridors. In addition, others will benefit
sice the project will release traditional grain handling capacity to other
locales and will introduce competitive transport modes by providing
infstructure for water movement of bulk commodities.
The primary risk is that grain surpluses may not continue as projected,
ereby leavng unused capaciq in the logistical chain. However, the
grain surplus projections are based on careful analyses by well-informed
Wronomists and agricultural economists. Another risk is that the
project may not be Implemented on schedule and within budget, given
its complexity. To reduce this risk, substantial use will be made of
domestic and international technical consultants throughout
implementation.   There remains some risk that the ongoing
govenmental organization reform, which is reducing ministry staff
mnbuers, could result in the elimination of staff positions needed to
manage project implementation. To minimize this risk a commitment
ha been obtained from government tiat project staff numbers would be
manitained at levels agreed with the Bank/lDA.
atimaed P et Costs:                                   Local    Foreign    Total
($ million))-
Land acquisition                  10.6        0.0     10.6
Works                            335.4      112.2    447.6
Goods                             70.6     282.6    353.2
Training and tech. assistance     13.6      20.3      33.9
Base Cost                    430 2       M        8453
Physical contingencies            31.9      30.8      62.7
Price contgencies                 42.5      40.9      83.4
Total Proiecan                 C ost              224, 



-D
Finang Plan:                                         Local    Foreign    Tolal
($  mion )- -
Cen"   overmen                  300.0        0.0    300.0
Provica and Loc  Govements
and Entepis                    201.4        0.0    201.4
IBRDIDA                           3.2      486.8    490.0
lad
EAi_mated Disbursement:
Banki/DA FY                 14    199S   126    122           2     18
(s million)
Annual                        40    128     127      97       74      24
Cumulative                    40    168     295     392      466     490
Ecnmic Rate of Reun: 26 percen



CONTENTS
1   MmbeGrdlSetor             ...................................               1
A. btroduction   ........................................                   1
B. GrainP          oducton            ndPanem ..........................    1
C. GainConsumption  ...............                                         3
D. Natlo nal adRegiondlGralnEaWncina s .......................e .           4
E. GrainDbionrkbtion adg . . . ..n.                           .....         S
F. CurentTTenologes inGrainHtnadlig           ......................        8
0. OriginOftheproject ..................................                    9
H. Ratonae for Bank GroupInvolvement .        ......................       10
2   Reformsnthe GrainSector .....................                              12
A. Introduction   ........................................                 12
B. Recent Reforns         .....................................            13
C. Re       gion alE xp erim                           e n s ..................................  16
D. FutureReifrm  ......................................                    18
3   The Projed         ..........................................    20
A. Objectives and Scope         ..................................         20
B. Detaile PFeatr  .....................................    21
C. StatusofPreparation  ................          ..................       29
D.Smplementionchedule                         . . .    31
E. Project Costs and Financing ...............        ...............      31
F. Procurement ...............            .                                33
0. Disbursements ................  34
H. Account and Audit .................  35
1. Environetd Impact ...............                                       35
`his  rt is based on the findings of preappraisal and ppraisa missious In September and
December 1992, compr'sing Mes. A. Pazau, A. Nyberg, J. Goldberg,D. Ahmad, R. van
der Luqg  IR Burcroff II, W. Smith, W. Ziou, Y. Zou, H. Xu (IBRD/IDA), A. de Harog,
E. van Randwijck, R. Lacroix, B. Ainouche, C. Saint-Pierre, P. Mignot, S. Roesdser, D. Pko,
B. Sims-Williams, J. Dubber, T. Kundu, B. Burke, G. Edwards, J. Manson, T Lwin, K.
Broeder, A. Grobman, W. Grossman, W. Gerrish, C. Newman and R. Huemannn
(Consultants). Peer reviewer were S. Bhatia (PBDPR), J. van Hoist Pellekaan (AF2AH), and
T. Waunatada  A2TP). The mission gtfmlwtly acknowledges the strong support of the
Canadian, Autdran, Netherlas ad French governent truhout the preparon of the
ve   The Division Chief i Joseph Goldbrg and the Depatment Dieor is Shabid Javed
B*ik.



-vi-
4         rJect   gIzaIonand Maagenu t  . ....0 .... ..............                               37
A. hnpleentatlon Manageme    ............................                                   37
B. Operatlond Management .......................                            . ..            40
C. Flow of Funds and Cost Rewvery  .........................                                42
D. Moniorig, Evduaion, and Rq tig  ......... ..............                                 42
E. Projec  Lamch Wokshop  ...............................                                   43
F. Bank  3rp Supevisin                          ...............          ... . ...          43
5    Beafits, Justfi ion, and Risks  ......                 .................. ....              44
6    Agreme          Rteachedand       mm a         n   .....       ............ ....             47
1    Statistis. X + * * + * v * e * * * + * * * + *                                              51
I   Table 1......................bytovnce....................................                51
Table 1.2 - TotalGrain Production by Province .              .................          51
Table 1.2-Cor Production by Povince ......................                              52
Table 1.3 -Rice Production by Povince ............ 53
Table 1.4 - Soybean Production by Provln    ....................                        54
Table 1.5 - Wheat Production by Province .....................                          55
Table 1.6 - Grain Exports om Chilna .........................    56
Table 1.7 - Grains InportU Into China ........................                          57
Table 1.8 - Provinci Grain Production and UtilizatIon, 1981483 and 1988-91    58
Table 1.9 - Northeast Corn Production and Utiizaton, 1990 and 2000  . . .               59
2    Goverment Grain Markeftg Reform Progm                ....................                    61
3    ImplenentionSchedes ........                    ....................... ...                 71
Char 1 - Northeast Corridor  ......              .......................                71
Chart 2 - Yagtze River Caoidor  ......                .................. ..             72
Chart 3 - Southwest Cofridor ......              .......................                73
4  Cost Estimates .........................................    74
Table 4.1 - Poject Cost Summary ..........................                              74
Table 4.2 - NEC: Cost Summary ...........................   75
Table 4.3 - YRC: Cost Summary  ..........................                               76
Table 4.4 - BCD and SWC: Cost Summaries ...................                             77
Table 4.5 - Services Compone  Ct S                    ..................   78
S  Disbursmens .              ........................................    79
6  PtojectPrqpaton and EconomiAndysis .......................   81
7  Proposed IRDlIDASupervisionl n ..                        .........................    93
8    SelectedDoumen d Data Avaiblein thePfoject Fle.s  .............                             96
9    P1rncpdaPlojectSites  ....................................                                   98



- Yti -
TAKLS IN TEXT
1.1  GrainProductionandProcureent  ............................                                        2
1.2  Share ofGrainProduction(1990)and Productonl nrwea (1980-90)                         .......       3
1.3  GrainUtiliation                      ...................................   ...                    4
2.1  GrainPrices  ...........................................                                         14
3.1  Grain Flows  ..........................................                                          22
3.2  Intrnationa  Cosutancy Requirements for Grain Trnsport Corridors ......                          30
3.3 ProjectCostSummary ................                                                               32
3.4  SummaryofProposedProcurement Afangement    ......                          ............          33
3.5 Disbursement Afaugeme  ................................    35
S.1  SensitivityAnalysis ................................. .                                          46
Maps
EBRD Nos. 24607 & 24608: Location of Project Component
IBRD No. 24609: Major Grain Flows



1
THE GRAIN SECTOR
A. INTRODUCION
1.1          China is the worldrs largest producer of grains, accounting for about 20 percent
of the world's output. In 1990, China produced 18 percent of the world's maize, 36 percent of
its rice, 10 percent of its soybeans, and 17 percent of its wheat. The harvested area changed
little over the past decade but output increased about 38 percent. Grains currently occupy about
113 million hectares (ha) of land (multiple crop basis) or 76.5 percent of the cropped area.
Production reached a new plateau in 1990-92, averaging 440 million tons. Like other countries
at a similar stage of development, grain has declined from about one half to one third of the
gross output value of agriculture as the production of fruits, vegetables, and animal products
increased to meet changing consumer demand. Also, China has become an important force in
international grain trade. World maize exports are dominated by the United States, which
supplies about 80 percent of the international trade, but recent export increases have made China
the second largest maize exporting country providing about 10 percent of world exports.
Although the world's largest rice producer, China exports only 5 to 6 percent of the
internationally traded rice; and also accounts for a similar amount of world traded soybeans.
Conversely, in wheat trade China is the second largest importer, with ondy slightly less imports
than the former USSR.
B. GRAIN PRoDucTIoN AND PRocuREmzNT
1.2          In China the term "grain" includes not only the food (paddy rice and wheat) and
feed (maize, sorghum, millet, barley, etc.) grains, but also soybeans, tubers (primarily potatoes),
and some pulses.1/ Ihis broad definition results in grain production statistics somewhat
incomparable with other countries. Production increased rapidly during the initial years
following the founding of the People's Republic of China but declined sharply in the late 1950s/
early 1960s, recovering to the 1957 level only in 1965, despite the grain self-sufficiency policy.
After 1965 grain production grew at 2.7 percent per annum until commencement of systemic
reforms (1978-79) (Table 1.1).
1.3          Improved producer price incentives, increased access to credit and improved
physical inputs (fertilizer and seed) coupled with the increased farmer freedom in production and
marketing decisions following introduction of the household responsibility system (1979), rapidly
altered agricultural production and growth patterns. However, the average growth rate for grain
1/ Rice production is reported in terms of paddy rice, whereas consumption and trade are generally
reported in milled rice tenms using a 0.7 conversion ratio. Potato production statistics are converted
to a dry weight basis using a 0.2 conversion ratio.



-2-
Table 1.1: GRAiN PRoDUCION AND PROCUREME
(million tons)
V*Ar      1949  1930-54  1953.59  1960-64  1965.69  1970-74  1973-4  19SO84  19U839  1990.91
Production  113.2  153.2   188.3   161.7   209.3  234.1   298.1  853.9   S93.0   440.7
Procwremt   -    44.0L   34.1   44.2   49.0   34.8   61.9   100.9   1)2.8   161.S
/a Average proment for three yon, 1952-54.
production was 3.0 percent for the 1979-91 period as price, procurement, and market reforms
impacted more on the nongrain sectors. Grain production during the period of rapid policy and
institutional reform (1979-84) grew at an annual rate of 4.9 percent, but stagnated throughout
the balance of the 1980s. Neverteless, grain production increased at a rate double ta of
population growth. Grain production growth in China typically has exhibited A stepwise growth
pattern, with large production increases followed by a production plateau. Consistent with this
pattern, 1990 grain production exploded, with national production increasing 10 percent over the
1989 level; in the Northeastern provinces the increase was 50 percent and production has
remained at these high levels in 1991 and 1992.
1.4          Grain production, like agricultural production generally, is primarily a
smallholder activity. Production on state farms comprises about 2.5 percent of total production;
although grain from state farms undoubtedly accounts for a larger proportion of marketed
surpluses.
1.5          Production of the four major grains (maize, rice, soybeans, and wheat) grew at
different rates over the past decade. Maize output increased from 19 percent of the total grain
harvest in 1980, to over 21 percent by 1990 (growth rate of 4.0 percent). Rice production grew
the least rapidly (1.0 percent per annum) but still comprises about 42 percent of total grain
production. Soybean output grew by 3.1 percent annually over the period, mainting about
2.5 percent of total production. Wheat production grew the most rapidly (5.0 percent) increasing
from 17 to 22 percent of total grain output. The minor grains, including millet, barley,
sorghum, oats, etc., declined in both absolute and relative amounts, and currently account for
about 11.5 percent of total production.
1.6          To assess where grain production growth was greatest, provincial production was
aggregated into six agricultural regions.2I The North and Northeast regions are the important
maize producing regions; more maize is produced in the North than in the Northeast (39 versus
35 percent) but growth in the Northeast was much more rapid during the 1980s (47 versus
30 percent in the North). The Middle and Lower reaches of the Yangtze River (MLYR) region
produces well over one half of China's rice and accounted for 60 percent of the increased rice
during the 1980s. The South and Southwest regions produce about 20 and 15 percent of rice
output, respectively, but growth over the 1980s was modest accounting for about 25 percent of
the decade's increase. Ihe Northeast, North, and MLYR regions account for 50, 25, and
20 percent, respectively, of soybean production. Soybean production is more volatile than other
grains reflecting the climatic uncertainty of the Northeast. The North produces 50 percent of
the wheat and accounted for 60 percent of the production increase during the 1980s. The MLYR
2/  Ddailed dicussioln of growth paemns can be found in World Bank; Cliw  Managi  an
Agricrl Dwfonntkon, Grain Secor Revw, Repotc No. 8652-CHA, April 9, 1991.



-3 -
produces about 20 percent of the wheat outpUt and provided about 20 percent of the increase of
the 1980s. (Detailed statisdcs are conained In Amne )
Table 1.2: SARE OF GRAI PNODCON (1990) Ae ftODUON I1NREAS (1980490)
(    n)
Portu.aat  15.1   18.0    5.1   11.0    5.4    2.6 t4.    47.2   42.0   40.8
Worthi t  2.6   28.      5      2.6   52.2   60.6   58.7   29.6   16.°        68
=brlw..t  5.9   18.9    0.7    143   11.9   12.0    7.7   11.0    5.6   12.9
2          51 . 3 9    54. s4.9   $5.6   21.0   18.6    5.6    ?.1   16.5   17.4
Boutbaat  1s.7    9.9   16.2   16.5    e.9    6.2   11.1    4.4    5.8    6.9
Seutb    9.7    4.0    19.      9.0    0.5    0.1    1.4    0.6    5.5    5.2
TotaL 100.0   100.0   1000   15le    Lea    100.0   100    100.0   100.0   1000.
1.7          Ptro ent. In addition to defining production and consumption pries for
grain and other commodities, the direct planning system imposed in the early 1950s resulted in
a state monopsc'y of foreign and domestic trade procurement, primarily through the Graim
Bureau system but including other stat-owned commercial agencies, and the Supply and
Marketing Cooperatives, which procured and distributed most of China's marketed output of
grain lThrough the mid-1970s grain eteing the marketing system fluctuated around 50 million
tons (20 to 30 percent of production); 50 percent of the Government's procurement was at quota
(plan or 'contract") and the other 50 percent at near-market (*negotiatedu) prices. The balance
of production was consumed in the rur  areas reflecting the effective imposition of the self-
sufficiency obje-tive that permeated plaoning policy through this period. With the relatively
constant volume being marketed during these years there was minimal incentive to modernize
the marketing system. Only when the logistical infrastructure began to be stressed from
additional grain entering the marketing system in the late 1980s, grain procurement increasing
to 133 million tons in 1985-89 and 160 mfllion tons in 1990-91, did the need for improved
handlimg technologies become apparet. Procrement by the nonstate sector remains modest but
increased to an annal average of 40 mIllion tons (25 percent of procurement) in the 1986-90
period.
C. GRM CONSUMMON
1.8          As summarized in Table 1.3, utilization of grain as food (direct consumption)
and animal feed (indirect consumpdon) increased from an estimated 291 million tons in 1980 to
402 million tons in 1990, an average anual rate of 3.3 percent.
1.9          Although dirct consmption of rice, wheat and other grains still accounts for
about two thirds of total utilization, it has comprised a much lesser share of the increase in
utilizadon during the 1980s. Consistent with moderate popuation growth and a slight decline
in average per capita consumption since 1984, total direct coumption of grain is estimated to
have increased by only about 33 million tons during the 1980s. The relative shares of different
grains has also changed. Direct wheat consumption doubled during the 1980s and is now as
important as rice in direct food consumption. By comparison, the direct consumption of maize,
other coarse gans, and potatoes declined sharply as income levels increased. Direct grain
consumption will increase, but at a very slow pace during the 1990s.



-4 -
Table 13: Gua UTiZlAON La
Population    Rood 1k  FReetd       Total    Food 1k  Reed le  Total
(million)     --- (million tons) ----    --- (kg per capita) ---
198)       981          245        46      291       249        47      296
1984     1,033          263        64     327        254        62      316
1990     1, 135         278       125      402       245       110      355
La Excluding seed, industrial uses, waste and other forms of disappearance.
a Includes rice in paddy (whole grain) equivalent.
tQ  Excludes bran and all other milling and pro>e   by-products.
1.10        Driven by the tremendous epasion of livestock production over the last decade,
indirect comuptlon of gain as animal feed is estmated to have incred from about 46 to
nearly 125 million tons between 1980 and 1990. Indirect use of grain-primarily maize, other
coarse grains, tubers and some rice-as aimal feed accounted for more than 70 percent of the
total growth in grain utlization during the 1980s. Income growth during the 1990s is eec
to drive continued strong expansion of demand for animal products and therefore for maize and
other feed grains.
D. NAIONAL AND REIONAL GIN BALANCES
1.11        National Grain Balanes. Driven principally by the strong growth in demand
for animal feed, total utilization of grain increased at a slightly greate pce tan did gran
production during the 1980s. By the end of the decade, thereibre, the balance between domestic
grain supply and demand had tightened significanty. Import intermporal and spatial
differences underlie the overall tred in national grain balnces. The surge in grain production
during the flrst half of the 1980s greatly exceeded the icrease in utilizadon, and national grain
surplues reached new peaks in 1983 and 1984. Ihe sbsequent stagnation of grain production
was associated with the elimination of those surpluses over the balance of the decade. The surge
in grain output in 1990/91 again created a stuplus supply although at a level considerably less
than that of 1983/84.
1.12        Regional Grain Balne.  An analysis of regional and provincial grain
production and utilizaton (&am   I docmnts growing regional surpluses and deficits of
specific grains during the 1980s. Ihe anna surplus of maize, other coarse grains, and soybean
in the northaster provinces of Hei1ongiang, JUin and Laoning ranged between 3 to 12 million
tons during the 1980s, but jumped to a new plu of about 19 million tons in 1990/91. The
northeastern provinces remained deficit in wheat trghou the 1980s, and continue to import
at least 3 million tons of wheat annually. Consistent with the large increase in rice production
over the last decade, the northeastern provinces became more than self-sufficient in rice
production by 1990/91. The six provinces of the MLYR region, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Anhul,
Zhejiang and Jiangsu, contnued to achieve anuwal surpluses of rice and wheat of between S to
10 milion tons tdroughout the 1980s. With the sharp increase in output of animil products,
however, the MLYR region became increasimgly deficient in maize and soybeans. Lastly, the



-5-
deficit of all food and feed grains in China's three municipaltes (&ijing, TiaIjin and Shanghai)
and south coast and southwestern provinces (Fujian, Guangdong, Hainan, Sidmhan, Guizhou,
Yunnan, and Guangxi) doubled from 10 million tons to over 20 millIon tons between 1981/83
to 1988191.
E. GRIN DISIRIDURON A   MA ING
1.13         In March 1982, the Ministy of Commercc absorbed the Ministry of Grain and
the National Supply and Marketing Coopeatives and became the sole authzed governnent
agency responsible for the planning and management of grain procuement, storage, transfer,
prssing, sales, and other grain-reated avities. Import and export responsibility was
delegated to the Cereas, Ois, and Foodstuffs Import and Export Corporation (CEROILS) under
the Miistry of Foreign Eoonomic Relation and Trade (MOFERI). In April 1993, thK 4inistry
of Domestc Trade (MDT) became the official successor of the Ministry of Commerce (and the
Ministry of Merials) and the Ministry of Trade and Economic Cooperation succeeded
MOFERT. The MDT agencies involved in the grain trade include six bureaus and three
affiliasted cotpraions at the national level, all Grain Bureaus and their affiliates at provincial,
prefecral and county lvels, all Grain Distrbution Stations (Offices) at township level and the
numerous suroundg rural grain depots. In urban areas these agencies include all city and
district Grain Bureaus, urb  grain depots, neighborhood retai grain shops (which supply urban
residents with subsidized ration products as well as higher quality negotated market products)
and processing industries.
1.14         For over four decades the Grain Bureau system has been the state's arm,
responsible for securig and dibutin adequate grain supplies and maintaining stability in the
grain market. During the free marketing perod (1949 to 1952) a relatively competitive grain
market prevailed as govmetowned gain companies, an  bureaus and numerous private
grain traders were encouraged by the Government to participate in the grain trade. During the
government monopoly period from 1953 to 1984, government-owned grain agencies (grain
companies, trade companies, grain bureaus, etc.) were trade monopolists, strictly following state
plans. Farmers were required to sell almost all sutplus grain to the Government at a low fixed
price I/ and all grain requirements including ur     ation gain, disaster relief and industry
use were allocated by the Government. To compesate for the low quota price and encourage
frmers to meet their quota obligatios, the Governme  introduced the three linkge policy..41
In 1985 the Govenment introduced a contractua  grain procrement system allowing private
sector pardcipation in the grain trade. Farmers were encouraged to participate in the grain
market with surplus production beyond government contract obligations, along with gram
enterprises (grain bureaus, supply and marketing cooperatives, the importtexport trading
corporations, township and vilage enterprises, private traders, etc.). But the Government
continued to regulate the grain market thrgh: (a) planning procurement, transfer, and sales
3/  To smlate gri prodcton, th  wernmet raised quot gan prment pices tr  times
during tat period by an average of 25 percent in 1961, 17 percen in 1966 and 21 percent in 1979.
Ih price pmium for above quota procemt was 10-12 perent i 1960, 30 perce  in 1971 and
SO perent in 1979.
A/  To _ncourg frme  to fidfill gan conc, te Govement decided to pay 20 prcen of
contract prcuremt paynm  befor th plang  seaso, and provide 3 kg of feilier and 1.5 kg
of diesel fh  at Ssed low prices for each 50 kg of ain sold to the Ste, commecing in 1987.
Ttis was called the rw ikage policy.



-6-
targets for the prvine; (b) controlling grain imports and exports; and (c) trading grain at
negotated prices between stateownd grain companies. However, In 1992 grain prices were
either partially or completely deregulated in some locales (e.g., Guangdong, Zhejiang, Hunan,
and Jiangxi provnces and numerous prefectures and counties) and private grain traders have
actively reentered the grain trade.
1.15         The Grain Bureau system dominates not only grain procurement, marketing and
distribution but is highly vertically integrated and is a major force in grain processing. The
wheat flour and rice milling industries are overwhelmingly dominated by Grain Bureau
enterprises which control about 1,800 and 5,600 mills, respectively; most of the processing mills
are of small capacity and most are owned by municipal and county level enterprises. Grain
Bureau enterprises also are major processors of livestock feeds, owning about 30 percent of the
nation's feed mills and 50 percent of the feed milling capacity.
1.16         Since 1988, the size ofplanned interprovincial grain trade has been reduced and
stabilized at an average of about 21.4 million tons annually consisting basically of imported
grn, grain for export, and grain procured at negotatd pnces for urban ration supplies and
minor industrial needs. In 1989 the volume of grain procured at negotiated prices surpassed that
procured at planned prices. The Government's domestic grain trade strategy is to: (a) eliminate
the distinction between planned and above quota procurement and transfers by increasing
planned grain prices nationwide (except in some poor areas) until they are at par with market-
determined prices; and (b) encourage uninhibited movement of grain domestically by
withdrawing the Grain Bureaus from direct grain trading, pemiting market forces and
conditions to determine market prices.
Jntentonal Trade
1.17         Ihe policy and instutions applicable to China's exten   grain trade function
more to balance grain surpluses/deficits than to exploit the comparative advantages enjoyed in
grain production. Several Goverment ministries/agencies are involved in the planning of grain
exports. MDT through the Grain Bureaus assembles information on marketed grain surpluses
and the State Planning Commission (SPC) determines domestic consumption requirements.
MOPERT then designs an export plan and its specialized trading company, CEROILS, allocates
the planned exports to the production locales (provinces/nmnicipalities) with grain surpluses;
CEROILS either undertakes the trade transaction directly or issues a license to a domestic
foreign trading company to undertake the rnsactio. Exporting volumes beyond the planned
amounts must receive authorization from MOFERT regardless of the magnitude of remaning
production surpluses.
1.18         China exports about 10 percent of the internationally traded maize (7.7 million
tons in 1991) and modest amounts of soybeans/soybean meal and rice (anmnal amounts of about
3.0 and 0.5 million tons, respectively). Currently, Japan and the Republic of Korea are the
primary maize export destinations. Most of these ewports are in medium sized (20,000-
25,000 t), predominandy Chinese owned vessels which deliver direct to small ports unable to
receive larger oceangoing ships from the Uned States and elsewhere. Historically, te USSR
had been a major maize export market. However, this trade was typically on a barter basis and
did not earn foreign exchange. Similarly, much of the grain eports to the Democratic People's
Republic of Korea had been on a concessional or assistance basis, also earning no foreign
exchange. Soybean/soybean meal exports are primarily to other East and Southeast Asian



countries. Rice exports are in small volumes, primarily to other Asian countries and Africa.
China is one of the world's largest wheat importers, with imports averaging 13.7 million tons
and $1.8 billion annually over the past quinquennium. Inports are primarily in large bulk cargo
ships from Canad, the United States, and Australia.
1.19         Most of the maize and soybean exports are evacuated through ports in
Northeastern China, particularly Dalian and Yingkou on Liaoning Province's southeastem
Liaodong Peninsa. In 1991 these two ports together accounted for 57 and 74 percent of maize
and soybean exorts, respectively. Sixty to 65 percent of the export rice originates in the
Yangtze River Basin and is exported from terminals at the Yangtze River mouth.
Strategic Grain Reserve
1.20         To maximize procurement from the record grain production of 446 million tons
in 1990, and to establish a strategic grain reserve for emergency use, the State Council
implemented, in September 1990, a State Adminon of Grain Reserves (SAGR). Headed
by the state councillor responsible for domestic trade and agriculture, the SAGR Leading Group
consists of one member each from SPC, Ministry of Finance (MOP), Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), MDT, MOFERT, Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, Agricultural Bank of
China and State Price Administration. The Leading Group's working office is located in MDT,
headed by a Vice Minister who also is head of the newly established SAGR. Although the
SAGR has been formally established, it is unclear whether it will be institutionally separate from
MDT. As an interim measure, grain Storage and Transportation Divisions of provincial Grain
Bureaus act as SAGR's affiliates procuring, storing and managing the reserve grains. The state
is the sole owner of the reserve grains and all investment and servicing costs are borne by the
central government.
Urban Grain Ration System and Subsidies
1.21         China's state-run food ditribution system was established in the early 1950s as
a means of guaranteeing the urban work force adequate supplies of staple foods at stable prices.
Over 40,000 publicly owned grain shops distnbute about 70 percent of urban food grain
requirement and are the sole point of purchase for subsidized grain rations. Grain rations are
determined by age, sex, and occupational stucture Oaborers receive a larger ration than students)
of the household but the amnual base allocation averages about 180 kg per person. Ihe ration
coupons are valid only in the locality where issued and access to rationed grains is restricted to
the nonagricultural popaon. InWally profitable, the food distibution system began suffering
moderate losses in ihe early 1960s when the Government increased planned farm-gate
procurement prices for grain to levels about equal to planned distution prices. Fiscal losses
on urban grain subsidies increased sharply in 1979 and throughout the 1980s as the Government
held ration grain sale prices for grain ad grain products fixed at their early 1960s levels while
incrsn procurement prices. By the end of the 1980s, the Government was supplying urban
ration recipients with rice and wheat products at planned retail prices which were less than half
their procurement prices and 20 and 25 percent of the rural free market prices of rice and wheat.
1.22         The fiscal costs of these grain subsidies are estimated to have increased to about
Y 48 billion by 1990. On average, the annmal fiscal costs of grain subsidies accounted for more
than 10 percent of total govenment eWenditure during the second half of the 1980s and were
more th  si times centa govermnt expenditure on capital construction in agriculture.



-8 -
Furthermore, the madtory grain procurement system requires that farmers supply the
Govermnent-at below-market prices-with 50 million tons of grain to be provided to the urban
population. The net loss of farm revenue on these mandatory grain sales, which are not included
in official estimates of the costs of the food distribution system, is estimated to have been at least
Y 23 bilion in 1989.
1.23         Tho quality of grain (parcularly rice) available in urban ration shops is widely
recognized as below that available in free market shops. Consequently, many consumers no
longer purchase subsidized rationed grain preferring to pay more for higher quality grains in the
private shops. Further, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences has estimated that annual urban
expenditures for grain and grain products would increase by only four Yuan per capita if prices
were decontrolled. Ihese two considerations are strong arguments to fully deregulate grain
prices.
F. CuRREr TEHOLDOGS IN GRAIN HANDLING
1.24         Outside of coal handling there are few bulk commodity handling systems in
China, and none handling domesticaly produced grain. The historic orientation towards local
grain self-sufficiency, strongly emphasized prior to 1978, is the main reason for this lack of
development. Under this orientation, storage rather than transport and handling was
emphasized. Storage performance is good compared with other developing countries, with some
good permanent grain storage facilities in virtually every township. Such facilities include flat
brick and plaster warehouses on the Russian model, more traditional small clay and brick silos,
and a relatively small volume of larger steel and concrete silos. Even temporary faciities,
common in years of bumper harvests, including silos constucted of straw mats, and stacked bags
on stone or wooden paUlets, wrapped in layers of canvas and plastic, suffer relavely low rates
of spoiled grain. Local Grain Bureau management is attentive to preservation principles, and
practices dig (often by bleeding bagged grain onto large courtyards for sun drying), aeration,
fumigation, and rodent control.
1.25         However, the system is incapable of rapid and efficient movement of large
volumes, increasingly required by the livestock feed industry and expanding intrregional and
international trade in grin. While farmers may deliver grain to primary depots in either bags
(e.g., paddy in the south) or bulk (e.g., wagon or truck loads in the northeast), it is bagged in
the depots as the balance of the transport and handling system is equipped only for bag handling.
If further drying, cleaning or aeration is required, bags must be opened, the operation is done
by hand, and the grain is then rebagged. Virtually all short-distance transport is by small trucks
(2-10 tons) or barges (20-200 tons), loaded and unloaded maully. Rail transport of grain is
primarily in bags, with box or gondola cars loaded mamnally, assisted only by portable mobile
conveyors, which are also used inside depots and warehouses to assist manual lifting. In some
advanced locations, barg and ships are bagloaded by crane rather than manually, but in large
ships for the export trade the bags have to be manually bled into holds to produce a bulk cargo.
Such a system may be acceptable where flow volumes are small, labor costs are insignificant,
and where the slow movement inherent in even semimechanized bag handling S/ does not
require waing by large, expensive, and extremely constained transport infastructure (ships,
barges, trains, large tucks). These conditions no longer apply in China.
S/  Even a system which could manually mute ons 90 kg bag every five seconds can bandle only
65 tns per hour, slightly mor tn aoe Chinese boxcar.



-9 -
1.26         Where modern grain bulk handling equipment has been int uced, it has been
in a fragmented fashion (i a single depot or one part of a depot), typically producin only a
fraction of the potential benefits (e.g., wheat silos can be found without bulk train dumping
facilities to feed the elevator or unconnected by conveyor to the associated flour mill, etc.). But,
bulk handling is inherently systematic in nre. The most successful introductions of bulk grain
handling technology involve wheat imports, since wheat arrives in large international vessels on
which heavy demunge penalties wil be assesed, and must be transferred to relatively few high
capacity flour mills where approprate receiving facilities can be readily introduced. Tbis
includes the Tianin wheat import terminal, served by 600 bulk rail hopper cars (out of only
1,000 in all of China), which carry most of the throughput to Beijing.
1.27         To systemaically introduce bulk grain handling technologies, an intaional
technology transfer will have to occur. With so few exawmles of successful bulk handling
systems in China, Chinese designers are disadvantaged in conceptualizing the required
macrologistical systems which are feasible within the curent international state-of-the-art.
Equipment systems withi individual teminals and depots are often patchworks of mmatched
equipment (e.g., of conveyors, reclaimers, pneumatic unloaders) manufactured within the Grain
Bureau system, resulting in incongruent, underpowered,2/ and unreliable sections and
unsuccessfui system. While some advances could be made by adaptations of higher volume
system already made in China, e.g., for coal handling, the technology will require intnational
transfers under the skldled supervision of inteational eoginees.
G. ORIGIN OF THE PROJECr
1.28         Ihe proposed project originated in a World Bank policy study (CJn  Oons
f,or ?efim in the Grain Sector, 1991), which identified market infrasucture and policies as
costints to efficieat development of the grain sector. Development of grain marketing
capacity has not kept pace with grain production and marketed surpluses; although large volumes
of grain are moved interprovincially and intergionally the logistical system has become
stressed. The lack of bulk handling and transport technologies limits the development of rational
grain markets (and the benefits of regional speciaization and trade) to an e     similar to policy
deficiencies.   eated bulk grain handling is employed only at the Tijin grain import
terminal, but much of the efficiency gained is lost at the inland destinations which are
uequippe for receiving bulk shipmens. Given China's size and need for improved handling,
the high cost of bulk handling tedchnology prohibits its universal introduction. It will, therefore,
be introduced selectivtdy, initially focusing o transwort corridors where all elements (storage,
handling, transport vehicles, processing) of exisg or projected grain flows would be integrated
and mutualy compatible to ensre efficiency. An obvious corridor was in the Northeast region
which supplies maize to the deficit regions in the South and Southwest and accounts for most of
China's maize and soybeans exports; and where enormous increases in grain production occurred
in 1990, leaving large and    ageable surpluses of maize. A second obvious corridor was
the middle and lower reaches of the Yangtze River area, the major rice surplus area which
accounts for most of Chinas rice exports; in addition it is maize deficit and imports considerable
1  In Cada, 26,000 ri hpper ars operate rgulary.
71  For example, he largest belt conveyor system cuently manufctured within he Grn Buam
sysem has a capacty of 200 tonthouw, whers con shiploading in Norteast   na will
eonomially require capacites of up to 1,800 tons .



- 10-
quantites from the Northeast. Both of these corridors are wheat deficit and depend on
international imports to balance requirements. These two corridors form an integrated bulk
collection (assembling shipments from intermediate and primary depots and farmers) and
distibution (serving a relatively smail number of grain processing plants) system and the
fundameal base for the proposed project. Complementary bulk handling facilities will be
provided in two other locations; the Beijing Central Depot to consolidate bulk handling on the
Tianjin-Beijing corridor and Fangcheng port as a bulk receiving terminal for a Southwest
corridor to be completed in the future.
1.29         Transport economies in free market systems favor bulk water transport modes
over bulk rail for very long distances (e.g., over 1,000 kIn). Price liberalization and
rationalization are expected to lead to similar price relatives in China; rail tariffs doubled in July
1992, and further large increases are indicated. But the prevailing unrealistically low rail tariffs
have congested the rail network and delayed the development of bulk water transport
ifrastructure (water shipping tariffs are already market determined). Given this situation,
oving millions of tons of incremental grain, by rail, from Northeastern to Southern and
Southwestern China was untenable. But evacuation via the relatively uncongested rail route from
Northeast interior points to ports on the Liaodong Peninsula whereby it could be transshipped
by seagoinglcoastal vessels to nearby international markets and domestic ports in South and
Southwest China appeared viable and became the focus of the project.
1.30         Lesons Learned from Previous Bank Operations. Previous grain distribution
and marketing projects in other countries have encountered four sets of problems, namely:
(a) inappropriate objectives-increased reliance on governmen intervention; (b) inadequate
aenion to the policy framework; (c) excessive reliance on storage; and (d) inadequate
institutional and managerial capacity for project implementation. From the outset, preparation
of this project has sought to avoid these problems. Built upon prior study of China's grain
sector and intensive review of the policy framework during project preparation, the current
projects objectives are the embodiment of the Bank's past recommendtions for the sector and
are entirely consistent with the thrust of the government's plans for price, trade and enterprise
reform. The issue of excessive reliance on storage was resolved during project preparation; the
project includes only high-turnover, transfer storage-dead storage structures were excluded.
To ensure efficient project implementation, (a) several steering groups and implementation
agencies have been established including senior representatives from the key agencies,
(b) sufficient numbers of international engieeing experts wil be recruited to assist in project
implementation and management, and (c) a mumber of new shareholding corporations and other
commercial companies have been set up. In addition, transport infrastructure projects-and port
development projects in particular-have noted the need to approach transport logistics and
capacity constraints holistically; the project provides both specialized berths for bulk grain
hadling/shipping and complete integrated bulk grain tranwort systems comprising vehicles
(newly designed bulk rail wagons, bulk trucks and barges), handling equipment, and bulk transit
storage, organized along critical transport corridors stretching deep into grain surplus and deficit
regions.
H. RATIONAL FOR BANK GROUP INVOLVEMENT
1.31         Adoption of the household responsibility system and earlier reforms in land
tenure, pricing, and marketg, have achieved impressive results in reducing rural poverty by
increasing agricultural output (particlarly in livestock products) and increasing agricultural



-11-
income. But, an unfinished reform agenda remains as the Government continues to intervene,
albeit to a lesser extent, in agticultural planning, pricing, marketing, production quotas, and
marketig/processing enterprises. Additional reform eforts are both under way and planned,
and are consistent with the Bank's sector strategy priorities. The Goverment has responded
vigorously, pursuing new reform efforts to make the grain sector market responsive, exceeding
the target time references suggested in the Bank's country economic report, entitled C7na.
Refonm and the Role of the Plan in the 1990s (1992), and In the continuous policy dialogue the
Bank Group has maintained with the Goverment on the grain sector. These reforms are fully
consistent with the broad recommendations for price reform, enterprise reform, foreign trade
liberalization, and the creation of a more competitive grain market sector that were set forth in
the Grain Sector Study.l/ The proposed project will support policy and institutional reform,
infastucure strengthening, and technological modernizion  and maintain adequate
environmental safeguards. The technology to be introduced in the proposed investment will
increase grain handling efficiency and marketing capacity, withut which agricultural production
(and rural income) growth will be suppressed. Ihe Bank Group has been umnualy deeply
involved in assisig project formulation, due to its innovative and complex nature, and
successfui implementation will require mantang close financial, technical and policy support.
§I World Bank, Report No. 8652-CHA, op. cit.



- 12-
2
REFORMS IN THE GRAIN SECTOR
A. NmODUCTON
2.1          The 1980s Rural Reform Pram  and the Grain Sector. Ihe iitiaton of
China's well-known rural economic rdeorm program in 1978 (para. 1.3) was associated with rea
average annual growth of rura per capita income of 15 percent during 1978-84 and similarly
remarkable growth of agricuual proc        During the 1980s, the pricing and markting of
most  criulural products were dergua   and free market for most food comm es were
alowed to suWlement and supplant state-oned ditrbudon m els. As part of the rural
economic refrms, planned procurement prices for grain were increased first in 1979 and then
again in the late 1980s. The reestablishmeof grain markets in 1985, initally at the retail level
and  bseq    y spreading   the wholesale level, primary markets and interprovincial trade,
bea to break down the state monopoly in the grain sector (para. 1.7). Addionally, state
procurement of grain at below-market planned prices was capped at 50 million tons beginnin
in 1987, or less than 15 percent of tota gain production. While the 1980s grain seecor reforms
were highly successfl overall, they were also associated with the emergence of several major
new chalenges for policymakers. Most importandy, whie grain prices in the fledgling free
markets were in   ing to historic highs in the late 1980s, the planned retail sales prices of
gai in urban areas were kept fixed at their early 1960s levels. Ibis led to extraordiy price
disotons by the end of the 1980s-planned procurement prices for rice and wheat were several-
flud greater than heir planed retail sales prices-and an enormous fiscal burden amounting to
about 15 percent of gov ernt revenues. Furthemore, these policy-induced losses have been
an imot mpediment to regional exp  i      on with grain eneprise reform.
2.2          The 199 Reform. A burst of prominent new initiatives adopted in 1991 and
1992 have greaty accelerated the pace of grain sector refom  As a key element of the new
round of reforms, the plannet il sales price of grain was more than doubled. Coupled wit
addional increases in planned procurement prices, China has now achieved a rough pariy
between planed (both poa and slles), free market, and world market prices. Thugh
"ese gn price reforms, governmen ouWs for grain prnce subsidies have been reduced and
the fiscal burden lowered to about 10 percent of total governamet revenue in 1992. Continued
market liberalization has facilitated a rapid diversification of grin ownership and distribution
including self-employed traders, privatadg  and transport enerpris, and joint ventures with
foreig ownership. A network of wholesale grain markets, supported by regional and primay
markets, has now taken shape and plays an increasingly importan role in interregional and
prvici  grain transactions. Reulatn issued in late 1992 have established the policy
framework forefoms in the amaagement and operation of stateowned grain
enterpis  to assist them to become lndqxendent commercil entities, responsible for their own
profits and losses. These and other reforms have been developed primarfly through regiona
expeiments-with succesu refOm initiatives being extended nationwide and failed reom



- 13 -
being abandoned-and will continue to be developed on this basis. A most significant example
of this process of regional exentaton is that, as of April 15, 1993, extensive or complete
grain price deregulaion had been extended to about 1,800 counties and cities, or about four
fifkhs of the country.
2.3          Prospe  for continued implementation of planned grain sector policy reform
are excellent. Except for a limited number of impoverished areas, complete price deregulation
should be completed within two to three years throughout the entire country. Price reform will
be complemented by the completion of an open nationwide grain marketing system. In
preparation for China's possible accession to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the
Goverment is now also considering options for eliminating the monopoly power of state foreign
trade corporations. Perhaps most importatly, with the further definition of property rights, the
full division of operational management from administrative interference, and the clear
identificationof the loci of decision-making power and responsibilities, the grain enterprises will
complete the transition to truly independent and competitive entities, fully responsible for their
profits and losses. The Governm s grain marketing reform program (A=nnen2! reviews recent
reforms, oudines regional expimental reforms now under way, and identifies the focus of
fure reforms. These three topics are summrized below.
B. RECENT RORMS
2.4          Pricing Reforms. Announced at the end of 1978 and effective in 1979, quota
prices for mandatory grain procurement were increased 21 percent. In addition, the premium
paid on the above-quota delivery of grain and oil crops was raised from 30 percent to 50 percent
of the quota price.II These increases in the planned procurement prices for grain pushed the
planned farm-gate price of rice, wheat and maize to levels roughly 10 percent greater than urban
ration sale prices in that year. Subsequent increases in planned procurement prices, and a sharp
surge in free market grain prices during the second half of the 1980s, led to very large
discrepancies between planned and free market procurement and retail prices in the late 1980s.
The urban free market retail price of rice, for instance, was five times the 1989 urban ration
price. The rura free market prices of wheat and mazie in that same year were more than double
the planned procuremnent prices, which were in tum roughly 250 percent greater than the urban
ration price.
2.5          These extrsme distortions were largely eliminated through aggressive price
reforms undertaken during 1991 and 1992. Between May 1991 and April 1992, the fixed price
of grain for retail sale was raised in two steps by 140 percent, which unified the purchasing and
sale prces for grain, a significant step toward complete grain price deregulation. With an 18
percent hike in planned procurement prices for grain in 1992 and a pronounced decline in free
market prices, there is now a rough parity between planned procurement and sales prices and
free market prices. These domestic prices, fiuhermore, now correspond fairly closely to current
world market prices, given that much of the rice is far below internationally traded quality
standards. National average grain prices in 1980, 1989 and 1992 are summarized In Table 2.1.
,/  Unti 1985, two disi  pnces, quota and aoeuot, ended m th stat commeria nsym.
Quota rice applied to crops sold by productio units in fulfillment of mandatoy proceme
obligatons; abo-quot prices to cwps sold in excess of the obligato



- 14 -
Table 2.1: GRAN PRCES
(Y/ton)
1980              1989               1992
Rice (paddy)
Planned procurement               289                427                497
Free market (urban)               620              1,090                  _
Urban ration                       196               196                510
Wheat
Planned procurement               393                486                628
Free market (urban)                na                972                  -
Urban ration                      276                273                640
Maize
Planned procurement               268                356                405
Free market (urban)                na                706                  -
Urban ration                       194               194                424
2.6          Market Development Reforms. Withtheliberalizationofcommoditymarketing
during the 1980s, free market retail trade in grain increased from about one million tons in 1978
to more than seven million tons in 1991. Despite this sharp increase in free market trade, state
agencies have maintained their share of grain procurement and sales and remain the dominant
force in China's domestic grain markets. State procurement of grain at the planned contract
price, however, declined from about 60 million tons in 1985 to less than 50 million tons in
1991/92. State agencies now purchase the majority of their incoming grain at negotiated and
"protection  prices which closely approximate or exceed the free market price.2/
Furthermore, the elimination of most of the price subsidies on urban ration grain in 1991/92
removed the key barrier to private retail trade in grain, and has engendered a marked increase
in such trade.
2.7          To diminish regionalism and market segmentation and reduce trading costs,
programs are under way to develop national grwn market inastrcture, including wholesale
grain exchanges. Early in 1990, the central Grain Wholesale Market (a commodity exchange)
was established in Zhengzhou, Henan and soon after a number of regional exchanges emerged
in Changchun, Wuhan, Harbin, Cangsha, Jiujiang, Weibai and Wuhu. Now, a network of
markets, centered in the national wholesale market, and supported by regional and primary
markets, has taken shape and is performing an increasingly important role in grain trnactions,
stabilizing the market and providng information.
2.8          Market development is also being promoted by both the MDT and several
provinces to commercialize grain bureau entprises, encourage diverse forms of enterprise
ZI  Since 1990, the State Administation of Grain Reserves (par  1.20) has procred sigficant
volumes of gin at the newly establised "protion price. Total stat procurement of gain at
negotiaed and potection pices amounted to neady 75 million tons in 1990.



- is -
capital participation, and open marketing activities to nonstate trading companies. Guangdong
leads the provincidal level reform effort, pardcularly in the overal structure of the marketig
system and commercialization of Grain Bureau enterprises, providing models for reform
elsewhere. Although deregulation was filly sanctioned only in early 1992, competition between
Grain Bureau trading enterprises and food shops, and nonstate operators appeats to have
sdmulated commercializadon in the former and has improved service and product quality in both
segments of the market. Private sector wholesaling and nonstate involvement in Guangdong's
interprovinclal trade has developed, and in some insces, the development of specialized
functions and interdependence between state and nonstte enteprises have emerged.
Guangdongfs farmers have responded to the market forces by replacing the production of low
quality hybrid rice with higher quality rices and cah crops (in 1992, the area planted in hybrid
rice declined by over 1 million ha). Programs to develop gra market infrastrucure for market-
based transactions are widespread in other provinc as well.
2.9          Enterprise Reform. Enterprise reform resides at the center of grain marketing
and distribution reform. Reforms are being introduced in the a traion, management and
operation of state-owned grain enterprises to assist them to become independent commercial
entities, responsible for their own profits and losses. Until 1992, however, Grain Bureau
enterprises were largely exempted from the reform provisions of the 1988 Enterprise Law as a
matter of state policy. The State Council's 'Regulations on Transforming Management of State
Enterprises" has now established the policy framework for the application of these regulations
to enterprises within the Ministy of Domestic Trade system (specific guidelines were issued on
November 6, 1992).
2.10         In addidon to increased autonomy in the management of fixed assets and
financial capital, the regulations provide for more autonomy for grain bureau enterprises in the
following aspects:
(a)   freedom  to choose appropriate managemen  for wholesale, retail and
consignment on purchase, storing and transport, consolidated procurement and
sales, etc.,
(b)   freedom to procure and sell in any grain market or exchange, irrespective of
geographical or sectoral orientation,
(c)    permision for import and export tdig in categories of goods and services
permitted by the state, and freedom to select their own foreign trade agents,
(d)   autonomy for investment and renovation decisions, and responsibility for
securing Investment capital,
(e)    decision-making autonmy related to personnel and work force policies, income
distribution, etc., and
(f)   freedom to itegrate with others across regions, sectors and industies.
At the same time, the enterprises are expected to strengthen their financal autonomy, and are
required to become filly self-financing win three years of introducing a restructuring plan.



- 16-
2.11         The guidelines for enteprise reform were based in part on reform expermet
that have been under way for several years in Tianjin and Shanghai Municipalities where mked
(planned and negoffated) pricing prevais. Separate accoumts apply to sales where adnisterd
prices generate a 'policy loss'; such losses are reimbursed from a budgeted desigat  fod
which makes the subsidies transparent. The Government thus remains responsible for fiacing
policy-induced losses, while the enterprises will be responsible for losses from profit oriented
activities that stem from poor management. Enterprises involved in grain distribution and
marketing in these localities are thus free to pursue commercial principles, and are subjected to
the same rules and market forces as enterpri  Inurisdictions where full price deregulation has
occurred. The experimental reforms in Shanghai and Tanjin are now being adopted across the
country along with other forms of management, such as employee contributo  to a risk fund
that is mortgaged to enterprise profitability ("risk-based morge contractig"), shareholding,
leasing, diversified ownership and incorporation. It is too soon to evaluate the effects of this
reform, but there are encouraging signs that the increased freedom in decision-making and
management responsibilities is leading to improved productivity and fiancial results.
2.12         Subsidies Reduction. The price reforms are begining to show fiscal results.
Pollowing the unification of planned procurement and distribudon prices in April 1992, the
volume of enterprise subsidies declined from about Y 48 biflion in 1990 to an exte Y 42
billion by end-1992. These price policy initiatives are significant, curbing the eapectation of
unlimited financial support for poor enterprise peformance. However, subsidy reduction in
1991 as a share of total subsidies remained relatively small and illustrates the magnitude of
operating loss claims and the strain placed on the limited financial resources at all levels of
govermnentla
C. REGIONAL EXPER1MNI
2.13         A wide variety of grain sector institutional and policy reforms are now under
way in virually every region of China, with more commencing on a fairly continuous basis.
Provincial programs must be approved by the central Government (the State Council), while
those at lower levels require the approval of provincW governments. Reform aspects which are
of national relevance are referred to the State for preparation of national regaions; this applies
to enterprise reform, with regard to enterprise accountng, taxation, and fina, where
differential systems hinder fair competition among private, collective (township and village),
state, foreign, and Sino-foreign joint venture eneprises. As regional experiments are chosen
ad designed by the jurisdiction concerned, appropriateness to local conditions and commitment
to the process by local leaders is probably enhanced. Failed models are fairly rapidly abandoned
or altered, while successful ones spread from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
2.14         The major disdtction among the reform programs now under way is between
juisdictions undertkg full market liberalization which requires a tota redesig of the functions
of the local Grain Bureau system and its subsidiary entprises, and those where reforms are
focussed within the Grain Bureau system (e.g., converdng warehouses and other irstallations into
competitive entrises) or within individual Grain Bureau enterprises (manwement reform).
,I  Ihe impact of ths losses is reflectd in th accual of amras by Gain Bureau ntprises to the
stwned baks, pnwcipaly the 1nutrial and Commri Bank and the Agcultural Bank of
China Tese anes are lrgely due to the inability of the finaci da   at various levds
of government to fidly cover nterpise lose (including policy losses).



- 17-
Prior to the very recent extension of grain price deregulation to four fifts of the country (para.
2.2), jurisdIctions where total deregulation of grain prices and allocation had bee adopted
included the entire provinces of Guangdong, Zhejiang, Hunan, and Jiangil, and smaller
jurisdictions in the provinces of Shaanxi, Sichuan, and Fujian. In such areas, the functions of
Grain Bureaus are reduced to maintaining government-mandated reserve stocks and market
regulation, while Grain Bureau enterprises are forced to compete with private traders and
enterprises previously not engaed in grain trading. Experience to date shows inial losms of
market share by such enterprises, followed by a period of recovery while they adapt to the new
environment, and regain substantial market share by capitlizing on their competitive assets
(physical facilities, skilled staff, contacts in the trade, location, customer loyalty, etc.). In most
such jurisdictions farm procurement quotas are being phased out, the three4inkage' policy
(para. 1.14) is being abandoned, and procurement is based on contracts negotiated between
enterprises and farmers or vfllage farmer groups.
2.15         Unresolved problems of state-owned enterprises (i.e., those managed at the
provincial, prefectural, city, and county levels) include: (a) continuing obligations to fund
general welfare and governmental functions, such as schools, hospitals, poor relief, and food
security reserves; (b) pension obligations, not relevant to newly created entetprises; and (c)
backlogs of low quality, frequentily stale ration and reserve grain, which is inferior to the new
grain turned over by new enterprises. Solutions to the fist and third problems will require
continuig efforts by localities to separate government functions from enterprises during the
reform process, and to finance them from government budgets. The second issue is so pervasive
in China, and of such concern to its aging urban population, that a national program is required
for its resolution; a housing and social security project is now being prepared for Bank Group
financing to address this issue.
2.16         In areas where total liberalization has not occurred, consumer subsidies (covering
the costs of the distribution system) are still operative. Here an approach pioneered in Tianjin
(para. 2.9) and now commencing in Hunan Province, Qiqihar City in Heilongiang Province,
shan City in Shandong Province and other areas, is of interest. First, Grain Bureau installations
throughout the region are converted into autonomous enterprises. Second, the entire esdmated
loss due to mandated subsidies is allocated to a special account; these losses to be borne by the
local government. Finally, a fee structure is established for various operations (e.g., storage,
truckdng, milling, delivery) which would enable the Government to break even on ration supply,
on which the numerous new enterprises bid in terms of quantities, and from which they and their
staff are free to retain profits after company taxation. The new enteprises also compete on free
market terms for all nonration business, including higher quality grain, animal feed, industrial
(e.g., alcohol) and bakery goods, restaurant supply, nongrain storage and distribution, etc. The
benefits from this reform approach range from multimillion dollar ammnal savis in municipal
government operating costs (due to more efficient use of facilities, vehicles, and manpower) to
multimillion dollar additional savings in urban grain storage investment. Additionally, this
process assists in preparing Grain Bureau enterprises for competitive markets In adwe of total
market liberalization. This model appears particularly appropriate to urban systems, where
enteprise density ih sufficient to offer gemiine possibilities of competi   In rural areas, with
dispersed procurement, a different paradigm may have to be developed (perhaps including
farmers cooperatives).
2.17         An approach, particularly applicable to smaller installations such as retai grain
shops, includes contract management whereby managers are selected through a bidding process



- 18-
involving net dividends to the Grain Burea. In some areas, shops are leased to Individuals or
wife/husband teams, and shareholder buyouts by employees have occurred in rare cases.
Shanghai recendy charteed the first large-scale joint-tock grain trading company in China. At
the other extreme, some nual counties are consolidating grain procurement depots into single
companies to compete against large higher-level monopsony grain purchasers and to extend
markedng forward to consumption centers, to maximize prices to local farmers.
D. JVIVRE R1FORMS
2.18         Progress has been made on price deregulation, but It still remains the locus of
the future refbrm and a critical step for the transition fom a planned economy to a market
economy. In 1993 reforms the three-linkage policy will continue to be progressively eliminated,
food ration coupons wil be withdrawn from circulation in areas where grain prices have been
deregulated (para. 2.2), and controls on grain varieties and varietal price differentials will be
lifted. The state's grain and oil procurement, allocation and ration sales plan also will be
eliminated, and grain prices will be mkarket determined. The deregulation process is expected
to be completed within two or three years throughout the country except in a few impoverished
areas.
2.19         To protect farmers' and consumers' interests against sudden and possibly
catastrophic price swings, a system of consumer price ceilings and producer floor prices is being
designed, which the Government announced in February 1993 and anticipates will be introduced
nationwide during the next three years. Under this system, market prices will be free to
fluctuate within reasonably wide price bands. Floor and ceiling prices will be enforced, when
necessary, by procurement and sales from the State Grain Reserve and other indirect means.
2.20         Enterprie Reform. The revitalization of state-owned enterprises is also key
to the eventual success of the reforms. On the basis of experience under both limited price
deregulation and full deregulation (e.g., in Guangdong Province), specific reform packages can
be tailored to the peculiarities of local conditions. The separation of governmenta and
administrative functions from enterprise functions, including responsibility for providing social
welfare services and the financing of policy" losses, must be hallmark elements in enrprise
reform. To reduce future operatng losses, financial restructuring may be required. The
extension of the shareholding system to grain eneprises, encouragement of domestic and
international joint ventes, and use of management contracts could lead to a transfusion of
needed investment capital and infsion of management and marketing sklls. National legislation
to establish social welfare and labor force adjustment programs, if properly conceived, wiU
improve the "extal evionment for enterprise reform. Grain sector enterprise restructring
could also benefit from socially organized unemployment insurance programs, labor exchanges
and work force retrahining/reeducation schemes to accommodate the inevitable labor force
reduction.
2.21         State grain reserve management requirements should be carefilly identified and
financed to ensure that Grain Bur   enterpie are able to respond to commercial opportunites.
Contracts for mainning reserve stocks must be let on commercial terms, i.e., with the
Government treated as a commercial customer, with remuneration rates for services (storage,
handling, etc.) detemined through competitive bidding. Exceptions to this policy may be
required during emergencies, but normal operations should be on commercial terms. A side
benefit would be full disclosure of the costs of maintaining huge reserves.



-19-
2.22                     fomew   or Compedon.  Itb conditions undr which grL  sector
entprises operate must be equalized to promote a symbiotic rdationship betwee the state and
nonstate sectors, and permit effective compoeon. At present, the stat_e d grain enteris
enjoy financal and credit Incentives unavailable to nonstate aetpris and In some locaes
benefit from geneous payments to manta  strategic reserve stocks. Also, Grain Bureau
enterprises use state  ed fixed capital fvee of chawe. Alternatively, nontat enrpris
typically enjoy prent  tax trme, have few soci  obligation to their work force
(penion, social welfe progrms and payments, etc.), have the flexibilty to accommodate
inten  management and employee Incentive systems as needed to improve efficiency and reduce
costs. lhey also have the flexibility to adjust employee numbrs, skills mix and other operating
expenditures to changing business conditions-options which few state enteprim   enjoy except
in the most advanced reform locales. Nonstate entiies enjoy more  raional ad management
flexi-bility than do most Grain Bureau enterprises, but in many part of the country they still tend
to suffer uoverheadu associated wih obt    (and retaini) pemission to remain in operaon.
Also they must amordse their own investments; a finana acdon tha should be required of
Grain Bureau enepr    once given operional autonomy and mnagemen flexibility to opere
commercially. The gradual rectfication of these differe  betw    stateowned and _nstate
grain entrpri  has begn at the provincial level in Guangdong and Shagi, and in many
locales at the county level.
2.23         Reform of    Mnste  Instludons. Goverm              institutions responsible
for grain management are now downsizing their administrative departments and reducing staff
numbers, to focs nore on support of grain marketing functions such as forecast   and
indicatve planning, coordination, s sion and the provision of market information services.
Also, the erablishment of informaon networks is high on the Government's policy agenda
Other tasks include the adminitraton of standards to maintain acceptable levels of hygiene and
sanitation, entuprise liceing, supervision of grain traftag actidves and the mantna    of
overall supply and demand balances.
2.24         Safety Net. The Govrnment is miu  hat grain price deregulaion, the
inception of entprise reform and the downsizing of administaive deatment could pose
hardship for pensione  and other vulnerable segments of society, as well as to redundant staff
in the MDT. However, the immediate impact of price deregulation has been mild, increasing
the average pensioner's  penditures on grain to a level of about 25 percen of their cash
income. As most pesi       continue to reside in housing pvied by their work units, and also
receive considerable noncash benefits, this level of  ditue  is acceptable. Nonetheless, cash
supplements are provided in most locales to ease the adjusment



-20-
3
TE lPROJECT
A. OmEcvs AND SCOnE
3.1          Mm. primay objectives of the project are to: (a) support the Government's grain
sector reforms aimed at improved policy and Intitutional enviroments; (b) assist instiuonal
and infastructure develoment in physical and commodity (wholesale, spot, forward and futes)
markets where gain and other agricultural  mmody prices would be determined by market
forces; and (c) fiitate the epansion and greay impve the efficiency of China's domestic
and intenton  grain tade thrugh investments in critical infastucte in four important
coridors in the Noreast, Yangtze River area, Southwest, and Beijing,I in grain storage,
bulk and baged handling, and transport facilities. Although the locatons proposed for
infrastructure ivestment (NEC, YRC, and SWC) are major producingconung regions, they
were selected more for ther imporce in intemational and interregional trade.
3.2          Increased producin and mareted surpluses of maize and soybeans in the
Norestern region, rice in the middle and lower reaches of the Yaqgtze River region and the
genal incased demand for maize (as livestock feed) and wheat (as a food gran) have created
a need for more efficient and higher volume grain marketing and distributo networks. Given
the complexity of isses that affec marketing efficiency, this project marks only the initi step
in addresig ts enormous tasL. The project will introduce an ingrated bulk grain hanling
system in the Northeastem provin  capole of evacung 9.1 million tons of feed grais and
importing 3.0 mIlion tons of wheat. Complementay bulk handling facilities wil be provided
in some of the major feed grain co   n  areas, namely in the YRC and SWC and the
Beijing region. Also, the   lies in the receiving regions will be used for bulk importation of
wheat and in the case of YRC for bulk shipment of paddy rice. Building upon the momentum
of recent reform successes (paras. 2.2 and 2.3), the project wil support additional refotms to
further liberalize pries, commeril  grain enspris, and stmuate market competition
(paras. 2.18-2.24 and Almex 2. The logistical network introduced would service only a small
portion of the maketed grain but it would repreent a sizeable proportion of Chinas
Iterationally and i onally   ded grain.
1I T Ib coridod are idoutified as: (a) the Northest Conidor (NBC) coprising the provinces of Jilin,
Liacuig, Heloijaug, and fou e    leagues of I    M hngolia; (b) te Yngtze Rve Cordor
(YRC) copngtheo sof tep             of rigsu, Anhwi, Jisnx, Hubei, and Huan which
radily wat a        l  (c) the Souwes Coidor (SWC) comprising the provine of
Gua, Gutdoau, and Yun; and (d) the Beqiig Conidor comprs  Ii, Beijing, Sbanri,
ad wester as of Ine Mongolia.



- 21 -
B. DErAID FEATURES
3.3          Progrmmtic Nature of Project. The proposed project must be seen as the
initiation of a condnuing program in which components will repeatedly change in capacity if the
program is well-managed. It would establish a new systems technology which, to have an
impact on a country as large as China, must be constructed in numerous locations over great
distances, in a standardized compatible fashion. But the system must remain flexible, continuing
to change in response to changes in domestic and international grain markets. Thus, although
definite plans are being made for facilities to handle specific estimated throughputs at each of
over 70 railway depots, five seaports, four river ports, numerous primary depots, and several
commodity markets, in each case leeway must be left for changes in design up to the stage of
tendering. This Is paticularly true given the ongoing liberaization of the grain economy in
China; although the system has been designed for projected free market flows, these are
notoriously difficult to project for agriculturl commodities over a period of decades.
Assurances were obtained that the Borrower [the World Bank Project Office (WBPO) of MDTJ
would undertake, jonwly with IERD/IDA, a mid-term reew of te progress of and prospectsfor
projectiMplementaionand developmentsInhegrainsectorbyJune330, 196. Thisreviewwill
consider, in addition to implementation issues, the following: (a) grain harvests, procurement,
and storage in the various regions of the country; (b) changes in grain policies, prices and
regional demands and their effects on potential throughputs of grain corridors, terminals, depots,
and facilities; (c) shifts in grain logistics caused by capacity and/or tariff changes for various
transport modes and possible changes in transport requirements; (d) possible introduction of
newly proven technology; and (e) possible changes in facility ownership or management
arrangements.
3.4          Project Description. Ihe project would provide, over six years, financial
support to introduce a bulk grain handling logistical system in four grain transport corridors,
improve domestic design and implementation capacity in grain logistics through technical
assistance and training, and assist in developing a grain marketing information network. The
project would: (a) greatly reduce the handling and transport costs for the outflow of some
9 million tons of maize and soybeans from Northeastern China through investments and
improvements in the Northeast Corridor component comprising two port temals (with berths
for seagoing vessels, grain loaders and unloaders for ships, silo storage, and high speed hopper
rail wagon loading and unloading facilities, and ancillary facilities) in Liaoning Province,
59 intermediate depots (IDs), strtegicaRy located on rail lines in high-output grain-producing
counties stretching northward through Liaoning, Jiln, and Heilongjiang Provinces and westward
into Inner Mongolia, and 279 suruding primary depots (PDs) serviced by bulk truck transport
services; (b) expand the inflow of wheat, maize, and soybeans by water into the middle and
lower reaches of the Yangtze River by more than 2 mitlion tons and the outflow of paddy and
milled rice by more than 1 million tons through investments in the Yangtze River corridor
comprising two dedicated grain transshipment terminals at the Yangtze River mouth,
four upstream river terminals, a barge shuttle service connecdng them and hinterland facilities
with supporting tramsport faciities; (c) complete and exaqd the bulk handling of the existing
inflow of wheat and maize ito Southwest China through investmen in Fangcheng port in
Guangxi Province, bulk receivig facilities at iterior IDs and a rail shuttle service to connect
the port terminal to these IDs; (d) demonstrate the efficiency gains possible in urban grain
handling and distribution by establishing a modern model grain depot on the outskirts of Beijing
consisting of bulk grain transfer and strage facilities and connected with the bulk wheat
receiving terminals in rTanjin and Qinhuangdao via a railway shuttle service; (e) assist market



- 22 -
development and instituonal strengthening through support to two wholesale grain markets, two
trnng centers focusing on technical grain handling and management, and an information and
resech center; and (t) provide technical assistance and training to assist in (i) designing and
Implementing the grain handling facilides and (ii) reforming the grain sector enterprises. In
addition, the project would ease congestion on trunk rail routes to Qinhuangdao and South
China, filly integrate the inflow of some 3 million tons of imported wheat (which is already
handled in bulk at Dalian Port) into Northeast China with the outflow of maize, and establish
substani quantities of bulk grain transport capacity on the Yangtze River. Principal project
grain transport flows, by transport corridor and grain, are summarized in Table 3. 1.
Table 3.1: GRAN FLOWS
(million tons)
1990            2000
Total Total
Component      Location           Grain   Flow   Flow      Project Flow
Northeast   Heilongjiang        Inflows                  Dalian   Yingkou
Corridor   Z. Inner Mongolia    Wheat       3.0    4.0     3.0
Jilin              Outflows
Liaoning             Maize    10.0   15.0       6.1       3.0
Soybean   2.7    2.7      1.0
Yangtze La Wuhan, Hunan,        Inflow:                      Terminals
River      Jianxit, Anhui,                               Mouth  Upstream
Corridor   and Jiangsu           Wheat     0.8    2.3      0.7         lb
Maize      1b    1.9    1.05        0.3
Soybean          0.3        -       0.1
Other                     0.3
Outflow:
Paddy                               0.4
Rice      1.7    3.5      0.6
Wheat     0.3    1.3
Southwest   Guangxi, Guizhou,  Inflow:
Corridor   and Yunnan            Wheat      1.0    1.1           1.0
Maize     0.9    1.3           0.6
Beijing     Beijing             Inflow:
Central                          Wheat      1.4    1.9           0.4
Depot                            Maize      0.9    1.3           0.3
Soybean   0.3    0.4           0.1
Total                                 23.2   41.0          19.0
aj  lhere are two transshipment teminas at the Yangtze River mouth, Nantong and
Zhangfiagang, which breakdown/consolidate shipments to/from the four upstream
terminals (project wharves). Tonnages listed in the upstream column refer to direct
shipments, e.g., not transshippedat the Yangtze River mouth. Total flows refer to
flows via the Yangte River and exclude rail shipments to/from destinations along the
river.
&   Les ta 50,000 tons.



- 23 -
Grain Tanspt Corridors
3.S         Norwiast Corridor. Marketed grain surpluses evacuated from the Notheast
in 2000 are expected to be 40 percent greaterhan in 1990. Ihe project wfll provide
infrastuctre to more efficiently handle a portion of the existing volume plus the expected
volume increase, by providing a bulk gran handling system comprising high throughput port
temnls intgrted with iland sourcing and drying depots through a bulk rail wagon shuttle
service and bulk truck delivery. The facilities would reduce handling and transport costs by
reducing port congestion, multiple handling of grain and physical and quality losses, and
eiminatig the cost of bags and bagging. The project would contribute to easing congestion on
both the tunk rail routes to the South and the Dalian general cargo berths which currendy
handle maize and soybeans as weU as other general cargo. Also, the integrated facilities would
handle the bulk inflow of wheat Imported into the Northeast and provide backhaul cargo for a
portion of the dedicated grain hopper rail wagons, furtier reducing grain distribution costs.
3.6          The Port termia facilities to be constructed include the Dayao Bay Grain
Terminal (D) at Dalan and the Bayuqtum Grain Terminal (BGT) at Yingkou, both on
Liaoning Province's southeastern Liaodong pemnsula. Facilities to be provided for the two
terminals would be as follows:
(a)    The Dayao Bay Grain Terminal would be constructed in the newly developed
Dayao Bay port area. The DOT would comprise a wheat unloading berth for
seagoing vessels of up to 80,000 dwt, two 30,000 dwt maize loading berths, two
1,200 tph ship unloaders and four 800 tph ship loaders, 300,000 tons of vertical
silo storage, high speed hopper rail wagon loading and unloading facilities as
well as staof-the-art conveying, weighing, sampling, cleaning, quality control,
process control, comnications, safety and environmental protection systems,
offices, workshops, and other site infrastructure.
(b)   The Bayuquan Grain Twminal would be built in the new Bayuquan port area
at Yingkou. It would comprise one maize loading berth for seagoing vesls of
up to 30,000 dwt, two 800 tph ship loaders, 100,000 tons of vertical silo
storage, high speed hopper rail wagon unloading facilities, and additional
facilities similar to those at the DOT, though of smaller capacity.
3.7         hnland fahiNtles. The project outflow of 9.1 million tons would be sourced from
59 existing intermetiate depots (IDs), strategically located in the high-output grain producing
counties. Most of these IDs would continue to handle some regional flows, primarily in bags,
but would concentrate on shipping properly dred grain in bulk hopper rail wagons. Ihe IDs
would receive the grain fom the 279 surrounding existing primary depots (PDs) and, to a lesser
etent, from nearby farms. Ihe inflow of 3.0 million tons of wheat would continue to be
delivered to exstng itegrated depots (lGDs) located in prime consuming areas.
(a)     tn ae Depots. Each of the 59 project IDs would be provided bulk truck
unloading and hopper rail wagon loading facilities with rail sidings and wagon
indexers, storage ifcilities for wet and dry grain, and systems for oonveying.
weighing, cleang, samplmg, quality and process control, communication,
safety and environmental control, as well as improved site infrastructure such



- 24 -
as offices and workshops. Mechanized grain drying capacity would be installed
in 43 MDs, which now lack tufficient capacity.
O)   Ptimary Depots. lhe 279 PDs surrounding the project IDs would be provided
facilities for storing dry grain, bulk truck loading, weighing, cleaning, sampling,
etc. Eighty PDs would be provided mechanical grain dryig equipment.
3.8          Transportation Sytms. The port temis would be connected to the inland
ficilities through a dedicated railway shuttle service comprised of bulk hopper rail wagons. Bulk
trucks would deliver the grain firom  Ds to IDs.
(a)    New Hopper Rail Wagons would be designed and built under the project to
facilitate more rapid loading and unloading. Outflow from the project IDs and
port termina8 sprojeted o be evenly distributed over the year; on this basis
an estimated 2,400 new bulk rai wagons would be required for the project flows
by the year 2000. As only 1,400 new wagons would be provided under the
project, rail wagon requirements to meet the incremental NEC grain transport
needs will be reasessed at the mid-term review (para. 3.3). An assurance was
obtained twat MDT would procure an addi*onal number, acceptable to the
ARIDA, of nwly designed system copanible raU wagons no later dtan
June 30, 1998.
(b)   Bulk Trucks. A total of 840 10- and 12-ton bulk trucks would be supplied
under the NEC component Part of the truck transport needs will be met by
existng trucking capacity.
3.9          Yargtze lver Corridor (YRC).  acture investment in the YRC would
improve grain handling efficiency and integrate three distinct grain flows; bulk inflow of
Northeastern maize and soybeas, bulk Inflow of imported wheat, and outflow, mostly bagged,
of rice and local wheat A well balanced logistical system would be introduced, comprising, as
key elements, two dedicated grain  s pment terminas at the Yangte lRver mouth, four
pstream river teminals, a barge shute service connecing them, and hinterland facilities with
supporting transport facilities. Ihe project would foster increased waterborne grain movemens
by providing an alternative to the highly congeste and limited capacity railway system. Ihe
project would permit gin consumers in the lower reaches of the Yangtze River to receive
Northeastern grain by seagoing vessel, which would reduce transport costs. In the middle
reaches of the river, between NanJing and Wuhan, the more efficient transport mode will likely
be location speciffic as budgeted transport costs of grain from the Northeast to these locales are
similar by rail and water-although rail capacity remains limited. Moving the imported wheat
in bulk instead of bags up the Yangtze River also would reduce costs in several ways, but
particularly by reducing the wnitinglloading times and demunrage costs of ships, boats, and
barges and elimnang the need for bags. Also, the outflow of rice and local wheat represents
backhau opportunities for the bulk grain barges shutling between the grain terminals in the
Yangtze River mouth and upstream destinations. Project wharves would handle only 40 percent
of the anticipated grain flowing through the Yangtze River mouth in the year 2000; the
60 percent balance would be handled at nonproject wharves.



- 25 -
3.10         Two grain terminals at the Yangtze River mouth would be upgraded under
the project. The project grain flows for upriver destinations or nurkets outside the YRC would
be partially transshipped at these dedicated grain termis.
(a)    The Zhangjlagang Grain Terminal (ZGT), on the southern bank of the
Yangte River in Jiangsu Province, would be upgraded for handling increased
throughput volumes in bulk. Additional investments would include vertical silos
of 55,000 tons, one extra berth for barges, new bulk unloading and loading
facilties for seagoing vessels and barges, conveying, weighing, sampling and
ancillary facilities. To permit ZGT to trmsship bagged cargo to nonproject
wharves, bagging facilities also would be included.
(b)   The Nantong Grain Terminal (NGT), on the northern bank of the Yangtze
River in Jiangsu Province would be prmarily a bag handling facility.
Investments would include 15,000 tons of vertical silo capacity, a berth capable
of receiving seagoing vessels of up to 30,000 dwt, additional crane-hopper
unloading and loading facilities, conveyors to connect the loaders and unloaders
with the existing warehouses, and gantry type bag stackers and reclaimers in the
warehouses.
3.11         Upriver Grain Terminals-Project Wharves (Ws). Under the project four
existing upriver terminals would be upgraded to handle the project flows upstream of ZGT.
Ewh PW is strategically located either in a major consuming area (Wuhan) or in a major
producing area and at the head of an extensive inland waterway system (TuJishan, Wushiji, and
Chenglij4di). Each project wharf would be provided with additional berths, new loading and
unloading faclties for vessels, bulk trucks, vertical silos and flat warehouses as well as the
connectig conveying systems and ancillary facilities. Improved rail wagons would be provided
for two sites which have hinterland rail connections.
3.12         Inland FaciEties (IDs and PDs). In the rver terminal hinterlands, excluding
Wuhan, grain sourcing and distribution capability would be improved by providing additional
warues at the intemdiate and primary depot level and extra berth space for barges of up
to 300 dwt at some of the IDs located on Yangtze River tributaries or lakes.
3.13         Trnsport Systems. The Yangtze River mout transshipment teminals would
be comected to the river terminals via a barge shuttle service. The river terminals would, in
tun, be connected to the hinterland facilities via rail, road, and/or water.
(a)    Bulk grain vessels. The vessels to be procured under the project would allow
efficient loading and unloading of bulk grain. Outflow from transshipment
terminals onto the Yangte River is projected to be evenly distributed over the
year. A mininmm of 20 barges of 3,000 dwt would be required for the project
flows in the year 2000; 10 woud be provided under the project, the balance
wowld be obtained under alternative fnncing.
(b)   Bulk hopper rail wagons. The new rail wagons would be identical to those
developed for the Northeast. Dedicated wagons would be required for two of
the PWs (Wushiji and Chenglinji); a total number of 38 would be included in
the YRC component



- 26 -
(c)    Bulk truds. A total of 133 10-ton bulk trucks would be procured for the
YRC.
3.14         Southwest Corridor (SWC). Theprojectwouldestablishafitlyintegratedbulk
grain distribution system in the Southwest, comprising a modern dedicated grain teminal in
Fangcheng port, bulk receiving facilities (at IDs and IGDs) in the interior and a rail shuttle
service to connect the port terminal to these Il)s. Bulk trucks with appropriate loading faclities
at the MIs would complement this system and would allow extending the bulk oriented system
much deeper into the hinterland. This bulk logistical system would make use of less costly sea
transport, eliminate the use of bags, ease port congestion and reduce grain losses. However,
following project implementation, It is anticipated that quantities of grain in addition to the
planned throughput of 1.6 million tons would likely continue to flow into the region by rail
(instead of through Fangcheng port) until such time that (a) distortions in rail transport pricing
are completely eliminated, and (b) construction of the Nanning (Guangxi) to Kunming (Yumm)
rail line is completed.
3.15         The major investments would include:
(a)    Fangcheng Grain Tenninal (FG¶I). TMe existing grain terminal at Fangcheng
port would be upgraded to handle the projected bulk inflow of 1.6 million tons
in the year 2000. An 800 tph continuous ship unloader would serve seagoing
vessels of up to 40,000 dwt at a dedicated grain berth, 50,000 tons of new silo
storage would be added and a conneaing-conveying system with ancillary
facilities would be provided.
(b)   Inland Facilities. The SWC project component would include construction of
bulk rail wagon unloading facilities at five existing IDs and IGDs, adding silo
storage at four of these depots. Also, facilities for receiving bulk grain from
trucks would be provided at six other inld deo, adding flat storage at two
of these depots.
(c)    Transport Systems. The FGT would be connected to the inland depots partly
via a railway shuttle service and pardy, for some of the nearby depots, by truck.
The IDs in the interior would in turn, deliver the grain by bulk truck to depots
in their hinterland. Under the project, 220 bulk hopper rail wagons (K17s)
presently operating in the Northeast would be transferred to the SWC. A total
of 90 10-ton bulk trucks would be procured for the SWC.
3.16         Beijing Central Depot (BCD). A state of the art bulk grai transfer and storage
faity would be constucted as part of a more efficient grain handling storage and processing
complex in Beijing municipality, connected to the bulk wheat terminals in Tinjin and
Qinhuangdao via a railway shuttle service. This facility would generate saving through reduced
port congestion, improved railway wagon turnaround times and facilitate bulk ral shipments of
feed grain from the Northeast and other surpls areas in China (e.g. Shandong). Three IGDs,
with antiquated pollution control equipment, located in the city center would be replaced by the
new depot, thereby improvig the urban environment. Also, valuable urban land would be
released for alternative use. The project would provide a high speed rail wagon unloading
system for bulk hopper and general purpose wagons plus 62,000 tons of sio storage, complete
with truck loading and ancillary facilities.



-27-
Sevices Components
3.17         Market Development. Liberalization of grain pricing and markedng has
progressed rapidly in recent years   adminsed pricing and mandatory state procurement have
become progessively less imortant Severd cash and forward grain commodity markets have
been established throughout China, incluting some large wbolesale gain markes (parm. 2.7).
Two of these markets-the Shanghai Cereals and Ols Exchage and the Zhengzhou Grain
Wholesae Market (Henan Province)-are, among others, slated for development Io futures
markets. For any of these markets to develop into futures mrkets, they would need to build
on their experience in operating spot and forward cash markets in developing futures markets.
These markets also suffer from the lack of current price Wormaton in other market locations,
limiting their effectiveness in efficient price determination. The project would assist in
alleviating this constraint through the provision of telecommunications equipment to rapidly
disseminate price and marketed volume statistics. Prces established in the futures markets wfll
be price refernce points as most free market gran tranctin wil be directly between trading
enities outside the formal markets; initay the contract delivery rate is expected to be about
20 percent as hedging, not speculation will drive the tradig, dectining to 5 percent (onsistent
with mature futures markets elsewhere) by 2000. Trding is expected to be confined initially
to 1.5 hours per day and 200 days per year. Initially, the Shanai futres market would trade
wheat, soybeans, and barley; wheat, soybeans, and maize would be traded on the Zhengzhou
market. Additional grains, oils, fish meal, and cotton would be added to the trading list as
experience is gained and commodities are decontrolled. The project would provide computer
and telecommunication equipment, anng, and technical assistance for two such markets.
3.18         Futures markets opere largel in a selfrelatng environment. Thus, the
design of by-laws and nternal rgulations for these exchanges is critical to facilitate their
evolution into genuine ftes market. The assistance of intnational consultants will be
required for designing appropriate by-laws, reglons and trading rles, for helping the
exchanges to orgamze a capability for supervision, and for providung on-site training for staff
and members of the exchanges. The project would support these developments for Shanghai and
for another market to be agreed, perhaps Zhengzhou. Assurances were obtaed atplansfor
estabishing the Shanghai forward and iaes mnuet and anoder such maret as agreed wih
IBRD/ADA,  cluding legislatie requirements, would be submitted to JBRD/IDA for revew and
commentprior to Decmber31, 1993 andJune30, 1994, respeely, andat dwtheplans would
be mplemented there*er, tkng Ito accou  the cmments of the JRD/4DA.
3.19         M namt Informafion Systems. The Commercial Inormation Center (CIC)
of the Ministry of Domesc Trade collects and dism ates pnce and market information,
provides market forecasts and is a major computer and software resource facility. A National
Grain Economic Information Center (GIC) is proposed to expand information output on grain
prices and volumes marketed in national and provincial wholesale markets and in city and
prmary markets, grain storage levels, and grain movements, thereby permittig improved
monitoring of market trnactions and warn of impending grain sutpluses/deficits. Ihe Center's
principal contibution would be the provision of daily grai  tg information, an ingredient
essential for efficient price detemiation. GIC would move beyond statistical informaton
management by undeng economic analyses of the domestic grain and edible oil markets.
Also, it would develop a forecast and waranng system based on grain and edible oil
supply/demand models. It would also provide WBPO with logistical support and computer



-28 -
facilities for the management of the project. Ihe project would provide computer network
systems with ancillary equipment, techbical assistace, and trainig of present and new staff.
3.20         Training Centas. To provide trning services for the project staff and to assist
grain sector reform and development generally, the project would support the establishment and
development of the China Traing Cente for Grain Distribution Management (CTCGDM) at
Nanjing College of Foo4ra  Economics and the Physical Distribution Research Cent (PDRC)
at Zhengzhou Grain College. Both CTCGDM and PDRC would be open to the public,
providing tra    to anyone involved/inerested in the gan subsector. The curriculum would
be dynamic to meet the needs and interests of trainees and would utilize various training modes
(e.g., case studies, emphatic programs, etc.). CTCGDM woud be oriented towards training in
economics and manaement while PDRC would offer training in grain engineering and
technology. At CTCGDM the project would finmce building renovation, computers, traning
and administative equipment, traing of college staff through study tours and consultant
trainers, and technical assistance for curricdum development and international perspectives on
grain distribution management. PDRC would engage in research, development, promotion,
training, and infomation trsfer relating to physical distrtion systems for grain and edible
oil. As a tlecal support organization for the various subcomponets of the project, PDRC
would inialy focus its trainig program on grain management, particularly storage and
distibution manaemet  The project would provide PDRC with financing for computer
facilities, research equipment, staff training and tchnical assistance. With the objective of
sustaning financial, managerial, and technological traing to the grain sector, assurances were
oabtaiedw CTCGDM and PDRC wosdd be established as faculdes/deparnmes/inslutes of
her respectve coUleges by December 31, 1994.
3.21         Project-Related Train . The centers mentioned above (CrCGDM  and
PDRC) wUI provide some of the training required by project, Grain Bureau and grain termina
staff, addressing policy and distribution management, and to a lesser extent, technical systems.
HIowever, as the project inoduces new techmologies to China, considerable additional skill and
maagement training, both external and domestic, will be required. A Training Coordinator
(C  will be appointed witin the WBPO to undertake two major tasks. Firstly, to develop, with
modest technical assistace, appropri  training programs for key managers within the of fice.
Ihe TC woud be responsible for identfying the skill levels requwired for managers within the
project office, determine the major skldl gaps, and plan/implement tailored training programs on
project, engineering, financial management, and personnel. Secondly, to establish and manage
a Training Unit witin the project office to plan and manage the training programs required for
proper Implementation and operation of the project's principal physical investments. Assistant
training coordinators would be appointed in the major  mal and coridor implemention
groups to assist in designing the programs. Responsibilities of the Training Unit would include:
(a) review the proposed orgaizational sue  and staffing levels for the standard project
componenat; 0)         trainig needs for the operaiona phse; (c) develop a trainn
masterplan and subsequeny, develop ad implement detaied training programs; (d) develop
stdard taining package outdines for key areas of grain handling, transportation, and storage
operation (ncuding mnus, addiona taning tools,   soom lectures, on-thoe-job tain,
etc.); and (e) evatuate training capacity of existing In-country and international training instites.
Although trainig will be required in many skill areas, the program would focus on skill
development in   () general management, (i) logiscs, ad  (iii) facility operation and
mainteance. Training plans would be prepared and furnished to IBRD/IDA annually as part



-29 -
of the overall project work plan (para. 4.2). Assurances were obtained that al1 project-related
training would be carried out In accordance with programs agreed with IBRD/IDA.
3.22         Tecinical Assistance and Role of Consultants. Aside from other objectives,
the project would introduce bulk handling and storage technology on a far larger scale, and on
a more systematic basis, than heretofore experienced by China's grain sector. Much of the
technology, equipment, and design techniques involved will be new in China, although proven
and widely utilized throughout the developed world. Thus, a fairly large input of international
consultants will be required, not merely to advise or review the work of domestic design teams,
but to lead them in designing complex facilities and equipment systems, and initial phases of
smaller facilities which will also incorporate new logistical and technical concepts and systems.
Once such work is completed satisfactorily, the consultants would gradually shift to advisory and
review roles. Their technical assessments, along with those of senior Chinese engineers, will
be required by te Bank at the various stages where Bank approval is required, such as final
design and specifications for bidding documents, evaluation of bids and recommendations for
award of contracts, and progress payments to contractors. The ultimate purpose of the extensive
involvement of foreign expertise is to ensure construction of efficient, economical and,
particularly, safe project facilities. Before the end of the project, China would possess a large
corps of grain engineers both highly trained and experienced in designing, constructing, and
operating modern grain facilities, independently capable of understanding such tasks anywhere
in China or abroad. International consultants will also assist in implementing the services
component and policy reform aspects-particularly enterprise reform (paras. 4.15-4.17)-of the
project. An assurance was obtained hat MDT and its  Iplementation agencies would employ
technica adisors, in sufficient numbers and with qualflcatlons, experience and terms of
reference, acceptable to  IRDDA, to ensure that project Implementation meets applicable
internal engfneering standardsfor design, consucton supervision, and commissioning.
3.23         Based on separate estimates for the phases of preliminary design, detailed design
and preparation of procurement documents, bid evaluation, and supervision of construction for
all investment components, an estimated 616 staff-months of internationally recruited consultants
would be required during project implementation, executed through 292 visits to China, with
408 staff-months of subsistence expenses in China. This estimate includes a small team of
central tedhnical advisors to the project office, to help establish and enforce national technical
standards and integration. Further technical assistance, required for Chinese design teams to
visit and further collaborate with international teams at their home offices, provision of some
computers and design facilities to be established in China (aside from those to be provided under
the project's services component), and operational and managerial support as facilities and
corridors are completed, is not reflected in the summary statistics given in Table 3.2.
C. STAS OF PfEPARATON
3.24         For preparation of the proposed project, the Ministry of Domestic Trade
organized, in early 1992, a central World Bank Project Office (WBPO) in Beijing, and staffed
it with the most senior engineers available in their headquarters units, augmented by other
experts brought to Beijing on a consulting basis from the Zhengzhou Grain College, the Nanjing
Institute of Foodgraim Economics, and operational bureaus around the country. They also
commissioned design teams in participating Grain Bureaus in the various regions, who were
visited and assisted fiequently by headquarters specialists responsible for the various corridor



-30-
Table 32: INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANCY REQuIBtMKmS
FO  GRAN TRANSOT CORRDRS
Consultants           Travel          Subsistence
(round trips
(staff-months)        to China)         (Months)
By Rexion
NE ports                     180                   76               89
NEC/Beijing                  213                   93               138
YRC                          101                   44                77
SWC                           68                   34               So
MDT Advisors                  54                   45                54
Total                     616                                   408
By Activity
Preliminary design           136                   47               71
Detailed design              202                   64               97
Bid evaluation                35                    9                 9
Supervision /a & advice    243                    172              231
Total                     616                 292               408
La Supervision includes detailed design advice for later NEC depot phases.
programs. Large teams of consultant engnee  from Canada, Australi, the Netherlands,
France, and other countries joined Bank Group staff on three technical preparaton missions as
well as project preappraisal and appraisal, to work with the WBPO and local Grain Bureau staff
to finalize project conceptua designs. The strong support of the Cadian, Austraian,
Netherlands, and French governmens throughout the exhaustive preparation of the project is
gratefully acknowledged.
3.25         Long-term estimates of regional grain production, consumption, import, and
exort volumes were agreed for each corridor. On the basis of detailed grain moisture and
weather records, mechanical drying requirements were separately esimated for the NEC. Flows
internal and external to the project were estimated and flows between traditional manual and
mechanized bag handling and modern bulk handling technologies were allocated on the basis of
projected supply-demand. Throughputs for bulk handling systems were established, and standard
equipment and civil works systems were selected; where system selection was uncertain, the
more robust and expensive alternatives were selected, to provide toa cost estimate ceilings. The
number and location of IDs selected for bulk handling investments were detemined by an
optimizing exercise which minimized discounted costs of additional constucion and equipmt
(more depots) and transportation (fewer depots). Computing and other equipment requirements
for commodity market enhancement were estimated on the basis of projected numbers of
transactions, in turn based on projected physical tunover, average size (Cn tons) of trnscton,



-31 -
and market delivery rates (the proportion of purchases retaned until fial delivery date rthr
than resale), allowing for a gradual progression from spot to fitmres tradig. The YRC
component was downsized after evaluatig alternative transport mode options (AMme.
3.26         Following appraisal, MDT immediately invited proposals for prelimiary design
work to be financed under a $2.5 million subproject of the RWom, Inukudonl  Support and
Preinvestn Project (Credit 2447-C ). Proposas havebeen received and contracts awaded.
Preliminary design work for all project components is scheduled to begin in May 1993. In the
first round, preliminary desigs would be iniltiated for only a portion of the NEC IDs (5 to 15)
and PDs. Design work for the remaning IDs and PDs would be completed in subsequent years
of project implementation. Building upon the feasibility study reports prepared by the WBPO
and its design teams and the Bank consultants' reports for NEC, BCD, YRC, and SWC, it is
anticipated that preliminary design work woud be completed between August (for YRC) and
December 1993 (NEC ports). Detailed desigp work for all components would begin immediaely
upon completion and approval of the preliminary designs. Detailed design of YRC facilities is
expected to commence immediately following project efftiveness.
D. ImLATINrA[ox ScQmEuL
3.27         Tne project would be completed over a si-year period beginnng in mid-1993.
Each of the major components would be implemtd independently. Imlementation schedules
are given in Annex 3. The NEC component would be the last to come fully on-stream because
of the massive construction work required both in the ports and hinterland. However, the
Yingkou port terminal (BGI) would come on-stream within four years (i.e., by June 1997),
allowing about 25 percent of the NEC logistical system to become operationa and facilitatng
bulk grain transfers to YRC and SWC. The dedicat  pain terinals in the Yang   River
mouth, where seagoing vessels would transship into barges, railway wagons and trucks, would
be completed first, by December 1996. Bagging would occur at these terminals until the
connecting segments of the logistical system could hadle grain in bulk For each major
component prelimnary designs would be completed within three to eight monts from project
appraisal (para. 3.26). Tender designs and the bid documents, in some instances based on
"performance type techical specfications, would be ready four to eight months later,
depending on the complexity of the component. Prequalification and tendering would be
staggered based on separate bid packages. This would allow long lead-tme items to be
contracted first. Training of operatng persoL* would start one year prior to subcomponent
completion. A large input of international consultants wfll play a key role in design work,
constuction supervision, training and commissioning (paras. 3.22 and 3.23).
E. PROJECT COSis AN FINANCING
3.28         Costs. The tota project cost, including physical and price contingencies, is
esdmated at Y 5.75 billion ($991.4 million). The foreig exchange costs are estimated to be
$486.8 million or 49 percent of the total. 'he costs include no significant tax elements;
imported materias and equipment are eempt from duties for Bank Group projects. The cost
estimates are based on unit prices prevailing for similar civil works and equipment prices valid
through March 31, 1993. Physical conngencies have been applied to most, not all, items at
varying rates; detailed component cosm are contained in   A . Price contingency estimates,
of 3.1 percent annual escalation, are based on the MUV index applied to all goods and works.



-32 -
Physical and price contingencies amount to $146.1 million and represent 17.3 percen of the base
cost.
3.29             All haning equipment (rail, ship, and barge loaders and ulioaders and
conveying fiities), rail wagons, trucks, vessels, dryers, and steel silos have been    ste  at
prvailing intnional prices.  Civil works costs are based on actual costs of recenty
contracted, higher quality Chinese concrete silos, warehouses, railway sidings and trackage.
Cost for tain          and Inifmaton cen    facilites wer based on curr    unit value coustction
costs for similar wor1S. Ihe cmst summary is contained in Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: PaoiWcr Cosr SUMAXY
4%4    .4                         V4.   N. 1
.~  ~    ecag .aec
tmdato  "pto             814.0      8.5   1,402.4   143.8    98.0   241.8          40.5           6.4
PrIasz7 DDepos          483.9    33.9    819.6   83.4    $7.9    141.3             41.0           16.7
Transport Iip4pasnt       76.8    397.2    474.0    13.2    64.5    81.7           81.8           9.7
er B lr C6~Iorrd          $X0       27S       419      14       4.       0*          45.1           12.5
LW           SE              -4 T*4   91T4  1 R 94I.                                 44-   if- Ae
Niuterleo . Dweta       t73.9      19.7      91.6    12.7      3.4     16.1        21.0            1.9
Tr ott                    20.5     67.9    108.4    3.5       1.2      1.7         61.1           2.2
9outht Corridor            99       141.3     20       11       24.4      .          5.7            4.9
Fort ieu*j                 I        I7      TIUT      7       T13      lET         U!
Ninterland D"epot        53.1      46.0    101.1    9.1        .3    17.4         47.5           2.1
t    rt         t         0.0      IS.0      18.0    0.0       3.1      1.1       100.0            0.4
eiii  Centr4 Depot         64.0      54.0    120.0   11.0         .     j7    ^ 4.1A                 A
c.    . and Tratnin,       fl.9     Jj                 j "      16.4    ad           60.0           3.7
brkat 8e e                  2.6 8 3            446.0                                 93.9           0.9
Shanjisi Maket           }1.4       7.2       8.6     0.2      1.2      1.5        83.6           0.2
2 1 ~baCoUeg,e            0.1       5.4       5.5     0.0      0.9      1.0        97.9           0.1
0.9      4.?       5.4     0.2      0.8      1.0        04.4            0.1
iclf*sa    tr c0.3                 16.6      17.0    0.1       2.9      2.9        9$.0           0.3
TOS so" Cost        2.494.9 2-407.4   4.902.5   410.2 f    H_3j    J45.          49.1         100.0
r18.2    178.7    363.9    31.9    30.8    62.7           49.1           7.4
Price                   244.3    237.4    48.6   42.4    40.9          U.4         49.1           9.9
T     otal Proect GMat  9L6.A   2.63.)                                                        117. 3 991.4  JU.
3.30             FInancg.  The proposed IDA  Credit of SDR  118.9 mllion ($165 million
equivalent) and an IBRD Loan of $325 million would cover 49 percen of total project cost and
would cover all of the foreign exchange componem.  Ihe remain  project costs would be
financed by Central and local gover_nen   and enterprises (Grain Bureaus, Port Authorities,
etc.). The contributions are as follows:
$ million
IDA/IBRD                                490.0
Ceta Governmen                          300.0
Provinial and Local
Governm  and
Entprises                             ZQLA
TOTAL                           nu



- 33 -
F. PROmn
3.31         Procurement arrangements are summnarized in Table 3.4.
Table 3.4: SUmmARY oF PROPOSED PRocuREMr ARRANGM            s Ia
($ million)
Procurement Method
ICB     LCS    OtherLi   MBF.Lc  Total
Land acquisition                      -        -        -       10.6      10.6
(0.0)    (0.0)
Works                               312.0   251.1    60.0        -       623.1
(74.9)  (60.3)  (14.4)              (149.6)
Goods
Grain handling equipment          188.9    15.3    11.0        -       215.2
(188.9)  (12.2)   (8.8)              (209.9)
Transport equipment               107.7      -        -        -       107.7
(107-7)                              (107.7)
Training/tech. aset.                  -        -       34.8      -        34.8
(22.8)             (22.8)
Total                         608.6   266.4   105.8    I.          921.4
(371.5)  (72.5)  (46.01   (0.01  (490.0)
La   Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the Bank.
Lk  Includes small contracts, force account, shopping, direct purchase, etc.
L    Denotes non-Bank Group financed.
3.32         Works ($623.1 million). Works contracts with estimated costs of $312.0 million
will be procured using ICB procedures. This includes civil works for the two port tenninals and
selected large IDs in the NEC, two port terminals at the mouth of the Yangtze River, and a port
terminal at Fangcheng. Qualified domestic bidders will be eligible for a 7.5 percent preference
in ICB bid evaluation. Other civil works estimated at $251.1 million, Involving smaller
structures (small silos, warehouses, buildings, wharves, etc.) spread throughout nine provinces
would involve contracts less than $2.0 million. Too small and scattered to be of interest to
international contractors, these would be procured using local competitive bidding (LCB),
following procedures acceptable to the IBRD/IDA. Works such as rail sidings and utility
construction (primarily electricity) which, by their nature, must be carried out by specialized
personnel of the railways and utilities concerned, will be undertaken by regional raUway and
utility companies under direct contracts, not exceeding $1.0 million each, with an aggregaw
value of $35.0 million. The remaining civil works (small warehouses, unloading pits, etc.)
would be carried out under small contracts let after comparison of three quotations or under
force account operations; each small contract or force account operation would not exceed



- 34 -
$100,000 in value wlt an aegate limit of $25.0 mUlion. Quasi-commercial cost records
would be m ained for rc  aount opations and disln -swould be based on records
of physical progress, not on reimrset  of input.
3.33         Goods ($322  milon). Goods will be combined in packages to the extent
possible to generat compe_tion. Equipment, materis, rail wagons, bages, and trucks wit
an estimated cost of $296.6 million, would be procred under ICB proedue. Qualified
domestic bidders will be digble for a 15 peret preference In bid evalui, or custom duties
and import tax payable by a noneempt importer, whichever is the lesser. The baance of the
equipment and materials, principally small iems, would be procured tugh LCB procedures
(tot $15.3 million or 5 percent of the goods) and shopping (total $11.0 ml}lion or 3 perce);
each opeation would not exceed $200,000 and $50,000. respectively.
3.34         TechnIcal Assstan  and Tailning ($34.8 mllien). Domesdc and iational
consutants employed to assist in project design and Imlementation will be selected in
accordac  with Bank guidInes.  Much of the training rered will be undertaken by
xistig or project finaced, domestic Institudons, but a considerable amount will be provided
by external entities. Technical assbtance and intnIona training, reimbursable at 100 percent,
will be subject to prior IB IDA mrview. Domestic training will also be 100 percent
re i mbu rsable.
3.35         Review of Bid Documents and Contrcts. Bid documents   for all works
in excess of $2.0 mion and goods in excess of $200,000 procured by ICB wil be subject to
prior review by the IB1D/IDA. Prior review of consultats' cn   under $100,000 would
be limited. Tis would involve multiple work contras and goods package, and 10 consutants
contrcts over the six-year life of the project. Prior review would cover about 85 percent of the
procuement by value. Both ICB and LCB wi use sample bid documents issued by the Ministry
of Finan  for Bank-financed projects. Al other contracts will be subject to selective review
after bid awards.
G.          E M
3.36         Disbur      for wodrs and goods contra over $200,000 equivalent, and for
all consultant contract, would be nmde on the basis of full docum on. Disbursement for
contracts for works and goods below $200,000, and all   ing would be on the basis of
Staements of Expt    (SOEs). To fitate d                a Special Account will be
established in a bank acceptable to the IBRD/IDA. The Special Account will have an authorized
allocaon of $20.0 mfllion which is the four mon  estdmated average disbursement though the
Account. Applicatio  for le      t of the Special Account would be submited monthly
or whenever the Special Account is drawn down to 50 percent of is initia deposit, whichever
comes first
3.37         Ihe project is ected to be completed by June 30, 1999 and the dosing date
would be June 30, 2000. China enjoys a fvonrable record in project implementation and
-IGuiddesw fiw Use of Cimsutant by Wodld Bank Boxwmer and by World Bank Executing
Agencies, Augs 1981, ad  Cosltnt Emlyment Randbook,' Dcember 1989.
1  Includes prdol noie of invtatin to bid, bid documen, bid ealutio and contacts



-35-
disbursement superior to ank Group and Asia averages. The project disbursment profile is
consistent with similar projects In Cbina. Proceeds of the IRD/IDA Loan/Credt would be
disbursed as Indicated In Table 3.5. Ihe disbursement schedule esmate is given In Amex .
Table 3.: DisDus  ARsM
Category                     Amount              Percentage
disbursable           disbursement
($ million)
Works                         149.6    242 of total expenditures
Goods
All except rail wagons   267.7    1OOZ of foreign expenditure.;
Rail wagons                  34.9    1002 of local expenditures (ex-
factory), 751 for goods procured
locally
Training and Consultant        22.8    1001 of total expenditures
Services
Unallocated                    15.0
Total                    490.0
3.38         Due to the necessiW   for expeditious completion of the desin work and the
limited foreign exdhange available from alternative sources for employing hmal
consulta, reoactve financig is       ed  for expenditures for technical assistance and
desip equpmet (primarily compus) incred aftr March 31, 1993 and the dat of signing
of the Loan/Credit Agreemen. The tot disbursable amount would be $4.0 milion equivalent.
H. Accouins AND AUoiT
3.39         The various project impl ion offices would maintain records of all project
componen expenditures. These records would be firwarded regularly to the WBPO, whose
financi secdon would consolidate the acou  for rviaew and audit. Assu s wre obtane
tt cnsolated accont would be maktabdwbr anl auditing by audio  acceptabl to
IBRD/IDA and that te ated accots, ncluding te Specil Accout, together with the
auditors report wvuld be suhnbt  to  RDMIDA wthin st monts of the dose of eadcflscal
year.  Audited accounts include: the Specl Account, detais on withdrawals firom the
Loan/Credit account made on the basis of SOBs, and the auditors opinion as to whether such
withdrawals were made again  expenditures eligible for 3RD/IDA disuen
L  ENVIRONMENTAL IPACT
3.40         Grain handling facilities such as des and trminals, when properly deigned,
opeaed, and maintained, do not normaly impact negatively upon the environmnt  A



- 36-
workforce trin  in good grain management and operational practices combined with available
technology wil mitga posble negative envir al Implications. An environmental impact
assessment (A) undertake by the Chinese Research Academy of Environmental Scieaces and
approved by the National Enviromenta Protecton Authodty concluded the project would
provide positve environmental benefits; to mitigate the potenti for explosions the latest dust
control technology will be employed in sflos, often where no dust control has heretofore been
practiced. Insect control wil focus on infesion preventon and fumigation will be employed
only for treatmen, not prophylactically. As the silos/vwh   to be constucted will be
tightly sealed, less cheical materials will be employed when fumigation is necessary, thus less
materi  wl be vented to the atmosphere. The increased volume of grain produced will,
however, require additional drying (coal fired) capacity. Thus, there is the potential for
Increased particulate and gaseous emissions. However, this will be minimized as modern
equipment, which captur  more of the emisions, will replace much of the older equipment.
The EIA report also concluded that it was unnecessary to establish a separate environmental
monitoring program for the project as exisig monitoring facilities relafting to railway, highway,
waterway, and harbor traffic were sufficient. The report noted, however, tha the pollution
problems specific to grain handling, dust control in loading/unloading and storage and fumigation
were best monitored by the grain depamet themselves. In this regard it recommended that
in silo complexes and in teminals/depots where fumigation is undertaken, a designated officer
be charged wi& eimenl monitoring responsibility and that training courses in handling
and monioing be prvided to staff involved In dust control and fumigation. Assurances were
obtabned tat:  (a) al project actves wo,dd ompry with envinmental standards and
guidelines satisacy to IBRD/IDA and aU measr  necessary to mtntmize and mitgate the
project's adwrse envionmental Impact would be taken In a manner sat)ory to IBRDIIDA,
and (b) the recmmedatons In the EnnWment Assessmnt Report, Iuding the training
program, would be ncluded In the anu  worprograms fonvardW  to 3RD/IA and would
be implemented as specd.
3.41         Although the project comprises a total of 384 sites In 12 provinces, all of these
sies are now in existence. Consequently, very little land wfll be acquired under the project and
involuntary resettlement would be extremely limited. At present, about 52 households are
epected to be resetded under the project. An assurance was obtakied tht the Government
would ensure thany persons vo are lwwatarUly resealed 1b the project are provided with
qaproprae cn sation for assets, logcal spo for moving and adequate relocation
grants as agreed with the Associadon and the Bank
3.42         The conversion of bag gain handling to bulk handling will displace substnal
amounts of seasonal bag handlig labor at the inland depo. The casua laborers are, largely,
farmers who supplement their income throu  various sideline actvities, including seasonal bag
handlng. To the extent that this acity will be reduced, ural household income will be
reduced. However, the increme    net income made possible by more efficient grain marketng,
and thereby from increased grain production, Is expected to be several times greater thm income
lot togh bag hadling displace



- 37.
4
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.1          As many project activities will involve ministries other than Domestic Trade, a
Leading Group for project implementation has been established under the leadership of a Vice-
Chairwoman of the State Planning Commission, with member representatives from the Ministries
of Domesdic Trade, Railways, Communications, Finance, and Trade and Economic Cooperation,
major participating provinces, the People's Bank of China, and the National Taxation Bureau.
The Leading Group would provide direction and support for the project and facilitate
coordmation among ministries, and between provincial and central governments and other
government agencies. It would be responsible for resolving major project related problems.
A. IMPMTATION MANAGEMENT
4.2          As the responsible government entity, the Ministy of Domestic 2ade has
established a project leading group (PLG) chaired by the responsible vice minister to ensure
effective and timely implementation. Its primary responsibilities would be to formulate project-
related policies and plans, review and resolve financial, technical and other project related issues,
approve subproject design studies and implementation plans, and mobilize counterpart funds and
loan repayment. Routine implementation management would be delegated to the World Bank
Project Offlce (WBPO) of the Ministry of Domestic Trade which would be expanded and
adequately staffed to properly implement the project, including regional project implementation
offices (R1MO) In each corridor to liaise with local authorities and assist in corridor
implemenation. MOF and the WBPO would prepare onlending and project implementation
agreements with each project entity. An assurance was obtained that the terms of onrending to
project enties would be at the IBRD rate, or such lesser rate as IBRD/IA may agree, taking
into account market rates and capaciy to repay, with a repayment period of 15 years, inclusive
offive years' grace period, with commiment charges and foreign exchange risk borne by the
respectve benefclary. The loan for each project subcomponent would be conditional on the
owner acceptng design, procurement, and policy input from the Ministry of Domestic Trade (in
consultation with SPC and the Ministries of Communications, Railways, and Finance) through
WBPO and acceping approval mechanisms giving WBPO effective control over what would be
implemented and how it would be implemented. Major responsibilities of the WBPO would
include: preparation of subproject designs and detailed work programs, accounts and progress
reports; arrangements for counterpart funding, procurement, training; in cooperation with the
ultimate beneficiary-owners (port terminals, grain bureaus, and enterprises) monitoring and
supervising physical and financial implementation progress; liaising with other central and
provincial government agencies as necessary/appropriate; and recommending solutions to the
PLG on emerging issues. Assurances were obtained thatthe WBPO wouldprepare andfrnish
a detalkd annual budget and work plan, Wuding trainng, acceptable to JERD/IDA by
November 30 of each year, ffr project Implementaon dte following year. Inernational
procurement would be consolidated through the WBPO. Under the WBPO a technical expert



- 38 -
group and a policy advisory group have been established. The technical expert group will
undertake technical design work, prepare subproject bidding documents and provide technical
advice generally. The policy advisory group consists of representatives from various ministries/
agencies concerned with policy reform and would provide policy advice relatng to the grain
subsector. Internaional consultants would be recruited to assist the WBPO and other entities as
required; they would work through the Expert Group under WBPO but would itea with
Provincial Project Management Offices, the individual owners of project subcomponents and
their desig staff. Assurances vwre obtained that throughout de duration of the project: (a) the
Leading Groqps aired by SPC and MDT, would be mantahed with composion, fimaons,
and responsibilities acceptable to IBRD/IDA; wad (b) the World Bank Project Office and
Provincial Proct Managen Offices would be stesd at levels, and maintained with functions
and responsibgites, acceptabe to lORD/IDA, Inluding a traidng coorditor and  8t   unit
witin WBPO.
4.3          Conidor Implementation would be facilitated by a regional Implemenaion
office (RPIO) in each of the corridors. The RPIOs would be responsible for coordinating and
assisdng with implementation in the respective corridors, exclusive of the major port terminals.
The RPIOs would work generally with provincial, municipal, and county Grain Bureaus in
designing and scheduling inplementation. They would liaise with the Provincial Project
Management Offices and other provincial agencies, coordinate ICB procurement with WBPO,
and be responsible for procurement of works and equipment for the intermediate and primary
depots (and project wharves in the YRC). Also, they would maintain consolidated accounts for
project activities in the respective corridors.
4.4          The complexity of the Dayao Bay Grain Teinal required the establishment
of a project leading group to ensure agreement, coordination, and timely prepaation and
implementation. This PLO, chaired by the Dalian Municipal Govemment and comprising
representatives from the Planning Bureau, Grain Bureau, and Dalian Port Authority, will provide
overall direction, ensuring the interests of al participants are appropdriately represented, helping
to resolve disputes and any interministerial issues that may arise, and liaising with central and
provincW governments. Day-to-day implementation would be delegated to the newly established
joint stock company which will own and operate the DGT and be responsible for supervision of
terminal construction and acceptance of equipment systems.
4.5          Project implementtion of other port termi , particularly Baynquan
(Yingkou) and Fangcheng terminals, also would be supervised by leading groups. Tbese leading
groups would be chaired by MDT, members would comprise representatves from the Ministry
of Communications, municipal and/or provincial authorities, and the respective port authorities.
The role of the leading group would be similar to that of the DGT leading group mentioned
above (para 4.4).
4.6         Implementing the corridor concept in the Northeast will require assistance and
investments by the Ministry of Raihvays. Railway receiving and inspection yards will be
financed as part of the DGT facilities but the terminal requires the construction of a rail
extension to connect to the main trunk rail lines as Dayao Bay port lies 21 km from the proposed
rail connection at Xigongtun. (MOR currently has under construction a 14 km extension from
Jinzhou, on the Shenyang-Dalian rail line, to a 7-track receiving-dispatching-marshailing yard
now under construction at Xigongtun.) MOR has completed designs for the 21-km spur between
Xigongtun and Dayao Bay porL The spur, financed from domestic funds, is expected to be



-39-
constructed and in service by December 1994, well before the DGT fcilities will be completed.
The spur will be jointly owned by MOR and the Ministry of Communications. An additional
25,000 meters of railway siding, required at the IDs, will be constructed by MOR under project
financing; ownership will remain with the individual IDs. 'he MOR supports the instalationluse
of rail wagon indexers (mechanical devices for moving and positioning rail wagons) at the IDs.
An assurance was obtained dtht the ral connector spur o Dayao Bay port wll be complted by
December 31, 1994.
4.7          Act  implementadon of project components nominally would be carried out by
(future) owners of the facilities, as indicaed below:
Project
Subcomponent             Ownership
DOT          A joint stock company with the following initial shareholders:
- Dalian Municipal Construction and lnvestment Corporation
- China Xiuliang Storage, Tranport and Trading Corporation
- Dalian Grain Impo and Export Company
- China Grain Trading Corporation
- Dalian Port Authority
- SAGR
- Heilongjiang Dalian Longliang Trade Company
- Jilin Grain and Oils Transport and Trade Company
- Liaoning Grain and Oils Trade Company
- Inner Mongolia Grain and Oils Purchase, Sales, Storage and Transport
Company
BGT           A joint stock company with the following inikal shareholders:
- Yingkou Grain Company
- Yingkou Port Authority
- China Xinliang Storage, Transort and Trading Corporadon
- China Grain Trading Corporation
- SAGR
- Heilongjiang Dalian Longliang Trade Company
- Jin Grain and OlUs Transport and Trade Company
- Liaoning Grain and Oils Trade Company
- Inner Mongolia Grain and Oils Purchase, Sales, Storage and Transport
Company
FGT           Guangxi Grain and Oils Storage, Transport and Supply Company
BCD           Beijing Municipal Grain Storage and Trsport Company
ZGT          liangsu River and Ocean Grain and Oils Trade and Transport Company
NOT           Nantong Grain and Oils Import and Export Transit Company
IDs           Respective provincial, municipal or county Grain Storage and Transport
Companies
PDs           Each PD s either owned by the ID to which it delivers the grain or by
county Grain Storage and Transport Companies
PWs           Owned by the local Grain Storage and Transport Companies
Rail wagons   Owned by MDT
Barges        Owned by MDT
Bulk trucks    Owned by the respective fcility from which bulk distribution by truck
occurs.



- 40 -
Conclusion of (a) the twO subsidliy loan and knplementation agreements between MOF and
MDTand the newly estabished Northeast Corridorport Grain Terminal Companies (DGT and
BGI) and (b) all of the project implementation agreements between MOF and MDT and the
project provies and nunidpalites woudd be a condiion of effeness of the Loan/Credit.
A signed agreement, satisfactory to the IBRD/IDA, between MDT and MORfor maintenance of
the new bulk hopper raU wagons would be a conditon of disbursement for the project rail
wagons.
4.8          The service components, comprising a Grain Information Center, two separate
futures markets, and two training centers, would be implemented by the respective
institutions/agencies owning the facilities.
B. OPERATIONAL MANAGEMEN
Corridor Operations
4.9          Grain handling and storage operations would be carried out by the individual
entities (PDs, IDs, PWs, etc.) which would each become a separate 'profit center." Standard
(published) fees would be charged for loading, unloading, leaning, weighing, drying, storage,
and other stevedoring operations (see para. 4.18). These &es would represent costs, based on
planned annual volumes, plus a reasonable margin for ris. and profit and would be approved by
central authorities. Fees would be adjusted amnually to represent identifiable unit cost increases
and changes in annual volumes. Profits could be retained, and additional loans could be
obtained, for new investments to increase capacity, efficiency, and/or scope of services.
Investment proposals would require approval from owner/shareholders of the facility. Accounts
would be audited annually by an independent external auditor. Grain quality inspections would
be carried out by a separate, independent agency. Weighing accuracy (scale calibration) would
be controlled by an independent organization as well.
4.10         Grain trading would be conducted by various entities, provincial and local Grain
Bureaus, other governmental and private sector enterprises. All trading entities (public and
private) would select and, paying the appropriate fees, use the various grain handling and storage
facilities/operations that best met their needs. Domestic transactions between grain trading
enterprises, processing enterprises (mills, bakeries, breweries, etc.) and traders will involve a
volume sufficiently modest to present no difficulty in consolidating and shipping the required
amounts. However, large international export volumes will require coordination within the
northeastern corridor: for this purpose a Northeast Grain Marketing Company (NEMC) would
be established, comprising representatives of the provincial and local Grain Bureaus, and the two
port terminal companies. It would be responsible for organizing the flow of grain from the four
provinces to meet export requirements and coordinate with MOR to ensure rail wagons are
appropriately dispatched. Assurances were obtaed tat nonstate sector enterprises would have
full access, at the standardpublishedfees, to thefacilities to be established and developed under
the project.
Dayao Bay Grain Termnal
4.11         DGT would function as an independent stevedoring company, charging standard
(published) fees for individual operations, similar to the facilities within the corridors. Fee
increases and investment proposals would also be treated in the same fashion. DGT would pay



- 41 -
the standard (published) fees for port serices, such as tU assistance, and would pay a flat
annual rental fee for using the berth and the site. This renal fee would cover capital and
maintenance costs accruing to the port authority, including any maimn   dredging required,
plus a reasonable profit margin.  The rental fee would be submitted with supporting
documentation to an independent accounting firm for an evaluation of its equitability and
subsequently approved by central authorities.
4.12         The allocation of Bulk Rail Wagons, in the NEC, to the vaious inland
destinations/origins would be decided by NEMC, based on requests fom the various gain
traders and in consultation with the Minstry of Railways. In the Southwest and Yangtze River
Corridors, raiway wagons use/allocation would be made by FGT and te assigned project
wharves, respectively. A long term contract would be available with the Ministry of Railways,
detailing the obligations (maintenance, repair, etc.) of all parties as wetl as the fee structure and
penalties for abrogating the contract. Fees for using the new bulk rail wagons would be
published, with appropriate bonuses-discounts-incentives for unit trains and rapid
loading/unloading. Fee changes would require prior approval from a central authority. In the
other corridors, the bulk hopper railway wagons would be part of a stevedorig operation and
would be treated in the same fashion as in the NEC. Allocation and bagescheduing would rest
with the operatng company designated by MDT. Barge fees would be published with defined
loading/unloading times and demurrage charges. Fee dhages would require prior approval of
MDT.
Market Services
4.13         The futures markets would be operated by the Shanghai and (perhaps) Zhengzhou
markets, supervised by the municipalities. The training centers at Zhengzhou and Nanjing would
be operated by the Zhengzhou Grain College and the Nanjing College of Foodgrain Economics,
respectively. The individual entities would be responsible for setting fees consistent with their
own objectives regarding profit and/or cost recovery.
4.14         MDT's Grain Information Center will have prime responsibility for
implementing the information system component of the project. Key to its success will be the
unfettered dissemination of current price and other market information via mass media and
dedicated information channels to all interestd agents in China
Enterprise Reform Arrangements
4.15         Implementation of enterprise reforms will be aided by technical assistance in the
project and monitored systematically during the anmual proam reviews. Coordination and on-
site monitoring will be effected through the Reform Advisory Group,]! established during the
preparation phase to advise on the policy package, through already established links and
reporting arrangements between participating agencies at the central level and subordinae units
at provincial, municipal and local levels (alteratvely the Rural Department of the System
Reform Commission may provide the coordination and monitoring).
I/  Members have been seconded fiom the Development Reseah Center of tho State Council, the State
Commissi  for Resructing Economic Systems, the Ministuies of Finance, Domesic TrWade, and
Agriculture, and several sdisical agencies.



-42 -
4.16         Enterprise reform arrangements in the project (a) will diffuse through China's
juai3dictions largely in response to provincW and local mandates, (b) must reflect regional
vulnerabuities to possible food shortages, includipg uneven abilities to respond to unanticipated
shortage, (c) must accommodate differing labor force redeployment opporties, and (d) must
be designed in recognition of uneven progress at the state and provincial levels In constucting
food and income safety nets and pension arrangements. The Reform Advisory Group/Rural
Department of the Systems Reform Commission will, prior to June 30, 1994, cary out
investigations with provincial and local authorities and devise prootypes and model programs
for the reform of Grain Bureau enterpriss.
4.17         Several of the project facilities will be cotucted in locales where enteprise
reform will be innediately possible, whedter set up according to the "rianjin Model', or under
conditions of ful price deregulation. Gai bureau enterprise reform programs would be
prepared for these project entities, during the first year of implementation, corresponding to
provisions of the Enterprise Law, and following their review with the Bank, implementation
would be initiated during the second year of the project. The Reform Advisory Group/Rural
Departnent of the Systems Reform Commission would have primary responsibility for
coordinadng the preparation of enteprise conversion and restructuring plans, where in their
judgment, enterprise reform could be succeflly implemented. Assurances were obtaied thdt
die Borrower would prpare and fuiwsh to IBRDIDA, a program for grain enteprlse rJm
acceptable to lRAD/IDA by December 31, 1994, and thatdte plans would be aInWedprior to
June 30, 1995.
C. Ftow OF Fums Am Cosr REoVEmy
4.18         The ownership of assets acquired under the project will devolve upon a wide
variety of enterprises and entities. Some of these are revenue-earning entities, though most
hinterland facilities (IDs and PDs) are not (paras. 2.11 and 2.12). Capacity for loan repayment
therefore varies between the different project enterprises and entites, and appropriate
arangements will need to be negotiated to cover the complex onlending arrangements to assure
cost recovery. Assurances were obtained      taff struturesfior nfrasntrute use would be
reforned to make rwft adequate to meetproject entityfinanclt requirments, Inclng annual
operations and maintenance expendures and loan obligadons.
D. MONITORING, EVALAIuON, AND REPORING
4.19         Responsibility for supervising and monitoring phyiical and financial
implementation progress of the corridor and warket development components would rest
primarily with the WBPO and RPIOs. The WBPO would prepare and submit to IBRD/IDA
semiannual progress reports, covering all components, by March 31 and September 30 of each
year. Also, the WBPO would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating policy and enterprise
reform, including impact monitoring; reports would be prepared and submitted, ad hoc,
conunensurate with the reforms executed. The WBPO and IBRD/IDA, with consultant
assistance, would undertake a mid-term review of the project by June30, 1996 (para. 3.3). The
WBPO would also prepare and submit a Project Completion Report to IBRD/IDA within six
months following the closing date of the loanlcredlt.



-43 -
E. ftojEcr LAUNCH WORKnSOP
4.20         To organize and initaproject implemenation, JBRD/IDA and local staff would
conduct a Project Lunch Workshop for staff of the RPIOs (all corridors) and selected
provincial, municipal, and county project offices. To be held in ejing within three months of
Board approval of the Loan/Credit, the purpose of the workshop woud be to review th total
program for implementation and to clarify tasks and responsibilities at all levels. Topics would
include INRD/IDA procurement nd disbement guidelines and procedures, financil
management, supervision, ongoing prediminary and detailed design work, environeta
assessment, and monitoring and evaluation.
F. BANIS GROUP SUPERVQ0N REQ
4.21         Given the complexity of the project, Bank Group supervision requirements wil
be vas:ly greater than usual. The geographic dispersion of the components, multiplicity of
project sites (particularly in the NEC), wide range of techical expertise involved in a broad
array of projevt componen  (market development, new rail car and barge design/construction,
new stintutional and management structures, new grain logistical system, etc.), and credit/loan
size will require an extaordinary supervision effort to ensure adherence to Bank Group
guidelines (procurement, audiftig, eavironment, etc.), timely implementation, and engineering
and management quality contol. Since the standard Bank Group supervision allocaion of
12 staff-weeks annually will be inadequate for this purpose (see Annex X, bilaterAl grt funds,
to be administered by the Bank Group, will be sought and applied to consultant supervision.



-44-
5
BENEFITS, JUSTIMCATION, AND RISKS
Project Benerits
5.1          The essential benefit of this project is to provide the logistical Infrastructure that
will make it possible, with modern bulk handling technology, to move grains at lower cost and
in larger volumes from grain surplus areas of China to deficit areas, thus overcoming the
inefficiencies associated with earlier attempts to achieve regional self-sufficiency. At present,
Northeast China has a persistent marketed surplus of maize and soybeans, while in other regions,
as diets improve with rising income levels, the previous strong growth in demand for fine grains
for direct human consumption is shifting toward growing demand for feed grains to support the
increasing consumption of meat, especially poultry and pork. Each of these regional problems
is the solution to the other, provided the grain can be moved efficiendy. In terms of volume,
maize is the most important grain in the project, but soybeans, wheat, and rice are also included
and will contribute important benefits of their own.
5.2          Conceptually, the flow of grain through project facilities will have two streams,
with differing benefits. Some of the grain would be shipped even without the project, though
in jute bags over congested transport links. For this flow, benefits take the form of cost savings
of Y 95 per ton made possible by the improved facilities. Shifting from bag to bulk handling
reduces handling costs, grain spillage and spoilage, and ship waiting time. For the remainder
of the grain flow, which could not occur at all without the project, benefits take the form of
value added to national income, estimated at Y 372 per ton of grain. Details of benefit estimates
are provided in Annex 6.
5.3          For the grain flows in and out of the Yangtze River corridor, the calculation of
project benefits warrants some additional discussion. As indicated earlier (para. 3.9), the costs
of shipment by railway or water to or from locations In the Yangtze River Valley can be quite
competitive, with specific local conditions determining whether rail or water is more efficient.
However, the rail links between the Northeast and the Yangtze River are severely congested and
expected to remain so for many years to come, even with the expanded investment in rail
capacity that recent tariff increases will make possible. Thus, the benefit of moving grain by
water is either that it frees rail capacity for other commodities or that it moves grain that would
not otherwise have moved at all. Either way, the benefit is a value added to national income.
Furthermore, a well-developed water route will give shippers an important alternative to what
is otherwise a railway monopoly.
F'inandal and Economic Analysis
5.4          The economic analysis presented below is based on project financial data, but
the data have been adjusted in three ways. First, investment costs have been corrected to reflect
scarcity values. For imported items, world prices c.i.f China have been used. For domestic



-45 -
items, quoted prices have been corrected by applying appropriate conversioni .ctors. Details
of these adjustments are given in Annx.  Second, some Items wbich are not included in the
scope of the project but are necessary for Its fll operation have been added to the economic
costs even tbough they do not appear in the financial estimates. An example is the fleet of
modem bulk railway wagons proposed for the Northeast. It is estimated that the project grain
flows will require 2,400 wagons, but only 1,400 wagons are included in the project financi
costs, with the other 1,000 wagons to be provided outside the project. However, the economic
analysis includes all 2,400 wagons (Anne%   Table 6.2). Lasdy, market senrices investment
costs are excluded from the economic analysis as it is not possible to quantify the benefits
generated by this component.
Economic Rate of Retum
5.5          The economic rate of return for the overall project and for its major
subcomponents can be summarized as fiollows:
NPV (at 12%)      ERR
(Y million)       (%)
Northeast Corridor            4,817.9          26
Yangtze River Corridor         975.7           31
Southwest Corridor             465.4           29
Beijing Depot                    9.5           13
Ove allPoect               6.214A           X
Certain benefits are made possible only if there is simultaneous modernizationof facilities at both
an origin and a destinadon. An example is the cost savings that arises from eliminating bags
when grain is handled in bulk. Such beeits have been allocated equally between the two
corridors in question.
5.6          Senstlvity tests indicate the project would remin viable even under improbable
adversities. A doubling of investment costs would reduce the ERR to 15 percent; similarly, a
50 percen reduction in benefits would reduce the ERR to 15 percent. Table 5.1 indicates the
ERR is relatively robust under various impletion scenarios. As the benefits for the base
case have been conservatively estimated, an increase in benefits is more likely than a decrease;
however, project implementation delays could delay the generation of benefits. Swching values
indicate the project would become ecowmically unviable only If investmt costs doubled and
benefits were delayed by two yeas (i.e., if full benefits were achieved only in 2002) or if
benefits were reduced to 40 percent of the base case.
RLsm
5.7          The fundamental risk in the project is that grain surpluses particularly in the
Northeast region may not continue as projected, thereby leaving unused capacity in the logistical
chain. However, the projections of grain surpluses are based on careful analysis done by well-
informed agrononists and agricultufr economists, and are considered rather consevative.
Surpluse will vary from year to year consistent with weather conditions, but these fluctuations
would balance in the long term. Another ridsk is that the project might not be implemented on



-46-
Table 5.1: SENSfrfI'M ANVALYSI
Kconmoic
rate of return
Scenario                                          (percent)
Base case                                             26
All benefits delayed 1 year                           22
All benefits delayed 2 years                          20
202 decline in Northeast Corridor maize flow          23
202 decline in benefits                               22
202 increase in investment costs                      23
20S increase in investment costs and
1 year delay in benefits                          20
202 increase in Northeast Corridor maize flow         29
202 increase in all grain flows                       30
schedule and on budget given is siz and complexity. To reduce this risk, considerable numbers
of tenical consultants, domestic and international, wil be employed throughout the
implemention period. lhere is some risk that the ongoing administive and governmental
orgaizaonal refrnm, which is reducing minis  staff numbers, could relt in the eliminon
of staff positions needed to manage and supervise project ileme   To minhize this risk
a commitment was obtaied that project staff number wol be maintaned at leves agreed with
IBRD/IDA (para. 4.2).



-47 -
6
AGRE:EMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6,1          Stae Council approval of the Development Credit and Loa Agreements and
conclusion of (a) the two subddiary loan and i lagrements between MOP and
MDT and the newly established Northeast Corridor port Grain Terminal Compasia (DOT and
BGO) and (b) all of tie projt   lemenIo agreement between MOF and MDr and the
project prvinces And muniai  would be conditions of feceess fbr the Loa/Credit
(para. 4.7). Submison of a signed agreement, satsfactoy to  RD/IDA, by MDT nd MOR
for maintenc of the DeW bulk hopper rail wagons woud be a condition of diburseame  for
the rail wagons (ua. 4.7).
6.2          At negotiations, assurances were obtined from the Govenment that:
(a)   the Borrower (MDT/WBPO) wold undertake, jointly with IBRD/IDA, a mid-
term reew of project imple   Aon  d reasessment of the grain sector, not
late than June 30, 1996 (pa   3.3);
(b)   adequft numbers, acctae to IBRD/IDA, of addtonal nw bulk hopper rai
wagons to met the requim   of the Northeast Corridor would be procured
by June 30, 1998 (par 3.8);
(c)   plans for mplementng the Sbanha And one other fur  market, induding
legitdve requirements, would be submitted to IBRDtlDA for review and
comment prior to Decmber 31, 1993 and June 30, 1994, respectively, and
would be implemented thereafter (para. 3.18);
(d)   the asining centers, CTCGDM and PDRC, would be established as facultles/
depatments/institutes of their resective colleges by Deember 31, 1994 (p
3.20);
(e)   training would be carried out under progrm  agreed with IBRD/IDA, And the
WBPO wodd prpar and furnish a doed annual budget and work plan,
including traing, acceptable to IRD/IDA by November 30 of each year, for
project Implementon the following yew (paras. 3.21 and 4.2);
(f)    MDT and project enies would employ tehnical adviors, in sufficientumbers
And with qaicadons, experiece, and terms of reirnce, acceptable to
RDIDA, toensuretbatproject Iplementationmeets internationalaegineering
standards (par. 3.22);
(g)   die WBPO and project entite would mahtain comol    accounts of all
compofmts for annu auditing by adio   acceptable to IBRD/IDA and tat the



-48 -
audited accounts, Including the SpecW Acount, together with the auditrs
report would be submiod to BRD/IDA within six monts of the close of each
financial year (par. 3.39);
(b)   projec sctivies would comply wi   Ironmental sndards sa    tory to
IBRD/IDA, necessay  miigaion  actions would be taken, and the
recommendations contained in the Evironmenta Asment Report, includiog
the training program, would be included in the annual work programs forwarded
to 1BRD/JDA and would be implemented (par. 3.40);
(i)   any persons involuntarily resettld under the project would be provided witb
appropriate compesation for assets, logistical support for moving and adequat
relocation gras as agreed with IBRDJADA (para. 3.41);
O)    MOF would onlend to project entities the applicable portion of the Loa/Credit
at the IBRD rate, or such lesser rate as IBRD/IDA may agree, taking into
account market rates and capacity to repay, wih a repayment period of 15 years,
inclusive of five years' grace period par. 4.2);
(k)   throughout the duraton of the project; (i) the Project Leading Groups, chaired
by SPC and MDT, would be maitined with composition, imctions, and
responsibilities acceptable to 3BRD/IDA, and 01) the World Bank Project Office,
the provincial project management offices, and the training unit would be staffed
at levels and m inaned with composition and responsibilities acceptable to
BRD/IDA (pai. 4.2);
Q)    the required rilway connector spur between Xlgongtn and Dayao Bay Port
would be completed by December 31, 1994 (para. 4.6);
(mi)   nonstate sector enterprises would have fbil access, at the standard published fees,
to the facilities to be established and developed under the project (par 4.10);
(n)   the Borrower would prepare and submit to 3BRD/DA plans for gain enterprise
reform, by Decembr 31, 1994, and the plans would be initdated prior to
June 30, 1995 (pars. 4.17); and,
(o)   tariff stuctrs  r infastucture use would be refrmed to me tariffs
adequate to meet project entity finacial rquemen, including annual
opeations and mainenance expenditures and loas repayment (par 4.18).
6.3          The WBPO would (a) prepare and submit a comolidated progress report to
IBRD/IDA by March 31 and September 30 of each year and (b) prepare and submit a Project
Compledon Report to IBRD/IDA within six months of the dosing date of the ioanlcedt's
disbursement (para. 4.19).
6.4          S*ect to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan
of $325 million for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate; and an IDA Credit of SDR 118.9 million ($165 mfllion equivalent) on standard terms, with
35 years maturity to the Peples Republic of Chia.



- K   -
ANNEXES



cam
Grain DiwtrLbutLon and Xarketing Proje@t
Total OrCAL  Produotion by Provinc
Region
provinoe         1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      198S     1986      197      198      1989      1990      1991
(thousand ton")
Northeast
8 ilongiLang  143625   12.500   11.500   1S,490   17,575   14.300   17,763   17 376   16,430   16,215   23.125   21,63
Liaoning   12.215   111,605   11,520   14.850   14,260    9,760   12,222   12,763   13,072    9,440   14 947   15,324
hJ                ,595    9,220   10,000   14,760   16,34S   12,2S3   13,977   16,756   16,932   13,513   20 46S   16,799
8ubtota        3 35   33,325   33020   45,120   48,180   36,313   43,962   46,897   46,434   39,168   56,537   55,956
worth
Be ing          1,860    15         1,6     55 2,   015 2,175m2,19 2  7   2,165    2,270    2,346    2,392    2,646    2,797
Tiafliin        1,380    1,070    1,225    1,110    1,315    1,40         1,576    1,677    1,583    1,698    1,889    1,9 5
bel           1'5,225   1,7'50   17,S52   19,0           7     19,666   19,65    19,200   20,225   20,6 6   22,769   22,6
Shanid          Ca85      75250    8,250    8,                   8,227    7,324    7,125    813    8,791    9,69           7, 24
Henan          21 485   23,145   22,170   29,500   28,932   27,105   25,457  29,464   2,1630  31,494   33,0370  30,10
9baads          75        7,832°Q   184750 0 8 9,250    9,650   10,235    9,519    9,655    9,879    963   10,493   10,707   10,470
Shandong       23,840   23,125   23,750   27,0   3,400   31,377   32,500   33,937   30,437   30,647   33,549   39,168
Subtotal       78,215   79,645   64,020   95 875  100,480   99,496   98,332  103,572  p9,017  106,201  114,287  114,634
Sorthwest
NeL Nonggol    3,965    5,100    5,300    5,600    5,945    6,041    5,2B5    6,070    7,383    6,918    9,730    9,585
Gansu           4,925    4,3S0    4,690    5,39S    5,395    5,305    5,510    5,294    5,933    6,445    6,907    6,576
2inghai           955       Soo       925      895    1,010    1,003        984    1,041    1,058    1,108    1,140    1,146
i   ia        1,200    1,1265    1,195     1,450    1,540    1,395    1,540    1,390    1,616    1,746    1,901    1,982
inLang        3,885    3,900    4,075    4,53        4,970    4,988    5,477    5,880    6,049    6,201    6,662    6,706
sutoa        14,930   15,413   16,185   17,875   18,860   18,732   18,796   19,675   22,039   22,418   26,340   2,9
MLYR
shanghai        1870    1,855    2,160    2,070    2,525    2,138    2,369    2,326    2,389    2,325    2,395    2,416
Jian~q.u       23,575   25,115   28,555   30,530   33,535   31,265   33,396   32,577   32165   32,578   32,308   29889
Zhejiang       14,355   14,195   17,125   15,835   18,170   16,213   16,051   15,890   15,536   15,447   15,861   16,788
Anhuli         14,540   1785        19330   20,105   22,025   21,680   23,719   24,28    2296    2385 2,52 1,1
Jiangxi        12,400   12,685   14,085   14,605   15,490   15,335   14,538   15,628   15,159   15,629   16,582   16,257
HubeL          15,365   17,070   19,960   19,875   22,630   221,161   23,045   23,207   22,594   23,704   24,750   22,441
Hunan          21,245   21,705   23,750   26,540   26,130   25,143   26,315   25,937   25,199   26,482   26,514   26,820
Subtotal      10 3,35   110,500  124,965  129,560  140,505  133,935  139,433  139,852  136,006  140,000  142,982  132,426
southwest
sLchuan        32,640   34,655   37,345   40,085   40,795   38,307   39,238   39,213   37,916   40,785   42,668   43,307
GuL:houZ        61,480    5,675    6,540    7,030    7,580      5950    6,723    6,732    6,360    7,083    7,210    8,855
Yunnan          8,655    9,170    9,460    9,5S45   10,050    9,350    8,700    9,348    9,402   10,002   10,572   10 ,930
Xizan             505       485       450      370       495       531      454       467       S05      550       555      580
subtotal       48,280   49,985   53,795   57,030   58,920   54,138   55,115   55,760   54,183   58,420   61,005   63,672
South
Guangdonlg     18,085   16,555   19,430   19,605   19,725   17,379   17,178   18,482   16,568   18,270   18,969   16,526
GunL       11,905   11,495   13 530   13,630   12,130   11,171   11,181   12,12   10,450   12,708   13,631   13,410
a  n    ~ 8,020    8,100    8,480    8,580    8,505    7,944    7,515    8,3903    8,186    8,846    8,796    8,897
r1n&an                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,198    1,518s   1,696    1,777
Subtotal       38,010   36,150   41,440   41,815   40,360   36,494   35,874   38,977   36,402   41,342   43,092   42,610
National Total 318,220  325,020  353,425  387,275  407,305  379,108  391,512  404,733  394,081  407,549  446,243  435,293
Sou-r-ces C-hiLn-a Rural Statistics Yearbooks (various issues).



China
Grain Distribution ad Marketing Project
Mais  Production by Province
RegLon
prowince         1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991
(thousand tons)
Heilo ong g   5,2Q0    4,415    3,280    4,635    6,420    4,118    6,320    6,461    5,930    5,888  10,083   10,07
Lianig          6,535    5,820    5,580    7,370    7,155    4,481    6,073    6,715    6,910    4,848    7,982    8,0223
Jilln             070      ,275    5,895    9,410   11 040    7,931   10,164   12,316   12,395    9.815   15,296   14,00
Subtotal       16,805   15,510   14,75S   21,415   24,61S   16,530   22,557   25,492   25,235   20,S51   33,361   32,299
8eiJing           890      78S       88S      835       955    1,067    1,079    1,140    1,140    1,131    1,309    1,394
TLaiLn            575      545       680      470       56        51      642       697      564       635      740       799
la n6.6                 6        7,250    6,905    6,400    6,789    6 862    7, 62    7,351    76733    8,92    9,06
Shanix          2,630    2,430    2,23S    2,130    2,350    2,098    1,913    2,178    2,495    2,383    3,0S4    2,342
Henan           5,330    4,805    4,365    6,300    5,230    5,373    4,370    6,770    6,003    8,096    9,605    8,491
ShAsnui         2,750    2,025    2,825    2,880    3,130    2,916    2,729    3,250    2,828    3,167    3,338    3,572
ShandnA: 8,255    7,940    8,480    8,220    9,935    9,37    10,165   11,702   10,672   10,333   11,109   13,532
BubtotaI       27,060   25,005   26,720   27,740   28,565   28,171   27,760   32,899   31,053   33,978   37t447   39,191
Mei Mouggol    1,390    1,425    1,060    1,430    1,485    1,S97    1,927    2,733    3,055    2.935    3,931    4,137
Gansu             890      675       610      690      675       744      790       895      954    1,038    1,162    1,389
0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
&a        as8      65        S5       70       115      142      173       291      322       333      376      415
inilang   1.265    1,230    1,230    131        1,9       1,94    1606    1,751    1,750    1,8         2,012    2,09
Sub total       3,630    3,395    2,955    3,500    3,665    3,877    4,496    5,670    6,081    6,193    7,481    8,033
Shanghai           40       30        40       25        35       40       59        51       52        58       67       S8
Jiansu        1,230    1,735    1,945    1,905       ,8      2,216    2,417    2,411    2,404    2,765    2,302    2,087
3heiLang         155       160      18S       135      145       132      111      118       112      138        99      1l5
Anhui             385      39S       275      350       490      657      796    1,002       623    1,366    1,469    1,S87
Jia"xLt            10       10        10       10        10       10       10        11       it        17       23       73
Hunl              860    1,025    1,085    1,105    1,285    1,153    1,156    1,179         933    1,093    1,222    1,203
Hunan             215      210       190      200       240      202      209       221      192       236      245      274
Subtotal        2,895    3,565    3,730    3,730    4,285    4,410    4,758    4,993    4,327    5,673    S,427    5,397
southwest
Sichua          5,410    5,940    6,125    5,890    6,250    5,780    5,785    5,211    5,825    6,320    7,150    7,341
GuZLxhO         2,115    1,825    1,935    2,09      2,175    1,577    1,1950    1,970    1,540    1,921    1,773    2,286
Yunnan          2,630    2,695    2,780    2,690 g    2,740    2,487    2,578    2,498    2,501    2,933    2,778    2,935
Xlzaf               5        5         S       10         5        5        S         7        7         9        9        9
8ubtotal       10,160   10,465   10,84S   10,685   11,170    9,849   10,318    9,686    9,873   11,183   11,710   12,S71
South
Guantdong          65       65        70       65        70       70       74        79       65       104      135      151
GuatiL         l,ll     1,200    1,220    1,070    1,040        917      895       981      681    1,193    1,200    1,073
Fuji"n              0        0         0        0        0         2        4        22       22       34        33       30
ifainaa                                                                                       14       19        25       28
subtotal        1.175    1,265    1,290    1,135    1.110        989      973    1,082       782    1.350    1,393    1,282
National Total  61,725   59,205   60,29S   68,205   73,410   63,826   70,862   79,822   77,351   78,920   96,819   98t773
sources China Rural StatLetics Yearbooks (various Lssues).
I-"



ChIna
Graln Distribution and Marketing Project
Rice ProductLon by Provinc-
Region
province         1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     1990      1991
(thousand tons)
wtlonl795                     60       710     g91      1 240    1,629    2,208    2,257    2 380    2 271    3, 144    3,162
Lianig          1,075    2,490    2,535    2,905    3,310    2,630    3,207    3,372    3,481    2,770    3,692    3,909
Jun             2,355    1,12S    1,445    1,S1S    1,910    1,841    1,75    2,230    2,157    1,824    2,894    3,063
Sutotal         4,22S    4,175    4,690    S,33S    6,460    6,100    7,166    7,859    8,018    6,865    9,730   10,134
3eijing           295      215       225      270       260      249      244       240      239       234      216      22S
310      125       110      100      135       174      215       239      262      277       282      330
830      710       760      825      750       780      756       771      81l      895       9164     891
Shanxi             70       55        60       65        65       58       51        40       41        54       54        7
iHenan          1,780    2,045    1,750    2,180    2,390    2,263    2,063    1,977    1,6         2,328    2,700    2 429
shaanci           755      530       795      845      935       883      932       947     -881       990    1.004    1.027
Shandong          740      650       505      S95       575      625      630       574      151       607      906    1, 1S
Subtotal        4,780    4,330    4,205    4,880    5,110    5,032    4,891    4,788    4,007    5,38S    6,078    6,074
Northweist                                                                                                                             I
Nel unegol         40       40        45       40        60       78       83        77      120       196      314      340
Gasum              20       1S        15       1S        1S       18       19        22       18        23       24       24        U'
inghai             0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0
I    L            330      370       395      400       420      419      421       439      457       483      543      561
Xtiniana          255      260       325      380       370      306      316       362      389       414      431      494
subtotal          645      685       780      83S      866       821      839       900      984    1,116    1,312    1,419
shanghaL        1,16     1,250    1,515    1,475    1,780    1,539    1,746    1,749    1,726    1,77         1,773    1,4
Jiangs         11,755   13,065   14,375   16,050   17495   16,385   17,027   16,51    16,390   17739   17,085    1  6,2
Zhelang       11,760   11,810   14,240   13,045   15,105   13,578   13,684   13,368   12,97   12,996   13,             14 3
AnhUa           7,730    9,450   10,435    9,60    11,360   11,629   12,223   11,892   11,97   12,826   13,401   1,8
JL    I        11,88    12,165   13,465   14,080       930   14,758   14,069   15,090   14 ,560   14,947   15,877   15,523
H=IX      210,380   12,000   13,535   13,705   15670   15,717   16,236   15950   15,882   16,975   17,896   15,39
Hunan          19,425   19,985   21,800   24,580   2,165   23,388   24,643   2142   23,440   24,42   24,682   2733
subtotal       74,095   79,725   89,365   92,535  100,50    96,994   99,628   98709   96,552  101,714  103,928   98847
Southwest
sLchuan        15,370   16,390   17,705   19,390   20,340   19 261   20,032   19,797   19,665   20,797   21,974   21,056
GuLshou         3,5      2,70      3,0      3,765    4,070    3,243    3,412    3,419      3,2      345       360      430
YUna            3,875    4,360    4,640    4,570    5,005    4,830    4,400    4,580    4,579    4,684    5,165    5,125
XLzana        s5        5         0        0         5        3        3         2        3         3        3        3
su tatal      22,S00   23,62S   2S,845   27,725   29,420   27,337   27,847   27,798   27,467   28,939   30,745   30,514
South
GUandog        16,230   14,790   11,445   17,915   17,930   15,614   15,437   16,514   15,810   17,612   16,77    16,191
Guangzi   ~10,070    9,815   11,745   12,080   10,655    9,860    9,866   10,690    9,393   11,055   12,00    11,868
luflan          6,715    6,810    7,160    7,560    7,310    6,811    6,550    7,158    6,877    7,444    7,3712        ,257
Subtotal      33,015   31,415   36,3S0   37,555   35,89S   32,285   31,853   34,362   32,080   36,111   31,4    361,25
natLonal Total 139,260  143,955  161,235  168,865  178,255  168,569  172,224  174,416  169,108  180,130  189,332  183,813
sources China Rural Statistics Yearbooks (various Lesueu).
w 



China
Grain Distribution and Marketing Project
-______________________                            Soybea  Production by Province
Region
province         1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985     1986      1987     1988      1989     199      1991
(thousand tons)
Heilonjiang 2.205    2.01S    2.605    2.385    24905    3,137    3.780    3.835    3,9S0    2,860    3.258    3,098
iaoU3                      625       580      695       635      546      635       492      451       231      427       363
J ln605                    790       715      880       810      905      837       968      986       675      933      717
Subtotal        3,345    3,430    3.900    3,960    4.350    4,588    5,252   529S    5 387    3,766    4,618    4,178
.ejig            15       10       15        i5       15        22       23       31        28       31        28       22
Tianjin            30       2S        2S       25        35       47       59        67       62        65       66       84
Hebel             295      305       300      250       275      385      412       459      468       443      535      566
Shanxi            130      125       175      170       180      177       176      211      266       276      302      S9
8nena             920    1 540       745    1.280       970    1.032      749    1,104       699       801      867      661
Shanui            180      105       135      170       165      183      210       250      292       260      293      262
Shandona          840      830       735       450      625      79S      947    1,030       92S       739      143      983
Subtota         2.410    2.940    2.130    2.555    2.265    2.641    2,576    3,152    2,740    2,615    2, 34    2.737
Wei Konqgol       125      195       24S      24S       230      288      410       367      476       376      476      451
ganou         so5      35        35       50        50o      6         68       77       62        72       77        62
Qinghai             0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0                 0
ia          s1         10       20        25       25       26        24       34        36       24       24        27
Xnin nia           20       15        2S       30        20       1S       18        24       33        44       34       29
Sub   a    210       255      325       350      325      393       520      502       607      516      611       569
KLYR
Shanghai            5        S         5       10        10       11       11        14       15        16       12       11
Jiangsu           290      475       485      520       430      557      719       662      641       604      451      269
Zhejiang          120      115       130      110      120       110      117       130      123      143       114      115
AnhuL             495      905       62S      91s       68S      704      819       882      630       772      554      277
Jiangxi           115      110       155      130       135      145      125       143      147       178      169      165
Hubei             lS      175       160      160       220      238      290       276      248       294      264      206
Hunan             135      165       205      210       225      218      244       249      229       294      254      243
Subtotal        1,275    1,9S0    1,765    2,055    1,825    1,983    2,325    2,356    2,033    2,301    1,818    1,286
Southwest
Sichuan           205      225       260      275      320       336      346       324      325      331       346      340
Guizhou            80      100       100      100       135      110      140       121      130       139      128      135
Yunnan             70       75        85       90       100       96       9S        84       93       102      100       97
Xizan               0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        54       60        1
Subtotal          355      400       445      465      S55       542      581       529      548       626      634      573
South
Guangdong         115      120       145      110       120      118      127       129      129       139      139      126
Guangxi           100      140       215      185       160      142      140       122      106       1S7      128      135
Fuilan             70       90       105       80        95       93       93        99       95       107      112      102
Salnan                                                                                                            6        7
Subtotal          28S      350      465       375      375       353      360       350      330      403       38S      370
National Total   7,880    9,325    9,030    9,760    9,695   10,500   11,614   12,184   11,645   10,227   11,000    9,713
SOurce: China Rural Statistic. Yearbooks (various issue).
g. X



China
Grain DLstrLbution and MarketLng Project
Wheat ProductLon by Province
Region
prvince          1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1985     1986      1987     1988      1989      1990     1991
(thousand -ons)
Northeast
HeLlong iang   3,945    3,140    2,780    4,510    3,825    3,768    3,559    2,998    2,470    3,59S    4,748    3,811
Liaoning           S5        S5        S0       45        25        28       40        57        83      149       450      496
JlIln             16S       15S       15S      145       155       103       67        63        49       84       128       145
Subtotal        4,165    3,350    2,985    4,700    4,005    3,899    3,666    3,118    2,602    3,828    5,326    4,452
North
NBeijig           405       S60       475      660       730       731      710       755      840       916    1,015    1,085
Tianiin           275       210       190      330       330       435      461       475      496       572       620       620
Hebel           3,840    4,175    4,475    6,945    7,160    7,443    8,268    7,235    7,922    8,555    9,277    9,004
Shanxi          1,185    1,615    2,030    2,455    2,900    2,951    3,04          230      238       2,6        ,9       ,0
Henan           8,905   10,835   12,200   14,555   16,530   15,282   15,679   16,260   15,210   16,951   16,399   15,543
Shaanxi         2,300    3,540    4,210    4,445    4,495    4,233    4,441    4,177    4,066    4,701    4,63            4,457
Shandona        7,660    8.700    8,240   12,000   12,785   14,961   15,624   14,741   13,908   14,875   16,12    18,894
Subtotal       24,570   29,635   31,820   41,390   44,930   46,036   48,237   45,983   44,790   49,232   51,2    52,706
Northwest
NeL Monggol.      825    1,000    1,265    1,210    1,440    1,485    1,308    1,257    1,634    1,892    2,617    2,802
Gansu      ~~2,400    2,320    3,105    3,335    3,415    3,148    3,307    3,020    2,865    3,313    3,653    3,694
Lnghai           r65       500       6 30     620       675       630      609       676      687       706       736      769
OLncgxla          495       540       615      730       750      586       703       463      635       711       780      816
XiniLana        2,130    2,225    2,330    2,655    3,035    3,145    3,382    3,537    3,609    3,662    3,916    3,856
Subtotal        6,415    6,585    7,945    8,550    9,315    8,994    9,309    8,953    9,430   10,284   11,702   11,937
Shanghai          205       1?5       180      110       140      218       302       277      271       234       291      305
iLanqsu         5,080    5,260    7,095    7,610    9,040    8,294    9,383    8,995    8,946    8,407    9,237    8,475
hej Lang          795       745      970        6      1g015      904       787       641      764       730      872       721
AnhJ i          3,4x0     4,355    S,540    5,7265    6,465    6,059    6,566    7,17796   6,775    5,918    5,980    3,154
JianqxL            90        95       115       75       100      104        92        76       79        84        81       75
Hub !           2,665    2,485    3,S80    3,355    3,780    3,454    3,815    4,211    4,016    3,756    3,911    3,887
Hunan             245       265       325      30S       335      292       297       283      293       244       289      351
Subtotal       12,485   13,380   17,805   18,045   20,875   19,325   21,242   21,662   21,144   19,373   20,661   16,968
Southweat
Sichuan         4,715    5,140    6,360    7,240    7,030    6,256    6,501    6,584    5,687    6,197    6,853    7,140
Guizhou            30    6,320        300      320       360      295       322       315      510       507       718      863
Yunnan            785       735       675      865       825      619       435       746      824       807    1,026    1,15
Xizang            180       130       110      105       140      118        95       107      III       134       164      183
Subtotal        6,030    6,325    7,445    8,530    8,355    7,288    7,,353    7,752    7,132    7,645    8,761    9,339
South
Gtuangong         240       140       165       65       125       79        68        77       88       171       219      229
Guanqxl            25        20        20       15        15        10       12        12       19        28        22       17
a1ilan          225       205       235       95       195       174      153       211       227      246       277       305
Subtotl1          490       365      420       175       335      263       233       300      334       445      518       551
National Total  54,155   59,640   68,420   81,390   87,815   85,805   90,040   87,768   85,432   90,807   98,230   95,953
Sources China Rural Statistics Yearbooks (varLous Lssu"e).
-I-



CHINA
Grain Distribution and MNrketfng Project
GRAIN EXPORTS FROM CHINA
1985     1986     1987     1988      1989     1990     1991                        1985      1986     1987     1988     1989      190      1991
bestination                           (thou ton)                                                                      Value (US$ ml)
PAIZE   5957.2   S705.6   3916.2  3911.7   3501.5   3404.3  7781.9                 NAIZE    727.7    609.1   323.1    392.6   438.8   403.5    864.5
long Kong  1046.0   1019.3    218.9    238.0    116.2      60.9    167.3           Hong Kong                       19.7     22.7      14.1      7.8     18.9
hpan       2461.2   2616.7   1599.9   1504.3   1289.2    918.3   1785.3            Japan                          121.3    154.7    156.4    108.5    201.5
*orea,DPR   127.6    124.0     89.3    166.0    296.1    264.6    216.8            Korea,DPR                        5.8     21.5      41.8     30.6     24.6
(0rea,Rep                                                 931.5   3494.4           Korea,Rep                      151.2                       109.2    378.8
UISSR      1604.8   1598.3   1719.9   1446.9   1183.2    945.6    855.1            USSR                                    140.7    148.7    113.2      98.6
RICE   1019.0    956.5   1021.6    697.9    314.9    325.2    687.8                RICE    226.7    188.5    187.1    181.0       94.4     83.9    151.5
Rong Kong    15.0    122.1    175.4    106.0      62.0     43.7      84.5          Hong Kong                       35.6     33.1      24.0     16.1     21.4
Indonesia                                                   46.6     20.0          Indonesia                                                    8.2      4.2
Nauritius    37.1     38.7      51.3     53.7     47.2      42.6     79.6          Mauritius                        6.5      13.1     11.7      8.9     16.1
Sri Lanka   131.5     91.9      10.2     91.9     60.7                             Sri Lanka                        2.0      23.3     15.7
Cuba                           101.2     50.0      9.9      25.6    138.0          Cuba                            16.9      9.0       2.7      6.9     33.0
SOYBEANS   1151.3   1301.0   1710.1   1477.3   1247.6    940.3   1109.0            SOYBEANS    267.9    300.2   367.5    381.0    365.0    228.3    262.2
Japan       345.5    323.1    296.8    299.5    297.7    278.2    280.5            Japan                           65.3      88.3     90.0     72.0     69.4
Indonesia   201.3    210.6    273.8    308.3    162.4    278.6    455.2             Indonesia                      55.8      78.4     46.8     66.9    106.0
MalaysIa     79.6    125.5    126.4    120.8    125.3       54.1    240.4          Malaysia                        25.2      29.0     33.5     12.8     54.4
USSR        388.4    447.5    816.3    509.8    500.0    221.2                     USSR                           173.7    126.1    144.6      46.7
OIL MEALS                     3261.8   4508.6   3335.7   3202.0   3783.1           OIL MEALS                      451.0    738.4    620.7    534.0    555.6
Hong Kong                      505.2    703.1    365.8    180.3    164.6           Hong Kong                       70.3    113.3      67.2     27.2     26.1
Japan                          273.5    541.4    395.9    612.2    863.5           Japan                           34.7      98.3     80.9    115.9    151.3
Korea.Rep                                                  525.0    600.6          Korea.Rep                                                   99.4      78.4
Tha11and                       298.8    385.1    237.5    490.2    610.7           Thaliland                       43.5      64.8     47.7     80.7     93.2
Philippines                    180.1    308.3    187.8    205.6    193.2           Philippines                     28.7      57.1     40.5     38.8     34.4
Singapore                      331.7    509.7   444.6    266.7    129.5            Singapore                       50.2     93.4      97.1     43.S     20.0
U.K.                           248.4    298.5    221.7    133.2      64.1          U.K.                            24.9      37.8     26.1     14.1      5.8
6ermany.FR                     347.0    602.0    159.2      48.3    133.1          6ermany.FR                      37.6     86.8      21.4      4.8     12.3
Sources: 1985-1986 - Almanac of China's Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, 1987
1987-1991 - China's Customs Statistics Yearbook, various years



CHINA
Grain Oistributlon and Marketing Project
GRAIN IAPORTS INrO CHINA
1985     1986     1987      1988     1989     1990      1991                       1985      1986     1987     1968      1989     1990     1991
Driqin                              (thousand tons)                                                                     (Value UiS$ mil)
MAIZE     90.9    587.9   1541.8    109.4       68.0    368.7    502.0              MAIZE     12.9     65.2    150.5      12.1      9.2     47.6       0.1
USA                           1228.0   107.1       54.4    356.2     64.0           USA                            119.0     11.2              4S.7
WHET   5410.0   6110.0  13200.0  14546.5  14880.4  12527.3  12367.7                 WHiEAT    886.0    828.7   1362.4   1731.0   2581.2   2156.5   1459.5
Canada                        5698.9   7568.0  1761.1   4136.1   4504.0             Canada                         610.4   869.0   294.5    747.8    573.0
Australia                     4431.6    397.2   1676.6   1386.2   1364.6            Australia                      432.0     45.5   306.0    244.6    162.6
USA                           1563.5   5768.2   8293.2   3919.3   4586.6            USA                            150.7    708.3   1421.9    637.1    494.0
Argentina                      810.2    303.5   1048.9    858.1    391.0            Argentina                       89.7     39.2    193.3    153.8      54.8
France                         333.6     25.0   1397.5   1140.5   1242.4            France                          34.6      4.5    240.2    182.9    140.2
BARLEY     31.5    199.2    211.0      81.4    245.6    652.4    751.9              BARLEY      4.2     19.4      21.2      8.6     44.2    109.1    110.2
Canada                          94.5     51.7      70.0     66.9    255.8           Canada                           9.8      5.5     12.4      9.1      38.0 
Australia                       95.5     29.7    175.6    585.3   439.0             Australia                        9.2      3.2     31.8    99.9       64.5          %
RICE (milled)              540.7    310.3   1201.6      56.1    140.4               RICE (milled)               79.8    74.9    303.6      11.1      39.4
Thailand                       316.0    252.9   1002.6       5.9     49.9           Thailand                        48.2     66.5   260.0       2.5      19.0
Korea, DPR                                                  43.3     11.4
SOYBEANS     0.5    290.0    273.1    151.8       0.8       0.9      0.8           SOYBEANS      0.2     64.0     61.2      37.1      0.3      0.3       0.3
USA                            272.1    119.0                                       USA                             61.0     26.3
FISH MEAL                      220.7    454.0    471.6    223.5    632.7           FISH MEAL                       85.3    239.1    240.4    103.1    312.8
Sources: 1985-1986 - Almanac of China's Foreign Economic Relations and Trade, 1987
1987-1991 - China's Customs Statistics Yearbook, various years



CHINA
RAIN DISTRItUTION AND MARKETING PROJECT
Provinciat Grain Production and Utilization, 198183 and 1988-91
.... ..... *.......................................................I................
Total Grain Production             Production Net of Direct Consumption and Feed Use
(fillion tons)                   (million tons)                   (kg per capita)
.........................    ........................................ ......................... ............................ ............
1981/83  1988/91   Change    1981/83  1988/91   Change    1981/33  1988191   Change
................................................. ..........................................................................................................
National           355.2    420.8        65.6         12.8      -8.6    -21.5          12.4      -7.7       20.1
Beijing               1.9       2.5       0.7         -1.2      -1.6      -0.4       -124.7   -127.7        -3.0
Tianjin               1.1       1.8       0.7         -1.0      -1.4      -0.4       *126.8   -142.0    -15.1
Iebef               17.4       21.6       4.2          2.5       1.5      -1.0         46.2      24.8    -21.4
Shanxi               7.9        8.S       0.7          0.7       0.4      -0.3         28.6      14.3    -14.2
Nei Meng             S.3        8.4       3.1         -1.5      -0.2        1.2       -75.9    -11.0        65.0
Liaoning            12.7       13.2       0.5          0.3      -2.1      -2.4          7.3    -48.1    -55.4
Ji(in               11.3       17.5       6.1          3.7       8.1       4.4        161.9    299.7    137.8
HeiLongilang        13.2       19.4       6.2          3.1       7.3       4.1         93.5    191.1       97.6
Shanghai             2.0        2.4       0.4         -2.2      -2.7      -0.5       -179.6   -166.3        13.3
Jiangsu             28.1      31.7        3.7          3.7       3.9       0.2         61.0      58.2       -2.9
Zhejiang            15.7       15.9       0.2          1.0       0.6      -0.4         24.9      13.6    -11.4
Anhui                19.1      22.3       3.2          1.8       1.1       -0.7        36.0       21 1     -14.9 
Fujian               8.4        8.7       0.3         -0.9      -2.6      -1.6        -35.5    -85.4    -49.8
Jiangxi             13.8       15.9       2.1          1.0      -1.3      -2.3         30.6    -33.5    -64.2
Shandong            24.6       33.4       8.8          1.5       3.6       2.0         19.9      43.5      23.6
Henan               24.8       30.3       5.5          3.6       2.2      -1.4         47.3      26.6    -20.7
Hubet               19.0       23.4       4.4          1.6       0.0      -1.5         32.8       0.8    -32.0
Huron               24.0       26.3       2.3          0.9      -1.3      -2.2         16.1    -22.0    -38.1
Guangdong           18.5       18.1      -0.4         -3.2      -6.3      -3.1        -53.8    -98.7    -44.9
Guangxf             12.9       12.5      -0.3          0.1      -2.5      -2.6          2.3    -59.8    -62.1
Hainan                          1.5       1.5                   -0.7      -0.7                 -110.2   -110.2
Sichuan             37.4       41.2       3.8         -0.2      -5.1      -4.9         -2.1    -49.2    -47.0
Guizhou              6.4        7.4       1.0         -2.2      -3.8      -1.6        -76.2   -119.0    -42.7
Yunnan               9.4       10.2       0.8         -1.0      -2.5      -1.5        -30.7    -69.5    -38.8
Xizang               0.4        0.5       0.1         -0.5      -1.0      -0.4       -270.7   -430.5   -159.9
Shaanxi              8.8       10.3       1.5          0.3       0.0      -0.4         11.0      -1.3    -12.3
Gansu                4.8        6.5       1.7         -1.1      -1.3      -0.2        -53.9    -56.2        -2.2
Qinghai              0.9        1.1       0.2         -0.7      -1.4      -0.7       -182.0   -297.9   -115.9
Ningxia               1.3       1.8       0.5          0.2       0.3       0.1         46.4      59.2       12.8
Xinjiang             4.2        6.4       2.2          0.2       1.1       0.9         18.0      71.1      53.1
...................................................................................................
Source: G. Abdukadir, "Provincial Grain Balance Sheets 1981-83 and 1988-91" (August, 1992).
I.A 0
0)4
0 



- 59 -                                                 Ame  1
Table 1.9
CNtNA
Grain Distrfbutfon end Narketing Project
Northeast Corn Productfon and Utitilation, 1983-92 and 2000
(eiltion tona)
.......................................................................................
1983  1984  198S  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  199i  1992       2000
...... ..........._......................................
Production         22.3  26.1  18.1  24.S  29.2  28.3  23.4  37.8  36.2  34.8        43.3
Consmution         15.1  15.7  16.3  16.9  17.S  18.1  18.8  19.4  20.0  20.6        25.6
Direct                                                        3.5                   3.2
Rural                                                       2.9                  2.6
Urban                                                       0.6                   0.6
Indirect                                                     15.9                 22.4
Feed                                                       12.8                 18.9
Seed                                                        0.9                  O.S
Industrial                                                  1.2                  2.0
Waste                                                       1.0                   1.0
Surplus             7.2  10.4   1.8   7.6  11.7  10.2   4.6  18.4  16.2  14.2        17.7
Northeast Corn Productton & Consumption
1983-92 and 2000
50
45-
40 
35 
0*   0
25-
1       ~20-
to 
15
10
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1988   1990   1991   1992   2000
YEAR
a   PrwOuUeon       +   Consumption       O   Surplus



- 61 -                            Am=  a
Page 1
MINISxR OY  COMimRCE OF TM PeOPLs'  R$PUBLS! OF C0al
PROGR    R " RAguN M qEN  RFoM N   IAs
1.    The following paragraphs outline a prelimlary reform program for the grain
marketing and distribution system for the last three years of the Eighth Five
Year Plan in light of the present situation in the grain sector. The program's
guiding objective is to promote the creation Qf a socialist market economy along
lines set forth in the Government's "Reform and Long-Term Economic Development
Programme for the 19909", and in related legal instruments.
PART 0M. RMIW OF PAST REFORM.
Blackgafd
2.   China initiated In 1978 its well known economic reforms, which aimed to
double per capita incomes by 1990 -- an objective that was achieved in 1988 --
and advance, step-by-step, the transformation of food production and commodity
distribution from the precepts of central planning to a market-driven system.
In response to new opportunities and the unleashing of farmers' initiative, the
real value of gross agricultural output more than doubled between 1978-1992 while
rapid growth in China's agricultural imports and exports contributed
substantially to the opening of China's economy to the outside world that was
spawne$ by the reforms.
3.   During the 1980s, the distribution of most agricultural products was
deregulated and free markets for most food commodities were allowed to supplement
state-owned distribution channels. The deregulation of China's agricultural
economy was accompanied by a considerable diversification in agricultural
production and food consumption patterns. Owing to higher per capita incomes and
increasingly urbane consumer preferences, the importance of low quality grains
and vegetables in the Chinese diet diminished and was supplemented with increased
high-quality grains, processed food, meat intake, and a diverse array of fruits
and higher-quality vegetables that rarely became available through the state
commercial system.
4.   Starting from 1978, when the household contract responsibility system began
to spread in rural areas, reforms in grain management were being formulated and
a series of substantive measures were taken. The reforms were redirected from
mandatory planning toward market supervision and regulation. However, because
of the strategic importance of grain production and product distribution the
Government replaced, in 1985, the quota purchase system with contract orders for
grain crops limited to wheat, rice, corn, and soybeans in main production areas.
Since 1987, the state purchase plan has been kept in the order of 50 million
tons, roughly 15 percent of total grain production. Farmers are allowed to
dispose their surplus grain and non-quota products as they choose. Subsequently,
the state has raised grain planned purchase prices several times, and in some
years they have even exceeded the market prices. The provision of grains for
industrial consumption at fixed prices has been eliminatedl these grains are now
fully procured through market mechanism. In addition, all provinces, autonomous
regions and state-administered municipalities have taken initiatives to reduce
retail sales of grain at fixed prices. At present in most parts of the country,
fixed price grain is provided only for urban population subsistence, disaster
relief and farmers in the Impoverished rural areas. Urban residents have a more
diversified food consumption pattern and consume less grain but more non-staple
foods (e.g. meat), thus more than half of the provinces have cut provisions for
urban residents at fixed price.



- 62 -                            AN,SX 2
Page 2
5.    china's reform in the grain sector has thus been based on the principle of
gradualism, which has allowed the country to actively and steadily introduce
economic and structural reforms in other strategic sectors without losing control
or introducing instability during the process of transition.   In the grain
distribution sector, in the early 19808 there was still legitimate concern that
production was insufficient to provide adequate food security in many parts of
China.   The adoption of two-track pricing in 1985, rather than full price
deregulation in the grain sector, allowed the state to buy time for readjusting
production programs and strengthening agricultural infrastructure to further
stimulate grain production. Subsequently, targeted production programs, based
on household contract responsibility system, irrigation rehabilitation
investments, and new agricultural technology increased the production of basic
grains from about 407 million tons in 1984 to over 440 million tons in 1992. This
approach has allowed the country to maintain basic food supplies to its 1.1
billion population, and as such, was clearly the correct approach.
6.    The reestablishment of grain markets has gradually broken down the state
monopoly in the grain sector.  With the development of markets, a profound
diversification of ownership, operation, and market channels is occurring,
particularly the rapid development of self-employed traders and private
enterprises engaged in grain trading and transport and the increase in numbers
of joint ventures and foreign enterprises in trade. The diversification of
markets has also played a positive role in promoting agricultural production,
improving the living conditions and developing economy as a whole. At the same
time, the reforms in grain marketing and distribution have brought about changes
in the Grain Bureau enterprises, which are still the mainstay in grain marketing
and distribution, who have initiated numerous reforms in their management to
improve efficiency and service.
ecent S_tes to Deg=n the Reforms
7.    1991 was a very important year. Reform was speeded up with the resumption
of full-scale reform planning and the implementation of important policy changes
to spear-head the deepening of reforms in grain distribution.
8.    In this process, price deregulation is regarded as a key component. Within
less than a year between May 1991 and April 1992, the fixed price of grain for
retail sale was raised in two steps by 140 percent, which baoically unified the
purchasing and sale prices for grain, a significant step forward toward complete
grain price deregulation. The retail price reform was well prepared and did not
meet with much resistance from consumers or the enterprises and it did not affect
normal market operation and social stability. The reform has helped to rectify
grain prices, to alleviate the state's financial burden on subsidies and it has
given more momentum to economic reform as a whole.
9. The process of price deregulation in the grain sector has proceeded from
experiments in a few enterprises to a full-scale reform. Prior to the end of
1991, experiments were carried out in five counties and municipalities. In 1992,
the reform gained speed.   According to incomplete statistics at the end of
February, 1993, price deregulation has been introduced in over 80 percent of the
country's counties (cities), covering a population of over 1 billion. Judging
from the situation of the regions on trial, while the reform has not provided
solutions to all existing problems and it has yet to be exposed to market
fluctuations, economic gains for farmers, consumers, enterprises and financial
bureaux are none-the-less very evident.   The spread of reform heralds the
complete commercialization of grain management.
l0.  Market  System  Development:  to  break  down  regionalism  and  market
segmentation and reduce trading costs, in October 1990, the national Grain
Wholesale Market (a commodity exchange) was established in Zhengzhou, Henan and
soon after a number of regional exchanges emerged in Changchun, Wuhan, Harbin,



- 63 -                            ANX 2
Page 3
Changsha, Jiujiang and Wuhu. Now, a network of markets, centered in the national
wholesale market, and supported by regional and primary markets, has taken shape
and has made great progress in regulating grain transactions, stabilizing the
market, and providing information.
11.   In light of the markedly increised role of the market in China's grain
sector, the state has established grain reserves to minimize market risks and
enhance its ability to influence the conduct of trading activities through
indirect means.  The system being created by the reforms has proved to be
effective in assuring prompt and nearby supply of grain for all victims and
ensuring the life of victims and safeguarding social stability in disaster areas
in the face of a major flood disaster which occurred in a number of provinces of
Southern China in 1991.  Grain reserves are also being established by the
provinces. In addition, farmers are now encouraged to retain proper reserves of
their own.
12.  Enterprise Reforms operational reforms are being introduced in state-owned
grain enterprises to help them become independent entities, responsible
henceforth for their own profits and loases. Until 1992, Grain Bureau enterprises
were considered a special sector assuring grain supply for the nation's 1 1
billion population, and were largely exempted from the reform provisions of the
1988 Enterprise Law. The State Council's "Regulations on Transforming Management
Mechanisms of State Owned Industrial Enterprises" was promulgated on July 23,
1992. The policy framework for state grain enterprise reform was established
with the extension of these regulations to enterprises within the Ministry of
Commerce system. The experience in Tianjin for separate management of profitable
and non-profitable enterprises is being adapted across the country and various
other forms of management such as employee contributions to a risk fund that is
mortgaged to enterprise profitability ("risk-based mortgage contracting"), share-
holding, leasing, croos-sectoral operation, and incorporation are being tried and
improved. In places where conditions permit, more comprehensive reforms towards
management commrcialization are being carried out in State grain enterprises.
Though it is too soon to evaluate the overall effects of this reform, there are
several encouraging signs that the increased freedom in decision-making, pricing
and operations, financial planning, technical renovation, work force utilization
and personnel policies, and the distribution of profits and income is leading to
improved  productivity  and  financial  results,   and  accelerated  grain
commercialization and market responsiveness.
13.  The initiatives in the grain marketing reform so far introduced can thus
be summarized as follows:
- introducing open and competitive marketing systems with diversified
ownership, management, and marketing channels,
- establishing a network of national, regional and primary markets for
grain trading,
- setting up grain reserves at the national, provincial and local
levels, and
- the transition of planned management and macro-control from mainly
relying on the mandatory plans to the use of a combination of
economic, and legal means.
As a result, the economic principles governing price, supply and demand and
market competition have already begun to provide important feedback to grain
production, marketing and enterprise management.



- 64 -                            MM  2
Page 4
PAR   O. a_M*          MT  33V     or OR&=w uaalR.
14.   By the turn of the decade, the success of China's graln production
endeavors had made it possible to conslder further deregulation in the grain
sector, which the government has determined should constitute a main priority for
China's agricultural sector reforms through the remainder of the 1990s. These
achievements have set the stage for further deregulation in grain markets and a
major change in the organization, management and operation of the entire grain
distribution system, reforms which the Government has been actlvely promoting
since 1991, and intends to bring fully into force durlng the comlng 3-4 years as
per the programs spelled out below.
15.  Having recognized the positive effects of past reforms, we also noted that
several deep-rooted problems ln grain management have not been eliminated. The
new system is still at the fledgling state and further reform is needed. To put
it into perspective, the national economy as a whole is now developing in the
right direction and provldes a good situation for the grain sector reform, which
has witnessed a steady increase in production, stable market and adequate
reserves; the state owned grain enterprLses, with efforts made in recent years,
have strengthened their competitiveness. All of these developments have provided
a favorable opportunity and a sound environment for further reform.
Objectives of Reform
16.  The general objectlve of establishing a socialist market oconomy system is
supported by the following specifLc reform objectlves: to boldly adopt/integrate
superior, modern production models and commodity economlcs from other counteiesg
to devote major efforts to developing the nation's grain marketing system; and,
to further expand the function of markets.   Accelerating reform in grain
distribution is expected to commercialize grain transfers and market operations
and promote efficiency and modernization in grain distribution consistent with
economic principles and changing supply and demand conditions. The major near-
term reforms includes 1) reformLng the state mandatory grain procurement to a
system where farmers select thelr mode of sale, e.g. contracts with individual
enterprises or markets; 2) reforming administrative grain pricing to market-
determined pricing based on supply and demand with intervention limited to grain
prLce stabilization; 3) acceleratlng infrastructure development, increasing the
grain reserve and focusing government LnterventLon on str.ngthening the
regulatory role of the state; 4) stlmulating production and marketLng by
improving the grain market system through the establishment of spot, wholesale
and futures markets, supported by regional and primary grain market; and 5)
exposing state grain enterprises to market forces and Improving market operations
through an improved legal framework and market regulatory mechanism.
The following elaborates on the above mentioned pointas
eliminate the grain procurement quota to permit farmers unrestricted
access to lncome earnlng opportunltles;
eliminate untargeted rationed sales in urban areas to improve consumer
choice, improve the quallty of marketed grains, and lay the groundwork for
the full commrcialization of grain transfers and sales;
increase efficiency in marketing and distribution, bys
(a)  the general deregulation of grain prices -- in primary and regional
markets, at the retail level, and in inter-provLncLal trade,
(b)   requLrLig state-owned enterprLses to operate according to market
economy principles, responsible for their own profits and losses,



- 65 -                             MX 2
Page 5
(a)   encouraging competition through an expanded role for non-state
companies in grain movement and marketing,
(d)   the gradual reform of China's international trade in grains and
grain products,
(e)   establishing nationwide price information system., and commodity
(grain and edible oil) exchanges,
(f) fostering investments to modernize the grain handling, storage and
marketing infrastructure, and
(g)   transforming the role of government grain departments from planned
allocation responsibilities to performing a market regulatory role;
improve food securlty bys
(a)   stabllizing market price through selectlve lnterventlons;
(b)   settlng up a safety net system to ensure poor and vulnerable groups
recelve adequate food and other essential items, thereby reducing
the attendant fiscal burden of policy and operating subsidles;
(a)   settlng up graln prlce risk fund or regulation fund to regulate and
reduce priee risks; and
(d)   establlshing LntermedLary organizatLons, such as trade or enterprlse
associatlons to represent enterprLses' interests Ln interactions
with Government and to implement state policLes.
PriLe pereaulatLon
17.  Progress has been made on price deregulation, but it stLll remains the
locus of the future reform. The main targets of price reform are to gradually
eliminate state-fixed prLces and to establish a price formation system primarily
determined by market forces so as to make productlon more market oriented. The
price reform policy framework should be uniform but in view of the fact that
grain markets are still at a preliminary state of development and that levels of
economic development dlffer across regions, provincial-level initiatives will be
needed to adapt the reforms to regional particulars, and gradualism. Specific
reform to be introduced, startlng iA 1993, Lnclude the elimination of flnancial
and material support for graln production linked wlth procurement quotas (i.e.
the three-linkage pollcy), food ration coupons wlll be withdrawn from clrculatLon
ln areas where grain prices are deregulated, whlle controls on grain varieties
and varietal prIce differentLals wlll be lifted in areas where grain prices are
yet to be deregulated. Henceforth, these prices will be determined by the supply
and demand market conditions and product quality. The deregulation process iL
-expected to be completed wLthin two to three years throughout the country except
ln a few impoverished areas and in the mlnority areas.
18.   The deregulatLon of prlces is a rather complex issue. Consideration is
needed to coordinate relations between grain and finance bureaus, between state
and local interests, and between enterprises, producers, consumers and the
flnancial sector.   Provinces and cities lncluded within the State Planning
Commission's Plan may subsidize the urban residents if deemed necessary so as to
protect their livlng standard against excessive deterloratlon as a result of
prlce adjustment. At the ame time, protection must be provided for urban low-
Lncome earners and penaLoners for basLi subsistence. Adequate food supply to
calamlty-strLiken and graln deflcient areas and resettled population caused by
reservoir construction shall be made.  To protect farmers' and consumers'
interests against sudden and possibly catastrophic price swings, a system of



-66 -                             AENNX 2
Page 6
consumer price ceilings and producer protection (floor) prices has been designed,
which will be introduced across China gradually. Under this system, market
prices will be free to fluctuate within reasonably wide price bands. Protection
(floor) and ceiling prices will be enforced, when necessary, by procurements and
sales from the State Grain Reserve and other indirect means.
19.  The system of planned grain allocations across provinces is to be replaced
by market transactions on a comnercial basis which would be arranged through
contracts or through purchases and sales In wholesale markets. Purchase or supply
contracts or agreements among grain enterprises, farmers and consumers can be
done on an equal and mutually beneficial basis. The involvement of non-state
traders in inter-provincial trade is expected to increase. A safe future for
farm production shall thus be created to avoid abnormal fluctuations in
production.
Market DeveloDment
20.  Full-fledged markets are a pre-requisite for economic principles of price
and supply-demand regulation to be effective. Further efforts will be made to
establish and improve the national and regional wholesale exchanges and wholesale
marketing infrastructure, and primary markets at the township level. Eventually,
an open, nationwide grain marketing system will come into existence.
21.  Based on the experience gained since the Shengshou Grain Wholesale Market
was opened, market improvement, particularly in customer service, will be
introduced. In time, it is expected that the national Market will become an
important center for grain trading information service, transportation and
clearing. In addition, up-to-date market information (prices, volumes traded,
etc.) will be disseminated widely by electronic and print media. Based on the
spot and cash forward exchanges, futures markets will be gradually developed and
price risk reduction studies will be undertaken. A second national grain and oil
commodity exchange will be set up in Shanghai in 1993, mainly to be engaged in
futures transactions.
22.  Improvements to the existing regional grain markets will be made and new
markets will be established to cater to regional economic development and
consumption needs. These markets will bcome regional centers for grain transfer
and distribution. Small primary markets will be further developed for farmers'
convenience, and direct negotiations between producers and traders will be
adopted for market transactions.
23.  Marketing and transport facilities will be given priority in the market
establishment process.   Market regulations will be formulated to prohibit
operational monopolies, in any form, and regionalism. Over time, the present
distorted array of grain transport rail freight rates will be eliminated through
step-by-step freight rate adjustments to ensure that rail and water transport
companies have equal incentives to move grains.
24.  Though large by world standards, China's international trade in grains
accounts for only about 5 percent of the nation's supply of grains.   In
preparation to reinstate the signatory status in the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade, the government is examining ways to change international trade from
the present situation to authorizing qualified grain enterprises certain
discretionary power for grain import and export, in the context of a general
reform of China's foreign trade regulations and arrangements.
Enterprise Reform
25.  Among China's longer-term development policies, enterprise reform resides
at the center of grain marketing and distribution reform, with the transformation
of management to commercial principles as the crux of enterprise reform. The



-67-                              ANMNX 2
Page .
reform will be based on State regulations governing the transformation of all
state-owned enterprises, and on the Ministry of Commerce's detailed guidelines
for implementation that were issued on November 6, 1992. With property rights
being rationalized, the separation of operational management and administrative
intervention, and loci of decision-making power and responsibilities clearly
assigned, enterprises will become truly independent and competitive entities,
responsible for their own profits and losses.
26.   The spreading and improvement of various forms of the contract management
system will be accelerated among Grain Bureau enterprises. Small state
enterprises may renovate and reorient their activities, and adopt different forms
of reform including transfer of ownership to collectives, incorporation and
leasing. Large and medium-sized state enterprises are encouraged to embark on
the contract system collectively, and interlink the enterprises' profits and
workers' payments. They are also encouraged and are being assisted to engage in
joint-ventures and cooperation with overoeas enterprises in order to acquire
advanced management and operational skills.
27.   The share-holding system, recognized as being conducive to the separation
of administrative and operational management, and reform of enterprise management
will be encouraged. Enterprises may adopt this form if they are competent.
Grain Bureau enterprises also will be given freedom to choose any form of capital
management permitted by the state.
28.   In addition, more autonomy will be granted to grain enterprises in the
following aspects:
(1) freedom to choose appropriate management for wholesale,
retail and consignment on purchase, sale, storing and
transport, partnership in purchase and sales, etc.;
(2) freedom to choose their purchase and selling markets,
irrespective of geographical, sectorial and business
orientation;
(3) permission to qualified enterprises for import and
export trading in categories of goods and services
permitted by the state, and freedom to choose their own
foreign trade agents;
(4) autonomy on investment and technical renovation as
specified by the statel
(5) autonomy on decision-making in regard to personnel and
work force policies, pricing, income distribution, etc.;
and
(6) freedom to integrate with other enterprises across
regions, sectors and industries in line with related
state regulations.
29.   The enterprises are expected to strengthen their responsibility for profits
and losses and for meeting their social obligations under law. In this
connection, reforming enterprise will be required to establish an internal
mechanism to guide and regulate the distribution of profits. The income of the
staff must be connected with the enterprises' profitability and long-term
development, and decisions on employment and promotion are to be made on the
basis of accomplishment so as to guarantee improvement in the enterprises,
productivity and profitability. Second, normal enterprise operations and policy-
oriented operations must be delineated and accounted for in a clear-cut manner
so as to release the grain bureau enterprises from policy-induced losses and



- 68-                             MM  2
Page a
allow them to concentrate mainly on uplifting their economic benefits and
competitivenese. The government would spell out ways of compensation and other
obligations for policy-oriented operations. On the other hand, the enterprises
will Mve to shoulder losses from profit oriented activities that stem from poor
management.
30.  The state-owned grain sector enterprises will engage themselves mainly in
food, animal feed and other related industries. However, they are also being
actively encouraged to diversify their activities and to participate in both
urban and rural markets and in domestic and international markets to introduce
advanced technology and management skills. Efforts will be made to make the
responsible enterprises more profitable by developing foreign and domestic trade,
variety exchange, and value-added in processing activities.
31.  The diversified grain marketing and distribution system now in existence
will expand rapidly in the years ahead. In addition to state-owned enterprises,
financially competent entrepreneurs and traders are encouraged to participate in
the business enterprises, irrespective of their forms of ownership. Those with
adequate funds and storage capacities can be licensed to open trading at the
wholesale level upon receipt of approval by Grain Bureau authorities and
registration at State Industrial and Commerce Administration. All entities and
individuals, with permission from the appropriate Industrial and Commercial
Administrative department and paying taxes in accordance with the law, are
legally protected in the grain retail business operations. consequent to price
deregulation, the increased involvement of competent non-state entities in
wholesaling, processing and other grain marketing functions is foreseen. By the
end of the Eighth Five Year Plan period, the government will, by taking practical
steps, have created an equal and just environment for all enterprises and
business entities in regard to taxation, financing and price management.
Reform of Administrative Institutions
32.    Government institutions responsible for grain management are already
reducing staff numbers, and in the future will focus more on functions supportive
of market-based operation in the grain sector, such as forecasting, guiding,
coordination, supervision and the provision of market information services. The
establishment of information networks is high on the government'e policy agenda.
other tasks of grain administrative institutions include the administration of
standards to maintain acceptable levels of hygiene and sanitation, enterprise
licensing, supervision of grain trading activities and the maintenance of overall
supply and demnd balances.
33.   Apart from reliance on financial, fiscal, taxation, credit, and legal
instruments to achieve market regulation, a major corollary task of grain
administrative institutions is to rapidly augment grain reserves at different
levels and improve their management, which are regarded as an important physical
instrument for the indirect regulation of market performance. The size of the
grain reserve for the country as a whole will remain more or less at current
levels, but improvements will be made in stock management. The mix of grain
varieties and the location of reserve stocks will be adjusted to reflect changing
patterns of production and consumption. The pace for establishing local grain
reserves will be quickened. Technical assistance to farmers on proper storage
and on-farm facilities will be made available.
safety Not
34. The government is mindful that grain price deregulation, the inception of
enterprise reform and the down-sizing of admLnistrative departments could pose
hardship for pensioners and other vulnerable segments of society, as well as to
redundant staff in the Ministry of Commerce system. However, the immediate
impact of price deregulation has ben mild, increasing the average pensioner's



- 69 -                            ANNEX 2
Page 9
expenditures on grain to a level of about 25 percent of their cash income. As
most pensioners continue to reside in housing provided by their work units, and
also receive considerable non-cash benefits, this level of expenditure is by no
means excessive. None-the-lese, cash supplements are being provided in many
locales to ease the adjustment.
35.   The need for a generalized system of social insurance is recognized,
however, both to expand coverage under the pension system (currently enterprise-
based in the main) and to ease the burden on enterprises of having to fully
finance work force pension plans as they become responsible for their own profito
and losses. Preparations for a national system are well advanced. Several citie
and municipalities (eg. Guangzhou and Shanghai) have already established social
insurance plans, and experiments are underway in Hainan Province and in the
Shenzhen Special Economic Zone. The government has assigned high priority to the
formulation of national programs, which will be designed in part on the
experience gained in the above locales.
36.  The down-sizing of administrative departments is being fostered by several
means, and local variations exist. Staff nearing retirement are being offered
the option of early retirement.  Others who wish to leave the Ministry of
Commerce system for new jobs are being permitted to do so.   Some poorly
performing staff are being retrained. Alternative employment opportunities are
being provided for the large bulk of staff redundancies, in existing enterprises
as they diversify their operations, but mainly in new companies being established
with official support to develop tertiary activities. Policies will be refined
as enterprise reform and the reorganization of the Grain Bureau system proceeds.
PART T2RUU.  EADIN IN8TITUTION8
37.   By most measures, the reforms which China is now introducing in its grain
sector represent a quantum leap in the progression from central planning to
market-driven development. When the program was accelerated in 1991, the risks
presented a psychological leap to the leadership and the population alike; grain
security has long been the cornerstone of China's modernization strategy.
Successful reforms in 1991 and 1992 further heightened our confidence. The
reforms also anticipated an institutional leap. The administrative and economic
institutions in the grain sector were not market economy oriented and their
conversion, now well underway, will continue to present an important challenge.
38.  The government anticipates that a continued monitoring will be required as
China implements this nationwide experiment, and that policies will have to be
adjusted and even reformulated in some instances as the reforms -- now
irreversible -- gain added momentum.  This will require the monitoring of
production performance and consumption balances, as well as the performance of
enterprises responsible for marketing, processing, transportation and the
provision of finance to the grain sector. It will also entail a tracking of the
spread of key parts of the program to new administrative jurisdictions, attention
to the welfare of vulnerable consumers and poor area households, and the careful
review of the performance of government agencies as they down-size their staffs
and adjust their roles from the requisites of the planned economy to the more
indirect stance of market regulatLon, guidance and the provision of essential
technical advice and information services. Considerable investment, technical
assistance and training are required to enable the conversion of state
enterprises to commercial operation, improve the efficiency of grain logistics
in China, and to establish a market-oriented regulatory framework in the grain
sector. The Grain Distribution and Marketing Project has been designed with
these ends in mind.
39.  The guiding policies for the reform wlll continue to be under the
leadership of the State Council and formulated by the MinLstry of Commerce's



70-                              AM  2
Page 10
multi-agency  Policy  Advisory  Group  in  collaboration  with  other  related
departments, and shall be implemented as planned upon receipt of approval from
the State Council.  Ministry of Commerce and other related departments are
responsible for providing guidance, supervision and review of plans formulated
by the locales. In doing so, the Ministry of Commerce will make efforts to ensure
that the reforms progress steadily towards the objectives of marketization and
commercialization.
40.   Routine monitoring of the reform process and reporting will be effectuated
through existing channels, which are well developed and designed to provide
timely  feedback  on  problems  being  encountered.    Specialized  government
departments and institutes such as the State Commission for Restructuring the
Economic Systems, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, the Development
Research Center of the State Council, the State Price Administration, State
Statistical Bureau and the Ministry of Agriculture's Research Center for Rural
Uconoay will be asked to commission special studies and surveys from time to
time, as and when needed. Successful reform experiences will continue to be
publicized. Further, the Ministry of Commerce will continue to (a) organize
national and regional conferences, workshops and symposia to publicize the
reforms, review progress, share experiences and seek additional feedback, (b)
make extensive use of mass media to reach a wider audience, and (c) sponsor study
visits within China and abroad for grain bureau personnel and enterprise staff
to enable them to exchange views and observe good practices" first hand.
41.  On the basis of the program reviewed above, and the arrangements being made
to implement the reforms and monitor progress, the Ministry of Commerce is
confident that Chinas transition from plan to market in the grain sector can
proceed with minimal disruption. Though mid-course corrections will undoubtedly
have to be made, the general conception of the reform program, general objectives
of developing market economy and its main elements will not be altered. We
anticipate that the entire population will benefit as the socialist market
econcoy becomes firmly established in the grain sector.
/su Bai Meiqing
Vice-Minister
Dateat March 12, 1993



Implementation Schedule
Northeast Corridor
1   1993    1   1994    1   1995  _1    1996   _1  1297    1   19981
Activity                        L __ ____         _
Dayao Bay Port
- Desian_==:
- Tenderln8 and Award
- Medh/Elect Contract Execution
- Con3truction Contract Execution           =  G  =  =            -  - =  =  =  _     -
- Caomissioning
Yingkou Port
- Defign
- tendering and A"ard
- MFch/Elect Contract Executlon
- Construction Contract Execution
-Colsmissioning
Inland Facilities                         ph se                     pb %s  2            ph  ae
- Tendering and Award
-MachAElectContract Excation
- Constructian Contract Execution     _            -  - = = _  _  = 3 _
*Cinmissuining-----                                                                             ---           ---
Bulk Truck
Rail Wagons                                                                  -7
Detailed implementation schedules can be found in the feasibility study.



Implementation Schedule
Yangtze River Corridor
_________________          1993         9        .4   1995   1  9 2i96     1997
Activity____ 
- Design
-Tendering
and Award
-Mech/Elect Contract
Execution
* Zhangjiagang
*   Nantong
* ushij i
*   Tujisban
*  Wuhan                                                      -- _  2
*  Chenglingji                          -      - =  = _             - =
- Construction Contract
Execution                             -----                                     
-Commissioning                                                  = =  = =  =
-Barges
-Bulk Truck                                      =     - - - c
- Rail Car
- - - denote float
Detailed implementation schedules can be found in the feasibility study.
rt4



IMplementation Schedule
Southwest Corridor
1993   1   1  1   15    '  1996    1    99jZ_I
Activity
- Design
- Tendering and Award
- Mach/Elect Contract
Execution
*   Fangcheng Port
* Transfer Depots
 Manning
> Guilin
> Liuzhou
> Rail Litang/Luizhou
> Flour Mill Receiving
Guizhou/Yunnan
- Construction Contract                     = 
Execution
- Commissioning
- Bulk Truck
Detailed implementation schedules can be found in the feasibility study.



-74-
Annx 4
Table 4.1
-                                 ~~~~~CHINA
Grain Distibution and Marketing Project
Prqject Cdst Su=mma
Y milllon  _                 US8 million            percent   percent
Aot*ivtr                 Local.   Foreign    Total         Local  Foreign    Total      F.X.   base cost
Northeat Corri.do       1,995.9  1,886.0   3.882.0       344.1     325.2     669.3      48.6       79.2
Port Terminals            544.3     498.8   1,043.1       93.8      86.0     179.8      47.8       21.3
lntemedlata Depots        934.0     568.5  1,402.4      143.8       98.0     241.1      40.5      28.6
Prlaary Depots            483.9     335.9    819.8        83.4      57.9     141.3      41.0       16.7
Transport Equipment        76.8     397.2     474.0       13.2      68.5      81.7      83.8        9.7
t.ntt  Blier Corridor  396.0        277.8     613.9       57.9      47.9     105.8      45.3       12.5
River Terminals           231.4     154.7     386.2       39.9      26.7      66.6      40.1        7.9
Hinterland Depots          73.9      19.7      93.6       12.7       3.4      16.1      21.0        1.9
Tranport Equipment         20.5      87.9     108.4        3.5      15.2      18.7      81.1        2.2
southwest CorrLdor         99.3     141.3     240.7       17.1      24.4      41.5      58.7        4.9
Port Terminal              41.9      68.7     110.6        7.2      11.8      19.1      62.1        2.3
Hinterland Depots          53.1      48.0     101.1        9.1       8.3      17.4      47.5        2.1
Transport Equipment         0.0      18.0      18.0        0.0       3.1       3.1     100.0        0.4
Heijins CenCal Depot       64.0      56.0     120.0       11.0       9.7      20.7      46.6        2.4
tech. Asst. and tvaiatas  71.9      107.5     179.4       12.5      18.4      30.9      60.0        3.7
lMbket Serrince             2.8      43.2       46.0       0.S       7.4       7.9      93.9        0.9
Ihengshou Market            0.1       9.3       9.4        0.0       1.6       1.6      99.0        0.2
Shanghai Market             1.4       7.2       8.6        0.2       1.2       1.5      83.6        0.2
Zhngyshou College           0.1       5.4       5.5        0.0       0.9       1.0      97.9        0.1
Nanjing College             0.9       4.7       5.6        0.2       0.8       1.0      84.2        0.1
Grain Info. Center          0.3      16.6       17.0       0.1       2.9       2.9      98.0        0.3
Total HSe Cost          2,494.9  2,407.6  4,902.5        430.2     415.1     845.3      49.1      100.0
Centiagin
Pbysica               185.2    178.7      363.9       31.9      30.8      62.7      49.1        7.4
Priee                 246.2     237.4     483.6      42.4       40.9      83.4      49.1       9.9
TOtoL Project Cost      2,926.6  2,823.3  5,750.0        504.6     486.8     991.4      49.1      117.3



CHINA
GRAIN DISTRIBUTION AND MARKEtNG PROJECT
NEC: Cost Sumary
Eastern                                                                       foreign Exchange
Dayao Bay (DOT) Sayuquan (B6T)  Innor Mongolia   Hilomngjiang        Jilin           Li1oning        Total                %bl
tillion        Million         H1l110o         M14111n          Milloon Mmillin M1nillion  million                  illoen
Unit Number    Yuan Number    Yuan Number    Yuan Number    Yuan Number    Yuan Number    Yuan    Yuan USS %bI                   USS %bI
-.._.----_-____-_,---.__-_-----,-,_----,,--_--_-----_-_---_-----__---_,---_--__--_----_-_------_---_-__---------_-_-----------_----_-----_---_,-..____----...-_-...._-----_
A. PORT GRAIN TERMINALS
l Works
Rails on docks        maeter   900    2.45   215    0.s4                                                                        2.99     0.62       25    0.13
Recoiving gallery     meter    SOO      2.00                                                                                    2.00    0.34        2#     0.09
Shipping gailry      meter    480      1.92    NO      3.20                                                                     S.12     0.89       2S    0.22
Railways %S/                          47.30            10.60                                                                    67.80    9.97        45    4.40
Storage %a/                           145.69           61.84                                                                   207.53   35.78        4S   16.10
Labor and overead                     99.90           40.19                                                                    140.09   24.15       26    6.04
Narbor developmnt                      83.96                                                                                    83.95    14.47       26    3.62
Other %*/                             22.63            13.23                                                                    #.86      6.18       30     1.86
2. Equipmnt & Installation
Ship Loaders/Unloaders                 82.66           15.31                                                                    97.97    16.89      100   16.69
Receival systems                       49.02          12.23                                                                    61.2S    10.56        80    8.46
Shipping System                        32.81          27.44                                                                     60.25    10.39       s0    8.31
Cleaners                                4.23           2.96                                                                      7.19     1.24       80    0.99
Workhouse equipment                    19.89           17.69                                                                    37.68     6.40        0o    s.18
Electrical                             43.70           17.44                                                                    61.16    1O.S4       SO    6.33
Dust control system                    1S.94           6.84                                                                     22.78    3.93        80    3.14
Labor and overheads                   112.36          45.21                                                                    167.57    27.17       1S    4.08
Other                                   1.43           0.64                                                                      2.97     0.34       30    0.10
S. INtERMEDIATE DEPOTS        number                                       6              17               25              11
1. Land Purchase              u                                                                        60     2.00    260     3.76     6.76     0.99 
2. Works and Equipment
Storages               ton                                  267660   111.98 776750   324.74 1632000   660.03 371000   155.11  1249.86  t15.49        40   86.20           1
Rail sidings         meter                                    3070    6.14  S200    10.40   13800   27.60  3160    0.30   60.44    8.70              46    3.91
Mechanical Driers       tpd                                    500     6.22    NOO   26.44    440   28.00    so0    6.22   66.89    11.63            so    s.77
Other                                                                  3.00            8.60            12.50            6.60    29.50    6.09        43    2.19
C. PRIMARY DEPOTS             numbr                                       28              7s              113              60
1. Works and Equipment
Storages                ton                                 126000    39.84 662080   209.31 736000   227.s4 699000  189.38  664.07   114.84          40   46.94
Sheds               sq Moter                                 23000    6.90  44000    13.20  63000    18.90                      39.00    6.72        40     2.69
Truck loading units  numbr                                      23     5.07     44    9.70       62    13.67    31    6.84   3s.28    6.08           40    2.43
Mchanical Driers        tpd                                    200     5.19    100   31.73    300    12.44    M00   30.07   79.44    13.70           s0    6.85
0. TRANSPORT EQUIPMENT
Rail wgons           number                                                                                                    308.00    53.10       75   39.83 ;
Trucks               number                                     81    16.80   201   41.69    397    74.11    161   33.39  16S.99   28.62            100   28.62
C. TA AND TRAINING                             34.20            13.76           8.08           26.42            4.68            15.63  142.67    24.60        60    14.76
eas. Cost                            802.07          288.94          209.21          702.14          1119.30          452.20 3081.94  469.30         49  325.18
Physical Contingency                  61.43           22.01           12.23           38.66            00.27           21.64  224.25   38.66         49    18."
Price Contingency                     86.39           30.60           22.37           76.14           119.52           46.15  416.81    71.69        49   34.83
Total Cost                           948.89          341.56          23.81           815.94          1307.17          622.38 4622.00   779.66        49  37.80
la/  Includes significant smunts of equipment end installation.
b/ Yn.e0 - US$1.O0
TA and Training: 6% of base cost for ports (excluding baebor development) and IDs. 3% for PDM
Physical Contingncyt 8% of baso cost (excluding TA and Training) for ports and tOs. 3% for PDs. and 0% for transport equipment.
Price Contingencyt 11.12X f  bse" cost (including harbor development and transport equipment, but excluding TA & Tren1"ing).                                                   I*
a 
4- 41



GRAIN DiSTRIWUTa AID  UTtiU PROJtT
InCs Cost _Mar
.............................. .................................... .................................................................. ............... 0...................................  
Mhttlas       Mitlion         Nillion         Mittion        Million         Miltlon Mnilttm   Nittion         Mittion
Unt Mudie       Yuen Ntwber    Yuen Utaber    Yuen Mudice      Yuen Miuter    Yuan Mister    Iuan    Yuan tIl m  N/         I  u 11%ol
...................................... ...................................................................................................................................
A. RIVER GRAIN TIUNIULS
1. Land Ptches               an                      12    0.60   250   10.08   122   11.29    30    S.S0'   10    0.29   27.68            4.n7
2. rLwks
flied berth         q meter  5760   20.00   2960    9.10    100   10.00  4640   15.20  2500    9.00   1200    5.00   68.30    11.78              30    3.53
flo*etbn  berth                                                                       1.12           0.84                     1.96    0.34       30    0.10
Silt                   ton  15000    6.75  55000   23.65  20000    8.00 20000    8.51  10000    4.00  6000    2.40   53.31             9.19       33    3.03
vercfouse,             ton  1O00O    2.42                                   25000    S.90  1S000    4.50  10000    2.50    15.32    264           16    0.42
Power sUsply            VA    2000    2.00   2000    4.51                                                                     6.51     1.12      33    0.37
Conveyor           tq meter  1600    0.80   2800       1.68   280    0.55             0.10           2.00   250    0.75    5.88        1.01       30    0.30
=ail Sding           mter                                     40    14.00  1540    6.60   220    0.80                        21.40    3.69        30    1.11
Other                                  1.16            2.5T           2.16            7.01            3.54           2.69    19.13    3.30        10    0.33
3. Eqipmnt £ Instatatiton
Ship wulndoar                                                  200    3.50                    1SO    2.50                     6.00     1.03      100    1.03
Ship Id                tu                      4M00    4.00   200    2.40   .200      2.40                                    8.30     1.52      100   1t.2
Craf                   ten      20    7.00    32    10.80                      20    5.00    10    2.S0       13    2.80   28.10       4.84      100    4.84
Sllo equilpmt                          2.78            L.Os           3.51            2.48            3.00           2.10   19.72    3.40         8o    2.72
erehosem  qaInt                        0.46                                           2.31            0.60                    3.37    0.58        35    0.20
Conveyor  tlent        ater    40    0.87   770    2.53                               1.20                                    4.68     0.61      sO    0.6S
ltectric control                       2.00            7.00           4.06            3.90            2              2.12    21.56    3.72        60    2.23
Ismtettatlen                           S.18           8.39            3.60            1.26                                   18.43    3.18        10    0.32
tralning A clIW                        3.30            6.48                           5.06            3.00           2.61   20.65    3.56         60    2.14
othr                                   3.46            2Me            V."6           12.01            5.12           2.27   35.34    6.09         30    1.83
*. ElEiUlEAUD FACILITItE
1. Land Pedce                mu                                                                                    56     1.61     1.61    0.23                               -4
2. tubrh a&  qui                                                                                                                        .                                     0t
PrImry      t          ton                                  12000o 0   34.00 10      24.20                 4060    10.36   68.56    11.02         25    2.96
eWrs                tAer                                                                                       2      1.42    1.42    0.24        24    0.06
lval stetm-    a       r                                         7    9.24      6    12.77                                   22.01      .79       10    0.36
C. TRAIPIt 6m"IET'
NofuRk                                                                                                  15.00    12.93       75    9.70
a a Irv"n           mber                                        28    5.04     10    1.80                                     6.8      t.18       15    0.65
Trucks              tter                                        so   10.00    40    8.00    13    2.60    30    6.00   26.60    4.59             10o    4.59
D. tA AD TAINING
tmotol                                 2.9             4.50           6.49            6.91            2.60           2.26   25.66    4.42         60    2.6S
lase Cost                             61.09           94.46         136.23          145.11           S4.60          47.38  613.86   105.84        45   47.90
Phnleot contIngncy                     8.47           13.09          18.88           20.11            7.57           6.56    74.67    12.87       4S    5.33
Prtce Contingecy                       3.90            6.04           8.71            9.27            3.49           3.03   39.47    6.60         4S    3.08
Total Cost                            73.46          113.58         163.81          174.49          65.66           56.97  728.00   12.52        4S   S6.60
.....................................................................................................................................................................
WV  YS.80 *111.00
TA ad Trainingi St of totat  cc tet.
Physcal contngcy  15X of be coat (excluding TA e  Tralning  d berges).
Price contingeny: 6.712 of base coot (excltdlng TA ad Training ad berons).
I.a



CUIUA
GRAIN DITlWl TION AM IMTI   PROECT
BD and UI: Cost _ries
... **,, 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.................................... ............................................................................................. ....................
Total           Foreign ExdCha            Total          Foreign EacuU
........................ ..................................  ...................................... ......... ............ .. ....  ........
Nittion  Nltiwn           Nlilt.n         Ntillion  Nlillan          Illtion
Unit  _wer       Yuen US W           X U#s W  lXber        YuAn USS W         X  11# W
....................................... ......................................................................................    ............ 
A. CITY & POT WAiN TEUIULS
1. tiwd   ass                mu              9.09     1.57                     10l    9.60      1.66
2. Hark
stlo                    ton            27.20     4.69      4S    2.11  50000   21.58    3.72        4S      1.67
aIlwty                meter   3700    S.50       0.95      45     0.43    556    3.51      0.61      4S    O.2
Rtitvay Shed                            4.14     0.71      25    0.18
Unloadig Pit & 1.wm1                    3.23     0.56     4S      0.25
Conpr                                                                             2.77    0.48      30    0.14
Pea  ualy                               2.40     0.45      33     0.15            3.79    0.65       33    0.22
S ervic nfratruture                     4.1S     0.72      30    0.21             1.50     0.26     30    0.08
Trainir  center                         3.22     0.56      30    0.17
Otero                                   8.85     1.53      30     0.4             1.;7     0.32     30    0.10
3. Iqpjet & Inteitettotn
ship untr               tph                                               Boo800    23.33  4.02     100    4.02
sit* qufpmt                            10.29      .?       so     1.4w2           7.90     1.36      s0     1.09
wb iso  O* epint                       10.70     1.81     Be      1.48           14.75    2.54       00    2.03
Cenaswreq dmt                           4.78     0.82      80    0.66             7.63     1.32      s0     1.05
Railway  tlwoding                       2.4      O.6       60    0.27             3.29     O.S?      60    0.34
Track lodilg                            O.S0     0.09      S0    0.04             1.87    0.32       S0    0.16
Eleetre control                        17.56    3.03       60     1.82            5.63     0.97     60    O.S5
other                                   0.26     0.80      30    0.01             1.5a    0.27       30    0.08
N. IUTERUI FACtLITIES
1. TrIsfD   Depots        t er                                                   3
H.rks                                                                            36.48    6.29       2S     1.57
Eqapip t                                                                         26.S2    4462      80    3.70
2.  lecvatl Stations       aer 
Huks                                                                             23.17    3.9        25     1.00
qaipmet                                                                          14.61     2.52     80      2.02
C. TRAWSPOR7T EWIPUNT
Trucbs               usber                                                90    18.00    3.10       100    3.10
P. TA ASD TMAININ                                S.28    O.91       60    O.SS            11.00    1.90       60     1.14
Basn cost                             119.99    20.69      49    10.20          240.69   41.50      59    24.37
PhysicaI Contingency                   21.77    3.75       49    1.85           42.43      7.32     S9    4.30
Price Ccotisomic6 8.24                           1.42     49    0.70             26.8?    2.91      S9      1.71
TotaP   Cost                         S10.00   2S.86        49    12.75         300.00   51.72       59   30.38
W 5.80 * US$1.00
Physicel Cantliwancy: 20X (for CD) end 18X (for SVC) of bene cost (extluding land purdoase).
Price Contfngency: 7.43X for RCD base est (excluding land) and 7.01X for SUC total base cost.
~.hE



CHINA
GRAIN DISTRIBUTION AND NARIKETING PROJECT
Services Comonent: cost Sumary
.. .  . .............. ...... ........... ..... .. ........................ ... ....... ................... .... .... .
MIDl                           uIs. Sa/
........................... .. ... ................ . .... ....*. ...
S*roJect                 Local    Foreign      Total       Local    Foreign      Total
zhnhoud Narket
Euipment                         6,661,799  6,661,799          0  1,148,586   1,148,586
Training                90,000   1522,500  1,612,S00      lS,S1?    262,500    278,017
Tech. Assistance                 1.077,060  1.077.060          0    185,700    185,700
Dose cost               90,000  9,261.359  9,351,359      15,517  1,596,786  1,612,303
Contingencies            7,757    796,189    805,945       1,337    137,619    138,956
Subtotal                97,757 10,059,547 10,157,304      16,855  1,734.405  1,751,259
Shanghi Narket
Eupm ent              1,324,400  4,963,650  6,308,050    228,345    859,2S0  1,087,595
Training                90,000   1,522,500   1,612,500    15.S17    262,500    278,017
Tech. Assfstace                    699,190    699,190          0    120,S    120,550
ase Cost              1,414,400  7,2,340  8,619,740    243,862  1,242,300  1,486,162
Continences            121,900    620,991    742,891      21,01?    107,067    128,085
Subtotal             1,S36,300  7.826,331   9,362,631    264,879  1t349,367  1,614,247
Zh_nzo Grain Cottege
Equipment                        3,936,663  3,936,663          0    678,735    678,735
Training               109,105    679,760    788,865      18,811    117,200    136,011
Tech. Assisttce                    793,730    793,730          0    136,850    136,850
Base Cost              109,105  5,410,153  5,519,258      18,811    932,785    951,596
Contfngeniefe            9,403    466,273    475,676        1,621     80,392     82,013
Subtotal               118,508  5,876,426  5,994,934      20,432  1,013,17m  1,033,609
Grafn Informtimn Center
Equlpoent                       14,793,608 14,793,608          0  2,550,622  2,550,622
Trafning               335,950    M,034  1,070,984        57,922    126,730    184,652
Tech. Assistance                 1,104,030  1,104,030          0    190,350    190,350
Os Cost                335,9 0 16,632,672  16,968,622     S7,922  2,867,702  2,925,6z4
Contingencles           28,954  1,433,484  1.462.438       4,992    247,152    252,144
Subtotat               364,904 18,066,S5  18,431,059     62,914  3,114,854  3,177,769
Uwujing Collteg of
Foodgrain Economics
Equipment              876,950   1,509,393   2,446,343    151,196    270,585    421,7M
Training                         1,958,080   1,98,0B0    337,600    337,600
Tech. Assistanc                  1,169,280  1,169,280          0    201,600    201,600
Base Cost              876,950  4,696,753  5,573,703    151,196    809,785    960,963
Contingencies           75,580    404,789    40,369       13,031      69,7V1     82,822
Subtotal               952,530  5,101,542  6,054,072    164,229    879,576  1,043,805
Total                  3,069,998 4,930,002 S0,000,000    S29,310  8,091,380  8,620,690
......._.. ...._...........................................................................4.....
Note: The Shanghai Government's contributfon, of RU4I,118,200 for Shanghi Norket, arw an
additional  30,102,300 for training at the ZhDzhw Grain College, are not included.
No/ 15.80 a US$1.OO
Physical Contng   X2 of total base cost.
Price Contingency: 7  of total base cst.



- 79 -
Annex 5
Chart 1
CHINA
GRAIN DISTRIBUTION AND NARKETING PROJECT
DISBURSMMNT SCHEDULE
500
400
0       3
*
200
100                                                                  -     -
1994       1995       1996       1997       1998       1999
Fiscal Year and Semester
Semestral  g     Cumulative



* 80 -
Table 5.1
CHINA
Grain Distribution and Marketiug Project
Estimated Disbursement Schedule and Proftle
ZURDIDkA                         Rstimated DibursesburDis Mursement Profile Il
Fiscal YOST           Sgettralt          Cumulative      Camaativ.               Yearl      CauAISttVe
and Semester          - - - (US$ million) - - -             Ce) emester                         (t)
PY 1994                                                                      Year 1
Jul-Doe 93                19                 19                4                   lot             0
Jan-Jun 94                21                 40                8                   2nd            18
n 1995                                                                        Year 2
Jul-Dec 94                61                101               20                   tst           24
Jan-Jun 95                67                168               34                   2nd            31
fT 1996                                                                       Year 3
Jul-Dee 95                65                233               48                   1ot           47
Jan-Jun 96                62                295               60                   2nd           52
fY 1997                                                                      Tear 4
Jul-Dec 96                54                349               71                   loet          61
Jan-Jun 97                43                392               80                   2nd           71
Ft 1998                                                                      Year 5
Jul-Dec 97                41                433               88                   lot           79
Jan-Jun 98                33                466               95                   2nd           82
FY 1999                                                                      Year 6
Jul-Dec 98                16                466               98                   lot           86
Jan-Jun 99                 a                490             100                    2nd           98
year 7
lst          100
Ucara Datae               June 1993
Completion Dates          June S0, 199"
Closing Date:             June S0, 2000
las     Disbursement profile to an average of agricultural end transportation infretructure
sectors, compiled by Central Operations Department, Jun.e 1992



- 81 -
ANNME 6
Page 1
cam
Graln Distribution and Narketing Project
Project PregarAtion and Economic Analysis
1.        Early project investigations revealed that incapability to move
large volumes of grain interprovincially and interregionally - the lack of a
bulk handling and transport system - limited the development of rational grain
markets (and the benefits of regional specialization and trade). Pursuing
bulk system development as an objective, it rapidly became apparent that such
a systemic innovation could not develop universally or haphazardly, except at
the costs of decades of time and billions of dollars (much wasted), but would
have to be focussed on certain natural transport corridors where existing or
projected grain flows merited bulk movement. Within such corridors, all
elements (storage, handling, transport vehicles, processing) would have to be
integrated and mutually compatible. The obvious first such corridor was in
Northeast China, where enormous increases in agricultural productivity
occurred in the early 1990s (and are projected to increase further by 2000),
leaving huge and unmanageable surpluses of maize, and to a smaller extent,
soybeans. This is a collection corridor, assembling shipments from hundreds
of intermediate depots, thousands of primary depots, and millions of farmers,
and hence represents a much larger investment in facilities than do the
cox-idors oriented to distributing grain supplies to consumption centers.
These distribution corridors are typically oriented towards a relatively small
number of processing plants, e.g. flour, oilseed, feed and rice mills.
2.        The issue of how to link the Northeast surpluses and Yangtze Basin
and Southern deficits was a major one. Due to unrealistically low rail
tariffs, at the time of preparation rail transport to any region of China
(including southern ports) from the Northeast was both far cheaper than water
transport, and also totally congested. Normal transport economies in free
market systems favor bulk water transport over bulk rail for very long
distances and it seemed reasonable that over the project life, price
llberalization and rationalization would lead to similar price relatives in
China. But, two considerations led to a focus on bulk sea shipment of
northeastern surpluses as a major development and project strategy: (i)
programmatically, the railway constraint to the Beijing and Shanghai regions
are points south and west was so severe, that only the relatively uncongested
rail route from Shenyang down the Liaodong Peninsula and sea transport
appeared feasible for incremental flows in the millions of tons; (ii) much of
the northeastern surplus which can be evacuated is now exported, and given
agricultural developments in Korea, Taiwan (China), and Japan, such exports
should continue over the indefinite future. The Liaodong ports are ideally
situated to serve those markets, particularly if grain quality can be improved
and port handling made more efficient. Given unavoidable uncertainties about
the distribution of shipments of surplus northeast feedgrains over the long-



- 82 -
AM 6
Page 2
term, between export and distant domestic markets, a focus on the Liaodong
ports as the major bulk outlet provides maximu flexibLlity.
3.        Key additions or modifications to initial project concepts
introduced by preparation and preappraisal missions include the following: (i)
the integration of all wheat Import and 65 percent of the maize export
operations ln the vast DalLan port complex, in a modern integrated bulk
handling terminal to be built on a newly constructed wharf at Dayao Bay1;
(ii) a systematic approach and major investment in drylng of northeastern
maize, the lack of which is a major cause of current grain quality problems in
China; (iii) fundamental redesign of the current standard railway hopper car
(K17) in China, to set the standard for all future bulk rail transport of
grain in China; and (iv) the emergence of the southwest coast, starting with
the port of Fangcheng in Guangxi Province, as a major bulk import route (for
wheat, maize and other grains), following the new railway nort+s to Nanning,
and thence west to Kunming as the railway is completed, openil, up a vast,
poor, and remote grain deficit region to economical grain supplies.
4.        As the ton/km costs of water transport are typically less than rail
transport costs, it was initially assumed bulk grain shipments by coastal
vessels from the northeastern ports, transhipped in barges at the Yangtze
River mouth to upstream locations would be economically attractive. However,
cost comparisons of moving grain from Changchun (an important rail marshalling
center in the NE maize producing region) to various southern, maize deficit
destinations by rail alone and by rail-water combinations were not definitive.
The ecgnomic line-haul costs2 of moving a ton of grain from Changchun to
Pukou (Yangtze River mouth), Wuhan (middle reaches of the Yangtze River) and
Guiyang (southwest China) are iterated below:
Dolitin stion                            cst (YltA .
Pukou     rail                                    71.9
rail/water (coastal vessel)             46.6
Wuhan     rail                                    82.7
rail/water (coastal vessel
+ 300 t barge)                         81.5
rail/water (Coastal vessel
+ 3,000 t barge)                       61.7
Guiyang   rail                                   122.0
rail/water/rail                        105.2
For inland southwest or coastal destinations accessible to medium sized
coastal vessels the rail/water or rail/water/rail modal options are more
efficient. However, large modern barges would be required to make the
I/       The Da Yao Bay complex was financed by the Dalian Port Project
(Loan 2907-01A and Credit 1875-CHA)
2/        Yangtze Economic Zone Comprehensive Transport Study Group, Yaunge
Economic Zone Trgnsgort Study, January 1992.



- 83 -
=E  6
Page 3
rail/water mode clearly more efficient for middle Yangtze destinations. The
detailed project investigations further concluded that: (i) much of the Basin
can be served economically by rail from corn surplus areas of Shandong
Province; (ii) repeated transfer handling onto ocean-going vessels in the
northeast, barges and riverboats in the Yangtze estuary, and in the upriver
Yangtze ports themselves, remove most of the cost advantage of water over
rail; (iiI) the somewhat limited future market for the basis's surplus rice in
Shanghai and coastal provinces reduces the potential for downriver backhauls;
and (iv) given these factors, many of the regions's feedmills, including
quality and price-conscious foreign and joint-venture establishments, are
adapting fairly readily to using rice instead of corn as an energy ingredient
In animal feed. The small cost differences between rail and rail/water modes
may well be unimportant relative to the quality of service (speed,
availability, etc.) between the transport modes. As the major trunk rail
lines are highly congested, the availability of service assumes a high
priority. The project retains a Yangtze River Corridor component, as water
transport by modern barge is advantageous particularly where final delivery
can be made by water (e.g. in the river ports themselves, around Dongting and
Poyang Lakes, etc.) or by short truck hauls, and where point-to-potnt volumes
are high. Also, the final post-reform costs of railway carriage are difficult
to project. Nevertheless, the Yangtze River component has been substantially
reduced in scope, size, and cost.



- 84 -
Page 4
gtles on Rconoic Aialysis
ble i.2  Northeast Corridor,
1.        For  U1  corridors, investment costs in financial terms include
physical contingencies but not price contingencies. Port costs in NE include
shared harbor works in the amount of Y 87 mil.
2.        Investment costs in economic terms for domestic items were
calculated using the following conversion factors:
Labor                                       0.98
Civll works                                 1.20
Equipment                                   1.34
The weights for these categories for various project components were as
follows:
Weighted
Labor    Civil Works   Equip.    Average
PDs & IDs        10.41       69.6X       20.0X       1.21
Dalian           16.2X       69.31       14.5X       1.19
Yingkou          15.71        67.8X      16.61       1.19
Rly. Cars                                100.0%      1.34
3.        Benefits per ton of grain were calculated as follows:
Bagged maize: 6.1 mil. tons will shift to bulk, with the following cost
savings per ton:
Reduced spillage losses (11 in NE)        Y  6.45
Reduced handling costs                    Y 47.10
Ship waiting (1/2 of $6500/day)           Y 10.79
Berth capacity freed                      Y 30.80
MSk!  lk maiza: The 3.0 mil. tons of new bulk shipments will contribute value
added to national income:
World price (f.o.b. Dalian, US$ 111.10)   Y 644.4
Less: Farm production costs               Y 143.3
Transport to PD (15 km @ 91 fen)    Y  13.7
Processing at PD                    Y  23.6
Transport to ID (55 km @ 44 fen)    Y  24.2
Processing at ID                    Y  35.7
Transport to port (700 km @ 4 fen)  Y  28.0
Loading at port                     Y   3.6
Net value added                            Y 372.3
For the 1.35 mil. tons destined for the Yangtze River Corridor and the 0.63
mil. tons destined for the South China Corridor, this value added benefit is
divided equally between origin and destination, because investment is required
at both locations. For the remaining 4.02 mil. tons, the full value added
benefit accrues to the Northeast Corridor, because the destination ports
(overseas) already have bulk handling facilities.



- 85 -
AMN 
Page 5
aMe: Cost savings per ton due to shift from bags to bulk:
Reduced spillage (1X in NE)          Y  13.5
Reduced handling costs               Y  50.0
Ship waiting                         Y  10.8
Berth capacity freed                 Y  30.8
at: Cost savings per ton due to bulk handling:
Reduced freight (US$ 6)              Y  34.8
Reduced spillage (2X to NE)          Y  13.7
Ship waiting                         Y  32.2
Berth capacity freed                 Y  42.3
Table 6.3: Yangtze River Corridor
4.        Domestic financial costs have been converted to economic costs
using a conversion factor of 1.20; the works in question are similar to the
investments in the Northeast (see para. 2 above).
S.        Benefits per ton of grain were calculated as follows:
Maize: Captures the other half of the value added per ton, as calculated for
the NE Corridor.
i2va: Cost savings per ton due to bulk:
Reduced spillage (1X)                Y 13.5
Bags saved                           Y 5.9
Wheat: Cost savings per ton due to bulk:
Reduced spillage (2X)                Y 13.0
Bags saved                         *Y  5.9
Ship waiting                         Y 13.7
Rlce: Cost savings from improved handling of bags: Y 12.7 per ton.
Z&ft: Cost savings per ton due to bulk:
Ship waiting                         Y  7.2
Direct to Shanghai (0.15 mil. t)     Y 16.1
Transhipped (0.25 mil. t)            Y 28.8
Table 6.4: South China Corridor
6.        Again, the domestic financial costs were converted to economic
costs using a conversion factor of 1.20, as the works are similar to those in
the Northeast.
7.        Benefits per ton of grain were calculated as follows:
Maizg: Captures the other half of the value added per ton, as calculated for
the NE Corridor.



- 86 -
Page 6
gheA: Cost savings per ton due to bulk:
Reduced handling at Fangcheng        Y 11.7
Ship waiting time                    Y  3.9
Reduced handling in hinterland       Y 15.3
Reduced spillage (22)                Y 13.7
Bags saved                           y  5.9
Zab  6..4 I12iiing Deag
S.        Similar to other major works the domestic financial costs have been
converted to economie costs using a conversion factor of 1.20.
9.        Benefits per ton of grain were calculated as follows:
M1J51: Cost savings per ton due to bulk:
Labor saved on three handlings  . Y 4.5
Bags saved                         y  5.9
Reduced spillage (2Z)              Y 12.9
In a: Cost savings per ton due to bulk:
Labor saved on three handlings     Y 4.5
Bags saved                         Y  5.9
Reduced spillage                   Y 27.4
wheat: Cost savings per ton due to bulk:
Labor saved on two handlings       Y  3.0
Bags saved                         y  S.9
Reduced spillage (2%)              Y 13.7
Ship waiting                       Y 12.6
Rail wagon waiting                 Y  3.0



- 87 -
Page 7
Details of Cost Savins C auaILn
1. Re2d=ced Snillaje/Sioilage
Grain     World Price (S/tonl                Yuan ValIe 2p  1
Naize          $ 111                               6.45
Soya             233                              13.51
Wheat            118                               6.85
2. Reduced Shi, Waiting (China assumed to capture 501)
Corridgr       Shi-Days Saved               Vslge por DU
Northeast
Maize             1774                       $  6500
Soya               457                          6500
Wheat             1711                          6500
Yangtze
Wheat              224                         15000
Paddy              153                          6500
South China
Wheat               97                          6500
Beijing
Wheat              234                          6500
3.  Berth Capacity Freed (@ Y 25,500/berth/day)
B=bthDAXs Saved
Northeast
Naize             3744
Soya               966
Wheat             3788
4. Rail Cars Freed (@ Y 6,800/car-year)
Car-Years Saved
BeiJing              155



GEM~~~~~~ 
Gralin Distribution and Marketing Project
Summary Economlc Analysis
Year                                    1         2        3        4         5        6        7    ...          30
Exchange Rate (R4B/US$):              5.8
1. Economic Costs (ill. RMB)
a. Foreign Items                120.93   446.23   463.33   338.32   219.13    25.25
b. Donestic Items               290.79   993.62  1170.91   942.11   635.08   267.05
c. Total Costs                  411.72  1439.85  1634.23  1280.43   854.21   292.29
2. Benefits                                                    409.04   817.36  1576.72  2106.19  2252.46  2252.46
3. Hot Benefit Stream             -411.72 -1439.85 -1634.23  -871.38   -36.85  1284.42  2106.19  2252.46  2252.46
Net Present Value (at 12%):        6214.4
Economic Rate of Return:               26%
w w - . .. ......
It4
o'a



Grain Distribution and Narketing Project
Economic Analysis: Northeast Corridor
Year                                     1        2        3        4         5        6        7    ...          30
zexhange Rate (R15US$):               5.8
1. Irvestment Costs in Financlal Terms (constant prices)
a. Dalian Port
Foreign (S til.)             6.16    17.44    17.44    17.44      3.08
Domestic (RED .11.)         50.29   142.48   142.48   142.48    25.14
b. Yingkou Port
Foreigna (  il.)             1.99     8.47     8.47      1.00
Domestic    BE  m1.)        17.78    75.55    75.55      8.89
c. 59 Intersed ate Depots
Fore dr at  Depot            1.24     4.22      5.63     5.63     5.63     2.48
Domestic (RED d11.)         71.88   244.40   325.85   325.85   325.85   143.76
d. 279 Primary  ebt
Fo27  reign  1De.t              0.94     3.18     4.24     4.24      4.24     1.87
ForestLI      a (           38.93   132.35   176.46   176.46   176.46    77.85
e. 2400 K20 Ia
Foreirg  ( i.                0.00    13.28    13.28    13.28    13.28
DomesEc      Iml1.)          0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
f. 1041 Bulk Trucks                                                                                                       '0
Foreign (S d         l.)     0.00     8.98     8.98      8.98     8.98
Domestic (RD till.)          0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2. Investment Costs in Economic Terms tin RMB mu.)
a. Foreign Items                 59.89   322.25   336.56   293.23   204.13    25.25
b. Domestic Items               214.27   712.72   864.03   784.70   635.08   267.05
c. Total Investment             274.16  1034.97  1200.59  1077.93   839.21   292.29
3. Grain Flows (at)
a. Maize                                                                        9.10      9.10     9.10     9.10
Bag to Bulk                                                                3.00     5.00      6.10     6.10
New Bulk                                                 1.00     2.00     3.00      3.00     3.00     3.00
b. Soya                                                                         0.80      0.80     0.80     0.80
c. Wheat                                                                        2.40      2.70     3.00     3.00
4. Benefits
a. Bagged Maize to Bulk                                                       285.41   475.69   580.34   580.34
b. New Bulk Maize                                           184.14   523.03   839.79   7U4.55   747.72   747.72
c. Soya                                                                        94.87    94.87    94.87    94.87
d. Wheat                                                                                332.13   369.03   369.03
S. Net Benefit Stream              -274.2  -1035.0  -1200.6   -893.8   -316.2    927.8   1687.2   1792.0   1792.0
Net Present Value (at 12%):        4817.9
Economic Rate of Return:               26%
__   - 1  .  .   -. - - .-  -    -   --   -   -- -   g    --  -      --          i-         s_, 0~~~~~£IO



Grain Vistribttaiin-WMarketing ?roject
Economic Analysis: Yangtze River Corridor
Year                                      1         2        3         4         5        6         7    ...          30
ftchange Rate (RKI/US$):                5.8
1. In Costs i  Financial Terms (constant prices)
b.                                       2 AN 3Vus              2:
c     t  *t~1.)          ? 21    28 9;    29:8        a P
Xtettel,1.)             Hi    40  1    51'A           9: 
d. Ch sEcIt a,ill.)                1:11    J 4A       6i       18M  k
2. Inmestment Costs in Economic Terms   n RKR,ml.)
.Fore    IotemsA*                          '*
b.~O~ e     ltoms                 2           8.56tons
a: C   nevestmont              111'E71'111                  ru
3. Grain PFlo'  (at)
K Katz.                                                         0.68 {: 8           8r8
4  BnefI                                                         125.6t 1s           is 48   22         25       251
c.WheatI222
C: Soy?                                                     125.6    15         181 
d. Ric 4S; A@  i2tA                                                                  it 5  i      - 2   -i    251r
5. Net Benefit Stream               -24.16  -218.56  -294.87       8.18   186.30   227.46   268.63   296.07   296.07              t
Rot Prose t Value (at 12%).          9757
econotic 'ate of Return:                 1%
w 



cHna
Grain Distribution and larketlng Project
Economic Analysis: South China Corridor
Year                                  1        2        3       4        5        6        7   ...         30
Exchange Rate (R?O/US$):            5.8
1. Investment Costs in Financial Terms (constant prices)
A. Foreign Items (S .11.)       4.89     7.36    4.89      1.97
b. Domestic Items (RMB mul.)   39.20   58.95   39.20   15.77
c. Total Imestment (RKB mil.  67.58  101.64   67.58   27.19
2. Imestment Costs ln Economic Terms (in RIB ml.)
a. Foreign Item                28.39   42.69    28.39   11.42
b. Donestic Items              47.04   70.74   47.04    18.93
c. Total Investment            75.42   113.43   75.42   30.35
3. Grain Flows (mt)
a. Maize                                                  0.32     0.38    0.47      0.57    0.63    0.63
b. Wheat                                                  0.24    0.28    0.35       0.42    0.47    0.47
4. Benefits
a. maize                                                 58.64    70.36   87.96  105.55   117.27  117.27
b. Wheat                                                  11.87    14.24    17.80    21.36    23.74   23.74
5. Net Benefit Stream            -75.42  -113.43   -75.42    40.16    84.61   105.76   126.91   141.01   141.01
Net Present Value (at 128):       465.4
Economic Rate of Return:             29%



CURINA
Grain Distribution and Mfark.eting Project
Economic Analysis: Beljing Depot
Year                                   1        2        3        4        5        6        7    ...         30
Exchanse Rate (RIB/JS#):             5.8
1. Investment Costs in Financial Terms (constant prices)
a. Foreign Items ($ ail.)        1.47     3.71     3.10     0.70
b. Domestic Items (R3B mil.)    12.04    30.31    25.32     5.73
c. Total Investment (RMB mil.  20.58    51.82    43.29      9.79
2. Investment Costs in Economic. Terms (in RMB mil.)                                                                      a
a. Foreign Items                 8.54    21.51    17.97     4.06
b. Domestic Items               14.45    36.38    30.39     6.87
c. Total Investment             22.99    57.89    48.36    10.93
3. Grain Flows (ut)
a. Kaize                                                             0.24     0.24    0.24     0.24     0.24
b. Soya                                                              0.09     0.09     0.09    0.09     0.09
c. Wheat                                                             0.35     0.35    0.35     0.35     0.35
4. Benefits
a. Maize                                                             6.34     6.34    6.34     6.34    6.34
b. Soya                                                              3.68     3.68     3.68    3.68     3.68
c. Wheat                                                            13.41    13.41   13.41    13.41    13.41
5. Net Benefit Stream             -22.99   -57.89   -48.36   -10.93    23.42    23.42   23.42    23.42    23.42
Net Present Value (at 12%):          9.5
Economic Rate of Return:              13%
OTHER PROJECT COSTS                   15       15       15       15       15
. I   .                                       -        ZIt X~~~~O
cO ch
U'



- 93 -
Page 1
Grain Distribution and Marketing Project
Proposed IBRD/IDA Supervision Input
proposed                    Activities                      Specia-   Input
date                                                     lization   8/V a
06-07/93  Review Preliminary Designs and Bidding Does.   TX, Engin    12
YRC, SWC, BCD - 1st set. Review Bidding Does.  Procure.
for computer equipment for Train. Centers.      Comput.
9/93      1st Supervision and Project Launch Workshop    TM, M&E         16
for project staff on procurement,               Engin,
disbursement, financial management and          Procure.
Special Account, M&E, reporting, etc.           Disburse
11-12/93  Review Preliminary Designs and Bidding Docs.   TM, Engin    16
NE Ports and Corridor - 2nd set and Bidding    Procure,
documents for telecom. equip.   Review          Pt. Eng.,
Detailed Designs YRC, SWC, BCD - 1st set        Telcom
03/94     2nd Supervision: Review implementation           TM, Engin    12
progress, procurement, disbursement,            Procure,
________   training, and T.A.
6-7/94    Review Detailed Designs NE Port/Corridor         TM, Engin    12
Review Bidding Documents, Review futures        Procure,
l________ market draft legislation                         legal
09/94     3rd Supervision: Review designs/bid docs. on   TM, Engin    12
rail wagons. Review implementation pro-gress,  Procure,
procurement, disbursement, training             Rail Eng.
03/95     4th Supervision: Review Bidding Does. Phase 2  TM, Engin    15
of NEC, Review implementation progress          Procure
(emphasis - futures mkts & training),           Mkt.Spec.
procurement, disbursement,  and T.:             Train
09/95     5th Supervision: Review enterprise reform and  TM, Engin    15
barge design progress, implementation           Procure,
progress (emphasis - marine works Dayao Bay),  Pt. Eng.,
procurement, disburseement, training, & T.A.   Marine,
Inst. Ref
04/96     Kid-Term Review: Review of implementation        TM, Engin    20
progress and prospects, and of grain sector    Procure,
generally, including policies & enterprises.   Ag.Econ.,
Mkt.Spec.
Train.



- 94 -
Page 2
Grain Distribution and Marketing Project
Prooosed IBRD/IDA SuDervision Inout
10/96     6th Supervision: Rewiew Bidding Does. Phase 3  TM, Engin    15
of NEC, Review implement. progress (emphasis   Procure,
- environment), procure, disburse, and T.A.    Environ.        4
04/97     7th Supervision: Review implement. progress    TM, Engin    12
(emphasis - operation of new facilities at      Gr. Mgr.
_ YRC & BCD), procurement, disbursements, T.A.   Fin. Anal
10/97     8th Supervision: Review implement. progress,   TM, Engin    12
(emphasis - operation of Yingkou facilities),  Gr. Mgr.
________ procurement, disbursement, training & T.A.
04/98     9th Supervision: Review implement. progress    TM, Engin    12
emphasis - enterprise reform and training),    Inst Ref.
procurement, disbursement, & T.A.               Train
10/98     10th Supervision: Review implement progress,   TM, Engin    12
procurement, disbursement, operational          Ag Econ,
management, environment,training & TA           Gr. Mgr,
Environ
04/99     Final Supervision: Final stage review of         TM, Engin    12
progress, policy and enterprise reform, and    Gr. Mgr.
initiate preparation for PCR                    Ag. Econ.
Fin. Anal
12/99     PCR Mission: Review and compile project data,  TM, Engin    20
evaluate results, impacts and benefits          Piocure,
Ag. Leon,
Inst Ref.
Gr. Kgr.
Fin. Anal
Total supervision Input (staff-weeks)                         225
2'   staff weeks reflect office, as well as mission, time spent on projec
supervision
Specialization acronyms:
TM          - task manager           Procure     - procurement specialist
Engin       - grain engineer         Disburse    - disbursement officer
Inst Ref    - institutional reform  Environ      - environmentalist
specialist            Ag. Econ.   - agricultural economist
Econ        - economist              Train       - training specialist
or Mgr      - Grain terminal Mgr.   Pt. Eng      - port engineer
telecom     - telecommunications    Mkt. Spec   - futures market expert
specialist            Legal       - lawyer
Fin Anal    - financial Analyst      Rail Eng    - rail wagon design
marine      - marine design engineer               engineer



95 -                             ANK 7
Page 3
CHA
Grain Distribution and Narketing Project
Xa lonitoing Indicators
XS9E        Indicator                                                SX5SLm 
A.          Grain Sector Statig;ic
Al.         Grain Production (by major grain, including at least       Annually
rice, wheat, corn and s0y, and by province)              June 30
A2.         Grain Stocks (totals, by province, for May 31 and          Annually
December 31 of the previous year)                        June 30
A3.         Grain Procurement (by major grain, for previous year,      Annually
by province, differentiating planned, negotiated,         June 30
free market, and other procurement method)
A4.         Grain Trade (by major grain, for previous year,            Annually
Including inflows and outfLows by type of                June 30
procurement/trade method for all provinces)
AS.         Grain Prices (by major grain and by project province,     Annually
for both planned prices and free market annual          June 30
highs and lows)
A6.         Grain Utilization (by major grain for all project          Annually
provinces including direct consumption and              June 30
indirect consumption as animal feed, seed,
production of alcoholic beverages and other
food and non-food industrial uses, and waste)
B.          Grain Sector Poli" and Refora
31.         Major Sectoral Policy Initiatives and Reforms             Annually
June 30
B2.         Plans for Grain Enterprise Reform (prepared by the     December 31,
Reform Advisory Group and/or the Rural Department           1994
of the Systems Reform Commission)
C.          Prieot Proagress Regorts
Cl.         Status of Design Work                                Semi-annually
January 31
& June 30
C2.         Annual Budget and Work Plan (including training,          Annually
for implementation in following year)                November 30
C3.         Audited Account and Auditor's Report (for the             Annually
previous financial year)                            December 31
C4.         Physical Progress (in accordance with format of      Semi-annually
Annex 4 Tables 4.1 to 4.5 to this SAR)                January 31
& June30
CS.         Project Site Throughputs (inflow and outflow',            Annually
Stocks, and Handling (mechanical drying, etc)            June 30
C6.         Environmental Assessment Review (including the            Annually
training program and resettlement actions)               June I,



- 96-                              AMRa
Page 1
CHINA
Grain Distribution and Marketing Project
Selected Documents ad Data Available in the Proiect Files
A.          Reports and Workina Paoers Related to Grain Sector Policy
Al.         China: Options for Refgog in the Grain Sector (Washington, D.C.:
World Bank, 1991)
A2.         "Grain System Reform" Working Paper No. 3 in the supplemental
volumes to Report P-4801-CHA: The President's Report and
RecoAetign  for a Loan &Ad Credit to SMort Rural Sector
Adiustment in China (World Bank, June 1988)
A3.         "China: Some Financial Aspects of Its Grain Trade" (Appraisal
Mission Report, AMEC, Inc., January 1993)
A4.         "Problems of Agricultural Diversification: Some Aspects of Animal
Husbandry and Grain Utilization in China" (Claude Aubert in JMQ
Peasant to Entrepreneur: Growth and Claflie in Rural China, 1992)
B.          Reports. Studies and Workina Papers Related to the Prolect's Grain
Tranagort Corridors and Services Components
All Corridors
B1.l        "Provincial  Grain  Balance  Sheets,  1981-83  and  1988-91"  (G.
Abdukadir, August 1992)
B1.2        "Rail System Transport of Bulk Grain Rail Hoppers" (Preappraisal
Mission Report by J. Manson, October 1992)
Northeast Corridor
32.1        "Northeast Corridor Feasibility Study" (GEM Consultants' Report,
April 1992)
B2.2        "Preappraisal Mission Technical Report on the Northeast Corridor
Subproject" (Canadian Consortium Consultant's Report, October 1992)
B2.3        "Appraisal Mission Report on the Northeast Corridor' (Canadian
Consortium Consultant's Report, February, 1993)
B2.4        "Northeast Corridor Feasibility Study" (WBPO, November, 1992)
B2.5        "Surplus Corn in Northeast China" (Preappraisal Mission Report by C.
Saint-Pierre, October 1992)
Yangtze River Corridor
B3.1        "Preappraisal Mission Technical Report on the Yangtze River Corridor
Subproject* (GEM Consultants' Report, October 1992)
B3.2        "Appraisal  Mission  Report  on  the  Northeast  Corridor"  (GEM
Consultants' Report, January 1993)
B3.3        "Yangtze River Corridor Feasibility Study" (UBPO, August 1992)



- 97 -                             ANN    8
Page 2
IoutvWpst Cosst
B4.1        "Preappraisal Mission Technical Report on the Southwest Corridor
Subproject* (Canadian Consortium Consultant's Report, October 1992)
54.2        "Appraisal Mission Report on the Southwest Corridor" (Canadian
Consortium Consultant's Report, February, 1993)
B4.3        "Southwest Corridor Feasibility Study" (WBPO, November 1992)
Beiiing Central Denot
B5.1        "Preappraisal Mission Technical Report on the Beijing Central Depot
Subproject" (Canadian Consortium Consultant's Report, October 1992)
B5.2        "Appraisal Mission Report on the Northeast Corridor"  (Canadian
Consortium Consultant's Report, February, 1993)
B5.3        *Beijing Central Depot Feasibility Study" (WBPO, November, 1992)
Sorvices Componont
B6.1        "China Training Center for Grain Distribution Management" (Appraisal
Mission Report by Zhou W., April 1993)
36.2        "GDMP Service Sub-Projects" (Appraisal Mission Report by A. Grobman,
February, 1993)
B6.3        "Report on the Feasibility of Establishing Shanghai Cereals and Oils
Exchange" (Preparation Department of the Shanghai Cereals and Oils
Exchange, September, 1992)
B6.4        'Pre-Feasibility Report on Utilizing World Bank Loan for the
Construction of China Zhengzhou Grain Wholesale Market'
56.5        "Report on the National Grain Economic Management Information
System"
B6.6        OA Final Report on the Feasibility Study of the Establishment of the
China Training Center for Grain Distribution Management at the
Nanjing  College  of  Foodgrain  Economics"  (Nanjing  College  of
Foodgrain Economics, January, 1993)
B6.7        "A Report on the Feasibility Study of Physical Distribution Research
and Training Center" (Zhengzhou Grain College, November 1992)



-98 -                              am" 8
Page 1
CH=
Groin Distribution and marketing Project
Primnial ralets Siteg
Noftheast Corridor
Port Gratn Tesmal.s and Intermediate Depots
PoZt Graln Te=nalsa
LlaorAng Province
Dalian (Dayao Bay)      Yingkou (Bayuguan)
Intermdiate D*ote
Liaoning Province                         Jilin Province
1.   Mszhoughe                            1.  Jiangnain
2.   Qujiandian                           2.   PangJ Ltun
3.   Kaoj iadian                          3.   Nongan
4.   Kangping                             4.   Dehui
5.   Faku #3                              5.   Shijiapu
6.   Xinmin                               6.   Yushu
7.   Shenyang #3                          7.  Nanweiji
8.  Kaiyuan                               8.  Taojlatun
9.  Xifeng                                9.  Jiutai
10.  Daqing                               10.  Guojiadia
11.   Dengfa                              11.   Malaha
12. Sanchahe
Heilongjiang Province                           13.   YongJi
14. Qiangorlos
1.   Xinglong                            15.   Wukeshu
2.   Suihua                              16.   Shuangliao
3.   Baoquan                             17.   Dongfeng
4.   Mishan                              18.   Xinmiao
5.  Keshan                               19.   Jinshan
6.  Huling                               20.   Kaian
7.   Songzhan                            21.   Shuangyang
8.   Nenjtang                            22.   Yantongshan
9.   Lanling                             23.   Dabusu
10.  Jiamusi #2                           24.   Zhenxi
11.   Fujin                               25.   Zhenlai #2
12.   Nehe
13.   Huanan                        Eastern Inner Mongolia
14.   Hailun #1
15.  Longzhen                              1.  Zalantun
16.  Wuchang #2                            2.  Mulitu
17.   Kangjing                             3.   Zhebutu
4.  Ulanhot
5.   Ulanhua
6.   Chifeng



99-                             AhMx 9
Page 2
CEHINA
Graln Distribution and NarketIng Project
Yangte River and Southwest Corridor
Port Grain Terminals, Transfer Wharves and Transfer Depots
Port Grain ToemipAl
1.  Nantong, Jiangsu
2.  Zhangj iagang, Jiangsu
3.  Fangeheng, GuangxL
Transfer Vharves
4.  Wuhu, Anhui
S.  Jiujiang, Jiaugxi
6.  Wuuan Municipality
7.  Chenglingj i, Hunan
Intermediate D§p9ts
8.  Narming, Guangxi
9.  Liuzhou, Guangxi
10.  Guilin, Guangxi



I P
RUSSIAN FEDERATION                7.
K...-'"  e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F.
(.
.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
MONGOLIATIG ROEC
6
HE    El                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEMOCRATIC  * 
PEOPLE.S REPUBUIC
KOREA
ANDBGRAIN DISTRIBUTION AND
.2                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~MARKETING PROJECT
Hai                   NORTHEAST REGION AND BEIJING
lb   POlT GOWIN 1UMNALS
IN 5 MM2DJAT DEP0TS
.4G a  D4T* DEPOT
$2                        (f)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PSOWJC  CfAPITAS
NATICNAL CAPITAL
R--  AOAMS
-    IOVa BOUNDAUS
SHANDONG                                 11MON ONP
~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~0  too  200   300



*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                       1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRDR    2M~
"0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
HAA
YtJP~~o+%~   ~                                                                                                         AND SOU AHWET REHGIONA
I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                                      
GRI DISTRINBECTIONAAN
uR~~~~~~~~~MA                                                                        -~~~~~~~~MRKEIAD POJC
AN    SOIUTHWESNT REGNCION
PMtS  TICN    245  ER
MA~~~~~~A~~~~ nOEL  H. NAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~A    MUI)IET ERS
TI          ITS.                                    120~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MNFP   M
mis~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  O
saxm TOWM~~~~~~~~~APIL1



IBRD 24609
\                                                                        E 1             \                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN    
\ RIJSSIAN FEDERATION                              )                             \ FEDERATION         ,        \
KAZAKHSTAN
MONGOLIA                                                                                         /
-U.,      KYRGYZSTAN                                                                                                                                                       JIIN
UZBTKISTAN                                                                                                                          0\
TAJIKIkAN                               HNJhANG
AFGHANISTAN                                                                                                                 GU
Tis map has  8un   tod                                                                                    .                             0 Sh !ihh                                 KOREA op
by The World 8meopltaf
eodousiosly for *he corwenionce  , ilPn@>r/ ~Y 1  
ozf rendersond is for the                                                                                                                                                Sea
Internal sos of The World Bsh
drspTe dnomsisotioco used                                                                                                SAX                   ISNO 
rnd the bouodaries show                                                                       3
on samdo sot smpht m tONGH o th<
port of   World ton g;pv
such boundaries.                                                                                                                                             I _U             East Chino
XIZANG
os.
I                                                                                                                                                   0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
NEPAt wfi X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SICHUAN                                                 ,                               ZIiEJING \
NE~PAL                 o
CHINA
GRAIN DISTRIBUTION AND MARKETING PROJECT                                                                   GHZ
MAJOR GRAIN FLOWS
FLOW OF RICE
OCEAN
FLOW OF MAIZE AND SOYBEANS                                       S
4...   INTERNAJIONAL WHEAT INFLOWS                                   YUN       It.
MAJOR PORTS
PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                    VI                                               KONG UK
FNATIONAL CAPITAL AOoWLS  o                                                                                                                                    2W      4oo    ss      am
FROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                      1b                                                                                             
=  INIENAL E    PEOPLE'SO                      0                           PHIUPPINES               s*ucs o    lOt   Z10   30   slC   XO
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES                                       DEM. R ENAN                                            South Chino        1                     T_5
MARCH 1993



