OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 2518 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Grain Distribution and Marketing Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   LA           , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2518 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dateduLW2X, 1993, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF CHINA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) to provide additional
assistance towards the financing of the Project and by an agreement
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank (the Loan
Agreement), the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an
aggregate principal amount equivalent to three hundred and twenty-
five million dollars ($325,000,000) (the Loan);
(C)   the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures in respect of the
Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for
in the Loan Agreement are made;
(D)   the Association and the Bank have received a letter dated
March 12, 1993, from the Borrower's Ministry of Domestic Trade des-
cribing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
achieve reform of the grain sector in China (the Grain Marketing
Reform Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program; and
WHEREAS, the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a)   "Grain Terminal Company" means each of the Dalian Dayao
Bay Beiliang Company Limited and the Yingkou Bayuquan Jinliang
Company Limited, each a company established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower.
(b)    "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and the Bank for the Project, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the "General
Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank,
dated January 1, 1985, as applied to such agreement, and all sched-
ules and agreements supplemental to the Loan Agreement.
(c)    "MOF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and any
successor to it.
(d)    'MDT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Domestic Trade and
any successor to it.
(e)    "Project Implementation Agreements" means the agreements
to be entered into by MOF and MDT with each of the Project Provinces
in accordance with paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(f)    "Project Province" means each of Anhui, Heilongjiang,
Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin and Liaoning Provinces, Guangxi Zhuang
Autonomous Region and, Nei Mongol Autonomous Region and Beijing Muni-
cipality as well as the cities of Harbin, Wuhan and Shenyang.
(g)    "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿3
(h)    "Subsidiary Loan and Implementation Agreements" means the
agreements to be entered into by MOF and MDT with each of the Grain
Terminal Companies in accordance with paragraph A.2 of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
(i)   "Environmental Assessment Report" means the Environmental
Assessment Report prepared by the Borrower in connection with the
Project and dated November, 1992.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Davel-
opment Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to one hundred and eighteen million nine hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 118,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank and on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one per-
cent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the


﻿4
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to para-
graph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next payment date in that year specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the pur-
poses of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designa-
ted or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 2003 and ending June 1, 2028. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on June 1, 2013 shall be one and
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of
such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration
by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the
terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Associa-
tion may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of


﻿5
interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the prin-
cipal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revi-
sion shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-
mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MDT, the
Grain Terminal Companies and the Project Provinces, with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural,
commercial, and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accord-
ance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan and Implementation Agreements or any provision thereof.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expen-
ditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Associ-
ation has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account or payment out of the Special Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,


﻿7
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;
(iii) enable  the  Association's   representatives  to
examine such records; and
(iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, c.n be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any
party to one of the Subsidiary Loan and Implementation Agreements or
of the Project Implementation Agreements shall have failed to perform
its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any
event specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    all of the Subsidiary Loan and Implementation Agreements
and all of the Project Implementation Agreements shall have been
entered into by the parties thereto;


﻿8
(b)    the Borrower's State Council shall have approved this
Agreement; and
(c)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than those related to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to
the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan and Implementation
Agreements and the Project Implementation Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by all parties thereto and are legally binding
upon the parties in accordance with their respective terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:           Telex:
FINANMIN                 22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:           Telex:
INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
/W( L%
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan, the
allocation of the amounts of the Credit and of the Loan to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
Amount of    Amount of
the Credit    the Loan
Allocated     Allocated        % of
(Expressed    (Expressed      Expendi-
in SDR       in Dollar     tures to be
Category              Equivalent)   Equivalent)     Financed
(1) Works                 33,860,000   102,600,000   24%
(2) Goods
(a) Newly designed       --         34,900,000    100% of foreign
rail wagons                                   expenditures,
100% of local
(b) Other goods       64,990,000   177,500,000    expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 75% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Consultants'          16,430,000         --       100%
services and
training
(4) Unallocated           3,620,000    10,000,000
TOTAL                118900,000   325j000.000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrowe%; and


﻿11
(b) the te2n "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
may be made on account of pay=ents made for expenditures before that
date but after March 31, 1993 in respect of Categories (2) (b) and
(3) for consultants' services and related design equipment in an
aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 2,900,000); and (b) payments in
respect of Category 2 (a) until MDT shall have entered into the main-
tenance agreement in accordanc. with paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(a) its grain sector reforms aimed at improved policy and institu-
tional environments; (b) developing its physical and commodity
markets; and (c) facilitating the expansion and improving the
efficiency of its domestic and international grain trade.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Grain Corridor Improvements
1.    Expanding and increasing the efficiency of grain flows through
the Northeast grain corridor (comprised of Jilin, Liaoning and,
Heilongjiang Provinces and Nei Mongol Autonomous Region) by:
(a) Construction and equipping of a grain terminal at Dayao
Bay port in Dalian, including one wheat unloading berth, two maize
loading berths, and accompanying ship loaders and unloaders, storage
facilities, loading and unloading facilities and other site infras-
tructure.
(b) Construction and equipping of a grain terminal at Bayuquan
port in Ying-kou, including one maize loading berth, and accompanying
ship loaders, storage facilities, unloading facilities and other site
infrastructure.
(c) Construction, rehabilitation and equipping of loading and
unloading and storage facilities and other site infrastructure at
about 60 intermediate grain depots and about 280 primary depots in
the Northeast Corridor.
(d) Acquisition and putting into operation of about 1,400
newly designed rail wagons and about 840 bulk trucks for transport
of grain.
2.    Expanding and increasing the efficiency of grain flows through
the Yangtze River grain corridor (comprised of those portions of
Jiangsu, Anhui, Jiangxi, Hubei and Hunan Provinces which are readily
accessible by water) by:


﻿13
(a) Upgrading and equipping of the grain terminal at Zhang-
j iagang port in Jiangsu Province, including one berth, and accompany-
ing storage facilities, loading and unloading equipment and facili-
ties and other site infrastructure.
(b) Upgrading and equipping of a grain terminal at Nantong
port in Jiangsu Province, including one berth, and accompanying
storage facilities, loading and unloading equipment and facilities
and other site infrastructure.
(c) Upgrading and equipping of grain berths, loading and
unloading equipment and facilities, handling and storage facilities
at Chenglingji, Wuhan, Wushiji and Tujishan upriver terminals.
(d) Construction, rehabilitation and equipping of loading and
unloading and storage facilities and other site infrastructure at
intermediate grain depots in the Yangtze River Corridor.
(e) Acquisition and putting into operation of about 10
specialized bulk grain vessels, about 38 newly designed rail wagons
and about 133 bulk trucks for transport of grain.
3.    Expanding and increasing the efficiency of grain flows through
the Southwest grain corridor (comprised of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region and Guizhou and Yunnan Provinces) by:
(a) Upgrading and equipping of the grain terminal at Fangcheng
port in Guangxi, and accompanying storage facilities, loading and
unloading equipment and facilities and other site infrastructure.
(b) Construction, rehabilitation and equipping of loading and
unloading and storage facilities and other site infrastructure at
about 11 grain depots in the Southwest Corridor.
(c) Acquisition and putting into operation of about 220 hopper
rail wagons and about 90 bulk trucks for transport of grain.
4.    Construction and equipping of a bulk grain transfer and storage
facility at the Beijing Central Depot to be connected to the bulk
wheat terminals in Tianjin and Qinhuangdao via a railway shuttle
service.


﻿14
Part B:    Development of Grain Market Services
1.    Developing forward contract markets and futures markets,
through provision of computer and telecommunication equipment,
training and consultants' services.
2.    Establishing and developing the National Grain Economic
Information Center under MDT, through provision of computer and
related equipment, training and consultants' services.
3.    Establishing and equipping training services and providing
training related to grain distribution and marketing at the China
Training Center for Grain Distribution Management in Nanjing and the
Physical Distribution Training and Research Center in Zhengzhou,
through provision of equipment, training and consultants' services.
4.    Developing management training programs for managers and other
project-related staff in the World Bank Project Office established
in connection with the Project to provide training in project,
engineering and financial management and personnel matters.
T  P  i              * t         *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the ori-
ginal bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction fac-
tors acceptable to the Association and the Bank, one to be applied
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local cur-
rency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
2.    Bidders for all contracts for works in excess of $2,000,000
shall be prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guide-
lines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or
more.
Part B:    Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in China may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:    Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿16
Part D:    Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or less per
contract up to an aggregate limit of $25,000,000 may be carried out
by force account or under contracts awarded on the basis of compari-
son of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligi-
ble under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Association and the Bank.
2.    Works for rail sidings and utility construction estimated to
cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or less per contract up to an
aggregate limit of $35,000,000 may be carried out by the regional
railway and utility entities concerned.
3.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $15,300,000, and civil works involving smaller
structures (such as silos, warehouses, buildings and wharves) esti-
mated to cost $2,000,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
limit of $251,100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
4.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $11,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association and the Bank.
Part E:     r tew by the Association and the Bank of Procurement
Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost
the equivalent of more than $2,000,000 or for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of more than $200,000, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where


﻿17
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Associa-
tion prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the preced-
ing paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished
to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant
to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not
apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit
Account and the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Association and the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Exe-
cuting Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants
Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Associa-
tion review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection proce-
dures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Associa-
tion and Bank review shall not apply to the terms of reference for


﻿18
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reasonably
determined by the Association and the Bank and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:    Grain Corridor Improvements
1.    The Borrower shall onlend a portion of the proceeds of the
Credit and of the Loan corresponding to the respective Parts of the
Project on the following principal terms and conditions:
(a) repayment within 15 years, including five years' of grace;
(b) interest to be paid at not less than the rate specified
in Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement or such lesser rate
as the Association and the Bank may agree in respect of
any Grain Terminal Company or Project Province relending
to any other entity implementing any part of the Project
with funds provided under this Agreement or the Loan
Agreement and which is in transition to commercial opera-
tions or is newly established, taking into account market
rates and capacity to repay;
(c) commitment charges to be paid at the rate of 0.75% per
annum; and
(d) on terms that the foreign exchange risk shall be borne by
the Grain Terminal Company or Project Province.
2.    To this end, and to better ensure the implementation of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause M0F and MDT to enter into a subsi-
diary loan and implementation agreement with each Grain Terminal
Company and a project implementation agreement with each Project
Province, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and
the Bank, under which:
(a) each Grain Terminal Company and each Project Province
shall carry out its respective parts of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate commercial, engineering and administrative
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for such portion of the Project;
(b) the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan for the
respective parts of the Project shall be made available
to each Grain Terminal Company and each Project Province


﻿20
on the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph A.1 of
this Schedule; and
(c) For the Project Implementation Agreements:
(i)   each Project Province shall establish and maintain
the provincial level project management office as
set out in paragraph C.2 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and
(ii) Jiangsu Province shall enter into agreements with
Nantong Grain Storage and Transport Company and
with Zhangjiagang River and Ocean Cereals and Oils
Transit Company, and Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous
Region shall enter into an agreement with Fangcheng
Grain Storage and Transport Company to provide for
the implementation of the up-grading and equipping
of the grain terminals at Nantong port, Zhangjia-
gang port and Fangcheng port, respectively, as
contemplated by paragraph A.2 (a) and A.3 (b) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to provide for the
repayment of any proceeds of the Credit or Loan
which are re-lent to them by those Project Pro-
vinces.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that the railway connector spur
between Xigongtun and Dayao Bay Port shall be completed by December
31, 1994.
4.    The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) newly designed, system compatible rail wagons, in an
adequate number acceptable to the Association and the Bank, shall be
acquired by June 30, 1998 in addition to those acquired under Part
A of the Project; and
(b) MDT shall enter into an agreement on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association and the Bank with the Borrower's
Ministry of Railways for the maintenance of all such wagons.
5.    The Borrower shall ensure that non-state enterprises shall have
full access to the facilities to be established and developed under
the Project, at not more than the standard published fees (which
shall be established without discrimination and without preference
or priority to state enterprises).


﻿21
Part B:    Grain Market Services
1.    The Borrower shall ensure that all training under Part B of the
Project shall be carried out in accordance with programs agreed with
the Association and the Bank.
2.    The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association and
the Bank, for comment, plans for developing the Shanghai Cereal and
Oils Exchange Market by December 31, 1993, and another commodities
market (to be agreed with the Association and the Bank) by June 30,
1994, into forward contract markets and futures markets under Part
B.1 of the Project, including legislative requirements, and after
each such date, shall cause the relevant plans to be implemented,
taking into account the comments of the Association and the Bank.
3.    The Borrower shall ensure that a China Training Center for
Grain Distribution Management and a Physical Distribution Research
Center are established and maintained as, distinct faculties or
departments or institutes at Nanjing College of Foodgrain Economics
and Zhengzhou Grain College, respectively, by December 31, 1994.
Part C:    Overall Proiect Implementation
1.    The Borrower shall maintain:
(a) the interministerial leading group for the Project,
chaired by the State Planning Commission, to provide coordination
among the national and provincial government agencies responsible for
implementation; and
(b) the MDT leading group for the Project, to formulate poli-
cies and plans related to the Project and oversee their implementa-
tion, both with composition, functions and responsibilities accept-
able to the Association and the Bank.
2.    The Borrower shall ensure that the World Bank Project Office
in MDT and the Project Management Offices in the Project Provinces
shall be maintained with functions and responsibilities acceptable
to the Association and the Bank, and shall be staffed by qualified
staff in adequate numbers and shall also appoint a training coordi-
nator and a training unit within the World Bank Project Office to
establish and implement the training programs referred to in para-
graph 4 of Part B of Schedule 2.
3.    The Borrower shall cause MDT, by November 30 in each year, to
prepare and furnish to the Association and the Bank a detailed annual


﻿22
budget and work plan acceptable to the Association and the Bank, for
implementation of the Project during the next calendar year, such
plans to include:
(a) training programs consistent with paragraph B.1 of this
Schedule; and
(b) those actions recommended in the Environmental Assessment
Report prepared by the Borrower, dated November, 1992, which will be
carried out in that year.
4.    The Borrower shall undertake with the Association and the Bank
a review of the progress and prospects for the implementation of the
Project and the Grain Marketing Reform Program referred to in Recital
(D) of the Preamble to this Agreement, no later than June 30, 1996.
5.    Without limitation upon the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, and shall cause
each Grain Terminal Company, each Project Province, and any other
agency implementing a portion of the Project to employ international
technical advisors in sufficient numbers, and with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Association and
the Bank, as necessary to ensure that the implementation of the
Project meets applicable international engineering standards for
design, construction, supervision and commissioning.
6.    The Borrower shall implement a reform of the tariff structures
for ports, railways and grain handling and storage facilities to make
tariffs adequate to permit each of the Grain Terminal Companies and
the grain terminal entities in Nantong, Fangcheng and Zhangjiagang
to meet its annual operations and maintenance expenditures and its
loan and other financial obligations.
Part D:    Environment and Resettlement
1.    The Borrower shall ensure that:
(a) all activities under the Project comply with environmental
standards and guidelines satisfactory to the Association and the
Bank;
(b) all necessary measures are taken to minimize and to miti-
gate any adverse environmental impact caused by the construction and
other activities under the Project, in a manner satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank; and


﻿23
(c) the actions recommended in the Environmental Assessment
Report are carried out by the times specified therein or in the
calendar year in which they are planned to be carried out as speci-
fied in an annual budget and work plan furnished under paragraph 3
of Part C of Schedule 4.
2.    The Borrower shall ensure that any persons who are involuntari-
ly resettled by the Project are provided with appropriate compensa-
tion for assets, logistical support for moving, and adequate reloca-
tion grants as agreed with the Association and the Bank.
Part E:    Enterprise Reform
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association and
the Bank by no later than December 31, 1994 a program for grain
enterprise reform acceptable to the Association and the Bank, and
thereafter shall commence implementing these reforms by no later than
June 30, 1995.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit or the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development
Credit Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account or the
Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit
or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Autho-
rized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account or the Loan Accou%.t and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)  (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account at such
intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the


﻿25
documents and other evidence required pursuant to
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account or the Loan
Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as
shall have been shown by said documents and other
evidence to have been paid out of the Special
Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account or the Loan Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement or from the Loan Account in accordance
with the provisions of Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions applicable thereto; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the
Loan allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association or the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the respective
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account and the Loan Account
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit and the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories for the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the


﻿26
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upoT1 notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association or the Bank)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association or the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association or the Bank all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association or the Bank made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to
the Credit Account or the Loan Account, as the case may be, for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Development Credit Agreement or the Loan
Agreement, including the General Conditions applicable thereto.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


