4-,I           W-zl D  D   l 4
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY                                         Repon No. 8073-BX
ReEPort No. 8073-.B ?ype: (SAR)
%OIROLO, L/ X31820 f / LAIAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
RONDONIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 27, 1992
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a reslticted disrbution ad may be used by recipkelt   only in the perormance of
their offid   duties. Its contents msy Ot othendse be disclosed wkbout Wox4 Bask muthoizalou.



CURAENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of June 30, 1991)1/
Currency Unit  =   Cruzeiro (Cr$)
Cr$306.69      =   US$1.00
Cr$1.00             US$0.0036
Cr$l million        US$3,260
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEAR
State of Rond6nia   =   January 1 to December 31
Project                   January 1 to December 31
1/ Post-appraisal mission.



FOR OMFCL USE ONLY
GOfSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BERON         Banco do Estado de Rond8nia
(State Bank of RondOniaj
DER-RO        Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Rond8nia
(RondOnia Highway Department)
CASRG         Companhia de Aguas e Esgotos de Rond8nia
(Water Supply and Sewerage Company of Rond8nia)
CAGERO        Companhia de Armazens Gerais de Rond8nia
(Rond8nia Storage Company)
CEPLAC        Comisslo Executiva do Plano da Lavoura Cacaueira
(Executive Committee for the Cocoa Development Plan)
CPAF/EMBRAPA Centro de Pesquisas Agro-Florestais da EMBRAPA
(Agro-Forestry Research Center of EMBRAPA)
DPU           Departamento do Patrim8nio da Uniao
(Property Department of the Union of the Borrower)
DTN           Departamento do Tesouro Nacional
(Department of the National Treasury, Federal Ministry of
Economy, Finance and Planning)
PI4ATER-RO    Empresa de AssistAncia Tecnica e Extenslo Rural de Rondonia
(Rond8nia State Technical Assistance a-id Rural Extension
company)
ENBRAPA       Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecu&ria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Enterprise)
ENARO         Empresa de NavegagQo de Rond8nia
(Rond8nia Water Transport Company)
EUNAI         Fundaq&o Nacional do fndio
(National Indian Foundation)
FUNDAGRO      Fundo Agrario
(Rond8nia State Agricultural Credit Fund)
IBAM          Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais
Renov&veis
(Brazilian Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural
Resources)
ICB           Licitaglo International
(International Competitive Bidding)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INCRA         Instituto Nacional de Coloniza,Ao e Reforma Agraria
(National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
ITERON        Instituto de Terras de Rond8nia
(Rond8nia State Land Institute)
LCB           LicitagPo Local
(Local Competitive Bidding)
NUAR          NGcleo Urbano de Ap6io Rural
(Rural Service Center)
PCU           Unidade de CoordenaqAo do Projeto
(Project Coordination Unit)
PLANAFLORO    Plano Agropecuario e Florestal de Rond8nia
(RordOnia State Agricultural and Forestry Plan)
PMF           Policia Militar Florestal
(Forest Military Police)
POLONOROESTE  Programa Integrado de Desenvolvimento do Noroeste do Brasil
(Integrated Development Program for Northwest Brazil)
SDR-PR        Secretaria  e Desenvolvimento Regional da Presidencia da
Repdblica
(Secretariat of Regional Development of the Borrower's
Presidency)
SEAGRI-RO     Secretaria de Estado da Agricultura e Abastecimento
(Rond6nia State Secretariat of Agriculture and Supply)
SEDAM-RO      Secretaria de Estado de Desenvolvimento Ambiental
(Rond8nia State Secretariat of Environmental Development)
SEDUC-RO      Secretaria de Estado da EducaqAo
(RondOnia State Secretariat of Education)
SZOSP         Secretaria de Estado de Obras e Servigos PGblicos
(Rond8nia State Secretariat of Works and Public Services)
SEPLAN-RO     Secretaria de Estado de Plaaejamento e Coordenag&o Geral
(RondOnia State Secretariat of Planning and Coordination)
SESAU-RO      Secretaria de Estado da Sadde
(Rond6nia State Secretariat of Health)



BRAZXL
ROND6NIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
I. LOAN ND PRBOJECT SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .       1
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR AND THE STATE OF ROND6NIA  . . . . . . . . . . 5
Agriculture in the National Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Agricultural Development Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Experience with Past Bank Lending . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
The State of Rond8nia ..................... . 7
Location and Naturai Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
History of Stace Occupation ................... . 7
Land Tenure and Agricultural Production . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
The Northwest Program - POLONOROESTE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Main Lessons Learned under PCILONOROESTE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
III.  THE  PROJECT  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 15
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Environmental Policy Reform Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Agro-ecological Zoning   ..................... . 17
Project Components  . . . . . .............. .                   18
A.  Environmental Conservation. Manacement and Protection . . . . 'g
Land Zoning, Mapping and Regularization .     .  .  . . . . . . . . ;9
Establishment and Management of Conservation Units  . . . . . 20
Environmental Protection  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Forest Management .s.t.a.n.g.n.t. .  .  .  .  .   . ......  .   . 21
Extractive Reserves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Support to Amerindian Communities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Institutional Strengthening, Studies and Technical
Assistance  ....  .  .  .   . . . . .  .  .  .   ....  .  .  .  .   . 23
The project is based on the findings of a Bank appraieal mission which visited
Brazil from July 26 to August 23, 1989. The mission comprised Messrs.
L. Coirolo (Mission Leader, Agricultural Economist), M. Dourojeanni
(Forester/Environmentalist), J. McKenna (Resource Planning Spacialist),
J. Barbosa (Land Titling Specialist), E. Los (Agriculturalist, Consultant),
E. Velez-Koppel (Credit and Marketirg Specialist, Consultant), V. Bellia
(Transport Specialist, Consultant), Silbene Almeida (Indigenist, Consultant),
D. Gross (Anthropologist, Consultant), M. Leonel and Ms. B. Mindlin
(Consultants from the Brazilian Institute of Anthropology and Environment-
NGO), Mmes. S. GonzAlez-Flavell (Lawyer) and A. Breidenbach (Secretary).
A post-appraisal mission took place from June 15 to July 7, 1991.



B.  Bgro-Forestrv DeveloQment . .      . .  . . . . . . .        24
Agro-Forestry Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Rural Extension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Rural  Credit    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 26
Input Supply  . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
C.  Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services  . . . . . . . . . 27
Health  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  28
Education . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Water Supply .  ...*  ...      ...      ...     .. 28
Road and River Transport  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
D.  Proiect Administration  ............ . . . . .             . 29
Project Organization and Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Institutional Strengthening   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Coordination Arrangements      .      .      ....... . 31
Implementation Arrangements ................ . 32
Annual Plans and Budgets  .    ...  ..... 32
Project Monitoring and Environmental Impact Assessment  . . 32
Accounts and Auditing .....                               34
Project Costs. .. ...   35
Finan-ing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Procurement   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  36
Disbursements and Special Account . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Project Benefits and Justification  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Economic and Financial Benefits   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Fiscal Impact.. ...  39
Project Risks .....                                         39
IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . . . 42
ANNEXES:
Annex l  Environmental Policy Reforms and Agro-Ecological Zoning . . . .  46
Table 1.1 Matrix of Main Environmental Policy Issues, Measures
and Actions ....  .   ......  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  51
Annex 2: En-ironmental Conservation and Forest Management  .     . . . . . .  53
Table 2.1 LANDSAT Surveys of Forest Clearing in the Brazilian
Amazon  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    57
Table 2.2 Federal, State and Municipal Conservation Units . . .  58
Table 2.3 National and State Forests and Extractive Reserves  .  59
Annex 3: Valuation of Forest Destruction in Rond8nia . . . . . . . . . .  60
Annex*4: Forest Fallow Management Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  64
Table 4.1 Rate of Return Calculations of Fallow Enrichment  . .  66



-iii-
Page
Anex 5_: Support to Amerindian Communities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  68
Table 5.1. Indigenous Areas Already Demarcated and Identified
for Demarcation in Rond8nia . . . . . . . . . . . .  71
Table 5.2 Indigenous Areas Under Investigation for Possible
Demarcation and Protection  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  72
Annex £: Project Costs, Financing Plan and Disbursements . . . . . . . .  73
Table 6.1 Annual Phasing of Project Costs by Component  . . . .  73
Table 6.2 Summary Accounts by Project Component Actions . . . .  74
Table 6.3 Estimated Sch%iule of Disbursements . . . . . . . . .  75
Table 6.4 Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  76
Table 6.5 Allocation of Loan Proceeds . . . . . . . . . . . . .  77
Annex 7: Project Implementation Arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  78
Table 7.1 List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies  . . . .  78
Table 7.2 Project Physical Targets and Schedule of
Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  79
Chart 7.1 Project Coordination and Management Chart . . . . . .  84
Annex 9: Working Papers and Other Documents Available in Project Files .  85
MAP: IBRD 21926R



BRAZIL
ROND8NIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. Loan and Proiect Summ.arv
Borrower:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Executinq           Secretariat of Regional Development, Presidency of the
Agencv:             Republic/Rond8nia State Secretariat of Planning
Amount:             US$167.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Repayable over 15 years, including 5 years of grace at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:      Some 5,000 to 6,000 Amerindians, 2,400 families of rubber
tappers and other forest dwellers, and 900 families of
fishermen and riverine inhabitants in Rond6nia would
benefit directly from the environmental conservation,
management and protection component of the project. A
further 52,000 low-income smallholder families, currently
residing in areas of the State which are suitable for
sustainable development from an agro-ecological
standpoint, would benefit directly from the agro-forestry
component. Much of the rural community in those same
areas would also benefit from improved socio-econom.c
infrastructure and services. Finally, both current and
future generations in Rond8nia would benefit from actions
taken now to arrest deforestation and degradation of the
State's natural resource base and biogenetic diversity.
Proiect Objectives The principal objective of the proposed project would be
and DescriDtiont   to implement an improved approach to natural resource
management, conservation and development in the State of
Rond8nia, which lies within the environmentally fragile
Amazon Basin. The project would assist the Government tot
(a) inst"itute a series of changes in policies,
regulations, and investment programs, so as to provide a
coherent incentive framework for the sustainable
development of Rond8nia; (b) conserve the rich
biodiversity of the State, while creating the basis for
the sustainable utilization of its renewable natural
resources for the direct economic benefit of the local
population; (c) protect and enforce the borders of all
conservation units, Amerindian reserves, public forests
and extractive reserves, and control and prevent illegal
deforestation, wood transport and forest fires;
(d) develop integrated farming systems in areas suitable
for permanent agriculture and agro-forestr-, and systema
for sustainable forest management and exttdction of non-
wood forest products in other areas which should remain



under natural forest covers (e) support priority
investments in socio-economic infrastructure and services
to implement the State5 s agro-ecological zoning; and
(f) consolidate the technical operational capacity of
state institutions, particularly those responsible for
agriculture, forestry support services, and the protection
and management of forests and Amerindian reserves.  The
project, to b6 implemented over a five-year period, would
support priority env5.ronmental conservation, management
and enforcement activities; an agro-forestry development
program; socio-economic infrastructure and services; and
project administration, monitoring and evaluation, and
twchnical assistance. Consolidazion of agricultural
development activities and infrastructure investments will
take place only in areas already deforested. No new
oettlements or new roads will be financed under the
project.
Proiect Benefits:  The main impact of the project would be a significant
reduction in the rate of destruction of Rond8nia's
remaining natural rain forest. Techniques for quantifying
environmental benefits are still quite rudimentary, but it
is conservatively estimated that the present economic
value of the foregone losses of wood (i.e., the value of
the forest not destroyed) would be about US$420 million
over a ten-year period. In addition, two pilot schemes in
natural forest management would generate net revenues for
the State, as would agro-forest-?y activities in areas with
sustainable agricultural potential. Other important
project benefits would include poverty alleviation and
improveŽment of the health and well-being of rural
beneficiaries, protection of Araerindian lands, prevention
of soil depletion and erosion, and preservation of natural
ecosystems and biodiversity.
Project Risks:      In the past, inadequate knowledge of the natural resource
capabilities of Rcnd8nia resulted in the occupation of
lands with little or no sustainable develrpment potential,
accompanied by rapid deforestation and resource depletion.
However, given current technical knowledge, particularly
the availability of agro-ecological zoning, the prospects
for achieving sustainable agricultur,l and extractive
development, and environmental preservation, are much
better today than in the past. The various environmental
policy and regulatory reforms which the Government has
already undertaken in preparation for this project should
also help to improve the economic and financial incentives
framework which, in the past, often encouraged occupation
and deforestation of unsuitable areas. Project activ'>ies
designed to intensify land use in suitable areas and to
develop sustainable forrns of extractive production in
areas which should remain under forest cover would also



-3-
help to reduce the pressure on the forests by amall,
shifting cultivators. In addition, the project would
strengthen the capacity of key State agencies to enforce
State environmental policies and legislation and to
protect the borders of conservation units and reservee.
While the environmental reforms adopted as the outset of
the project address the most important known causes of
natural resource degradation ia Ronddnia, there is always
a risk that unforeseeable factors (e.g., weather or
ecor.omic problems in other parts of Brazil which might
prompt additional migration to Rond8nia), or delays,in the
implementation of crucial decisions and activities, could
undermine the project strategy. For that reason,
intensive M&E efforts, with participation of NGOs, would
be put in place from the start of the project, to identify
problems as they arise and recommend corrective action, as
necessary. Finally, although the project includes
significant technical assistance and trsinina to support
Rond8nia's relattvely young institutions, the current
fiscal situation in Brazil could undermine the future
development of these entities. Therefore, during
negotiations the Government presented satisfactory plans
for dealing with restrictions on staff recruitment and
salary levels, and the agreements reached would be
monitored closely.



ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Local            Foreinn           Total
(Ulf Million)
Estimatfd Prolect Costs
A. Environmental CMnservation,
61%nagement gnd Protection                                 41.2             ILI.t
Land Zoning, Napping & Regularization                  9.4             7.3              16.7
Cunservation Units                                     5.7             1.3               7.0
Environmental Protection                               9.8             2.7              12.5
Forest Management                                      5.6             1.0               6.6
Extractive Reserves                                    1.1             0.5               3.6
Support to Amerindian Communities                      2.9             0.6               3.5
Inst. Strengthening, T.A. & Studies                   4.7              2.7               7.4
S. Aero-forestry Ulevelopment                                 64.7              7.1              71I_
Agro-forestry Research                                 9.1             2.1              11.2
Rural Extension                                       29.6             4.9              34.5
Rural Credit                                          25.1             0.0              25.1
Input Supply                                           0.9             0.1               1.0
C. Socio-economiC Infrastructure
& Services                                                 46t9             14.9              61.8
Health                                                 5.4             1.8               7.2
Education                                              3.9             0.8               4.7
Road & River Transport                                36.4            11.9              48.3
Water Supply                                           1.2             0.4               1.6
D. ProJect Adcinistration. Monito.ing
and Evaluation. Technical Assistance                        5.4              4.6              1.
Total Baseline Costs                                 158.2            42.?              200.9
-Physical contingencies                                3.8             1.3                5.1
-Price contingencies                                  18.5             4.4               22.9
Total Protect Costs                                  180.5            48.4              228.9
FinancIng Plan
Rondonia State Goverrment                             30.9               -              30.91/
Federal Government                                   31.0                -              31.01/
IBRD                                                118.6             48.4              167.0
Total                                                180.5            48.4              228.9
Estimated Disbursements
Bank FY:         1992              1223              1994             1995              1996              1997
(in USS million)
Annual           11.0 Z/           39.0  f           37.0              36.0              30.0              14.0
Cumulative        1.0              50.0              87.0             123.0             153.0             167.0
Rate of Return:   N.A.
ega: IBRO No. 21926R
I/ including USS5.7 million in local taxes.
g/ Including initial deposit of US$11.0 million into the Speciat Account.
3/ Including disbursements of US$15.0 million of retroactive financing.



It.  THE AGRICULTURAL_SECTOR .AD THE STATE .QE  RONONIA
iculture in the Nrtiona. EconomY
2.01        Throughout the postwar peziod, until the 1980s, the Brazilian
economy grew at a high average annual rate of around 9%. The agricultural
sector also performed w: 1., achieving an average annual growth rate of about
4% over the same period, although the output of both the industrial and
service sectors increased at much faster rates. As a result, agriculture's
share of total GDP declined from about 25% in 1950 to 10% in 1980.
2.02        Agricultural development prior to 1980 was led by the growth of
non-traditional exports (mainly soybeans and citrus). Production increases
came almost entirely from expansion into new lands as opposed to increases in
yields. Growth was particularly dynamic in the expanding frontier stat3s of
the Center-West (Goias and Mato Grosso do Sul) and parts of Minas Gerais.
2.03        In the early 1980s, the economy slowed down, reflecting declining
industrial production and relative stagnation in agriculture and expansion of
the agricultural frontier came to a virtual halt with the exce;tion of certain
areas in the North. In the last few years, agricultural growth has fluctuated
as a result of agricultural policy changes, the macroeconomic conditions in
the country, and the weather. Agriculture grew at only 3% p.a. over the 1980s
- about the same rate of growth as the entire economy - but its share of total
GDP fell to 9% by 1989. The sources of growth appear to be charnging. With
the recent introduction cf new varieties, made possible by technological
advances in agricultural research and increased investment in irrigation in
some areas, yields of traditional export crops (cotton, tobacco and coffee)
and many food crops (rice, maize and wheat) have increased significantly
Also, the introduction of soybeans as a crop in the 1970s has now resulted in
a mature and major industry.
Agricultural Development Policy
2.04        Government policies have had a majic. impact on the performance of
the agricultural sector. Brazil's decision in the postwar era to embark on an
import substitution-led industrialization strategy was pursued through a
variety of measures, including an overvalued currency, restrictive trade
policies, and from time to time, outrignt bans and quotas on agricultural
exports. The effect was to implicitly tax agriculture. Partially to
compensate for this, subsidized rural credit was introduced, but this only
created further distortions and benefitted mainly larger producers. Recently,
the Government has taken major measures to change many of these policies. The
Bank has supported these reforms under the Credit and Marketing Reform Project
(Loan 2727-BR).  With respect to rural credit, the Government is now moving in
the direction of reducing the availability of official (subsidized) credit and
relving on private finance at market interest rates. A Bank loan for the
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2971-BR) is aimed at assisting the
Government to achieve this objective. In many other aspects, the Government
is phasing out its intervention in agr_culture.



-6-
2.05        While the Government policy agenda during the 1980s has been
dominated by macroeconomic stabilization concerns, farmers, faced with the
problems of increasing production costs and falling commodity prices, have
begun to seek more cost-effective technologies and to intensify the use of
existing farm land and rural infrastructure. This is already evident in the
country's major agricultural areas in the South and Southeast. There is
growing interest in irrigation, soil conservation, environmental protection,
livestock disease control, more efficient marketing and storage, and more
widespread application of the results of agricultural research. Evidence also
indicates that the supply of uncla'med agricultural land with good economic
potential is rapidly diminishing. This fact, coupled with the Government
initiatives to withdraw some of the various fiscal incentives that have helped
to fuel expansion into areas which are less suitable from an agro-ecological
standpoint, suggests that the growth of the land frontier may be coming to a
close. Instead, future agricultural development will come increasingly from
more land-intensive production methods.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
2.06        As of December 31, 1991, the Bank had made 56 loans, totalling
US$4,895.6 million (net of cancellations), for agricultural and rural
development in Brazil. These loans include: one agricultural credit and
export loan for US$303 million; one agricultural credit loan for US$300
million; two supplemental loans for US$30.3 million under the 19F3 Special
Action Program for Brazil; four loans for US$785.8 million for agro-
industries; three for US$111.5 million for livestock, including an animal
disease control project of US$51 million; one for US$18.2 million for grain
storage; three for US$147.0 million for agricultural research; two for US$255
million for agricultural extension; one for US$100 million for land tenure
improvements; one for US$495 million for credit and marketing reform; one for
US$48.5 million for forestry development; one for US$195 million for the
irrigation subsector; and 35, totalling US$2,106.3 million, for various
settlement, irrigation, land management and rural development projects in the
Northeast, Minas Gerais (the Southeast), Paran& (the South), and the North and
Northwest.
2.07        With regard to the Northwest Region, the POLONOROESTE Program
(paras. 2.18-2.26) was financed by five Bank loans, including three which
supported primarily the agricultural, rural development and environmental
objectives of the Program. The Agricultural Development and Environmental
Protection Project, known as Northwest I (Loan 2060-BR, of US$67.0 million,
approved in 1981), was designed to upgrade existing agricultural settlements
in central Rond8nia. The Agricultural Development and Environmental
Protection Project-Northwest II (Loan 2116-BR, of US$26.4 million, approved in
1982) financed similar activities in Mato Grosso. The New Settlements
Project-Northwest III (Loan 2353-BR, of US$65.2 million, approved in 1983)
supported colonization of unoccupied lands in Rond8nia. In addition, a
Northwest Health Project (Loan 2061-BR, of US$13.0 million, approved in 1981)
was designed to improve and maintain health conditions in the settlement areas
of RondOnia and Nato Grosso, and a Northwest Highway Project (Loan 2062-BR, of
US$240.0 million, approved in 1981) helped to finance the paving of Federal
highway BR-364 between Cuiabg and Porto Velho and the construction of feeder



roads to that highway. In 1983, under the Special Action Program (S.AP) for
Brazil, the Bank also approved US$22.8 million of supplemental financing for
the Northwest I Project. Project Completion Report" have been prepared for
all but the last agricultural project (Loan 2353-l , for which the loan will
close on March 31, 1992. Experience under the agrscultural operations in
Rond8nia is discussed in paras. 2.18 - 2.2o below.
The State of Rond8nia
2.08        Location and Natural Resourcoe.  Rond8n'.a is located between
latitudes 80 and 130 South in the southeastern part of the Brazilian Amazon
Basin (Map IBRD 21926R), covering about 5% of that region, or about 2.8% of
the country. The climate is hot and humid, with temperatures averaging
between 230 C and 260 C. Annual rainfrel of between 1,500 mm in the south to
2,700 mm in the north of the State is concentrated between September and
April. Rond8nia has abundant water resources and includes parts of the basins
of several major tributaries to the Amazon River. The two most important
navigable river systems are the Madeira and Mamor6-Guapor6, although most of
the State is also crisscrossed by a series of smaller rivers which provide at
least partial access during most of the year.
2.09        The total land area of RondOnia is about 24.3 million ha, of which
2.6 million ha (11%) are good eutrophic podsols that present no major barrier
to annual or perennial crop production. Another 6.4 million ha (26%) are
soils of more moderate fertility, si'itable only for perennial cropping and
agro-forestry. Almost all of these moderate to better soils are located in
central and southeastern Rond8nia, corresponding to most of Zones 1 and 2 of
the State's agro-ecological zoning (para. 3.06 and Map IBRD 21926R). The
remaining 15.3 million ha (63%) are soils of extremely low fertility, which
are not suitable for any form of agriculture and should therefore be
maintained under permanent forest cover.
2.10        Satellite imagery for the Brazilian Amazon Basin shows that the
total area of cleared forest increased from about 3 million ha in 1975 to
almost 60 million ha in 1988 (i.e., from less than 1% to nearly one-sixth of
the tropical forest, Annex 2). Deforestation has been more heavily
concentrated in some Amazonian States and territories than others. Rondonia,
which is only the sixth largest (of nine such States) in terms of total land
area, has the highest percentage of deforested area. Reflecting the opening
of the State's agricultural frontier, especially during the past decade (para.
2.13), forest cover in Rond8nia has shrunk rapidly from over 99% of the total
State area in 1975 to about 76% in 1988. Of the approximately 5.8 million ha
which have been deforested, about half are estimated to have reverted to
forest fallow/secondary growth.
2.11        History of State Occupation.  Although official interest in the
Amazon Basin dates from the colonial period, the regiun remained only sparsely
populated by native Amerindian tribes and was relatively insignificant in
economic terms until the last quarter of the nineteenth century, when it began
a 40-year period (roughly 1870-1912) of rapid economic growth based on a near-
monopoly position in the world market for wild rubber. The very high profits
generated by this product, which was essential to the growing demands of North



- 8 -
American and European industry, prompted the British to establish plantations
ia their Asian colonies, where rubber could be produced at only cne-fourth the
coat incurred by Brazilian producers. When the Asian plantation-grown rubber
started entering world markets in a major way in late 1910, the Amazon's turn-
of-the-century rubber boom ended: by 1934, the region's share of the world
rubber market had fallen to 1%, and Amaz8nia entered into a long period of
economic and demographic stagnation.
2.12        After 1964, the Amazon once again gained public attention, as the
new Government firmly committed itself to development and occupation of the
region and integration of the Amazon with the rest of Brazil. Included among
the plans were an ambitious road-building program, agricultural colonization
schemes, and fiscal incentives for attracting new industrial and agricultural
enterprises. A regional development agency and regional development bank were
created to coordinate implementation. However, there was little detailed
knowledge of the region's development potential upon which to base the design
of an economic development strategy responsive to the unique natural and human
environments of Amazonia.
2.13        Despite a large amount of human and financial resources, the
accomplishments of the ensuing road-building and directed settlement programs
were extremely mcdest. Nonetheless, as land became increasingly scarce in the
more traditional areas of southern Brazil and prolonged droughts struck the
Northeast, the trickle of migrants to Rondonia in the early 1970s soon reached
uncontrollable proportions. By 1977, the National Inrti' ce for Colonization
and Agrarian Reform (INCRA) had settled about 28,000 families in Rond8nia, but
at least 30,000 additional families had joined the marginal population of the
newly created urban areas waiting for land. Others became sharecroppers on
the land of established colonists or staked out claims on the fringes of
official projects, on Indian reservations and in forest reserves. The
situation in Rond8nia worsened in the late 1970s, as the ever-increasing flow
of land-seeking migrants from other parts of Brazil and budgetary constraints
nearly paralyzed INCRA.
2.14        Accelerated migration to RondOnia caused the State's population to
grow from 113,000 in 1970 to 491,000 inhabitants in 1980, and to 905,000 in
1985 (i.e., average yearly rate increases of 16% and 13%, respectively, for
the 1970-80 and 1980-85 periods). By 1988, the State's population had reached
an estimated 1.4 million inhabitants. Most of the rural population is
concentrated in central Rond8nia, coinciding with the initial official
settlement schemes and mainly in the areas of best soils. Urban growth in
Rond8nia has also been extremely rapid because of the limited capacity for
sustained absorption of migrants looking for agricultural land, and the
present population is now almost evenly divided between urban and rural areas.
2.15        The Amerindian population of Rondonia, which has declined
considerably since colonial times, is now officially estimated to include
about 4,400 people in 12 reserves that have already been demarcated and
another 500 inhabitants of five reserves to be demarcated during the next five
yeare (Annex 5). The aggregate area covered by these 17 reserves is about 5.2
million ha. In addition, various other Indian groups have been identified,
which are either uncontacted or which maintain only sporadic contact with



- 9 -
government agencies. The total population of these uncontacted groups is not
known, but could range from 1,000 to 2,000.
2.16        Land Tenure and Aaricultural Production.  The land tenure
situation in Rond8nia is complex and clearly reflects the increased migration
to the State over the last 15 to 20 years. In 1950, the land cadastre
identified around 500 farms occupying an aggregate of about 700,000 ha. By
1970, this had grown to around 7,000 farms and 1.6 million ha. However,
following the official colonization schemes which were launched in central
Rond8nia during the 1970. and early 1980s, the number of farms increased
sharply to around 50,000 by 1980 and to 81,000 by 1985, representing a total
occupied area of about 6 million ha. The remainder of the State
(approximately 18 million ha) includes public lands; foreat, ecological or
Amerindian reserves; areas set aside for future colonization schemes; and
lands which have been precariously occupied by a small number of farmers
without officially recognized titles or land rights.
2.17        Agriculture is the dominant productive sector in Rond8nia,
accounting for about 30% of the State's GDP and employing 54% of the labor
force. Major products include crops, cattle and extractive products. The
area planted to crops increased 47% from 1980 to 1988, reflecting the
demographic explosion caused by accelerated migration from other parts of the
country. Yields of basic food crops in Rond8nia (rice, beans, corn and
cassava) are comparable to, or somewhat higher than, the averages for Brazil
overall, although for the most part these are not sustainable without high
levels of inputs or increased forest cutting. The area planted to perennials,
especially coffee and cocoa, has increased rapidly during the 1980s,
accounting for some 28% of crop land and 66% of crop income by 1988. Rond8nia
is now Brazil's fifth state in terms of coffee production, and the second
largest producer of cocoa. Cattle production tripled from 1980 to 1986.
Although cattle ranching has about the same annual value of production as
crops, it uses about ten times as much land per unit value generated and
occupies far lses labor, and the process of conversion of tropical forest to
pasture seriously degrades soil quality. Finally, native rubber, fish, nuts
and other extractive products up until now contribute only marginally to the
State's economy, but they could play a more significant role in the future
with better processing technologies and marketing arrangements. This will be
critical to Rond8nia's success in gradually reducing its dependence on less
suitable crops and livestock and arresting the rate of deforestation.
2.18        The Northwest Program - POLONOROESTE.  In 1980, in recognition of
the growing socio-economic problems caused by accelerating migration
(para. 2.13), the Brazilian Government launched a program of major investments
in the Northwest agricultural frontier areas of Rondonia and Mato Grosso.1
The Integrated Development Program for Northwest Brazil (POLONOROESTE) aimed
to absorb the human influx in an orderly and sustainable manner. The
centerpiece of the program was the completion and asphalting of the main
Federal highway into the Northwest Region (BR-364) between Cuiabd (capital of
1 The following discussion in paras. 2.18 to 2.22 relates to the strategy
and activities of the POLONOROESTE Program in Rondonia only.



- 10 -
Mato Grosso) and Porto Velho (capital of Rond8nia), coupled with the
construction of feeder road. to that highway. In contrast to earlier
Government initiatives, environmental considerations did play an important
part in the design of the Northwest Program. The strategy of POLONOROESTE was
to steer migrants away from the extensive areas which were ecologically
fragile and/or occupied by Amerindians. Non-exploitative systems of
agricultural and forest production were tc be promoted, with a view to
achieving permanent land occupation by the new settlers and reversing the
trend of felling the tropical forest and abandoning it to low-grade pasture or
scrub after only a few seasons of food cropping. Centra'l to the technical
strategy was the encouragement of small farmers to plant ecologically
acceptable tree crops, and central to the social strategy was the support for
permanent settlement on farms of adequate size to generate reasonable annual
incomes.
2.19        POLONOROESTE, financed by the Federal Government and the Bank
(para. 2.07), was coordinated by the Federal Government and executed by
Federal and State-level institutions. Implementation encountered many
technical, ir.stitutional and financial difficulties, particularly in the
initial phase of POLONOROESTE. Only pavement of the BR-364 highway proceeded
on schedule, while agricultural and social support services, and environmental
and Amerindian protection fell behind.  The program was widely criticized for
having only a marginal effect in reversing the destructive development
patterns set in motion in the 1970s: the pace of occupation accelerated and
deforestation increased.
2.20        A mid-term review of POLONOROESTE in 1984 highlighted the
differences between the assumptions under which the program was planned and
those under which it was being implemented, due mainly to circumstances
largely beyond the planners' controls the inadequacy and late disbursement of
counterpart funds because of the difficult fiscal situation in Brazil, the
virtual disappearance of investment credit needed to establish perennial
crops, overly centralized project management and ineffective integration of
participating agencies, and unexpectedly high migration of settlers, resulting
in unchecked deforestation and continued encroachment into unsuitable areas of
marginal soil fertility.
2.21        Also, many of the public policies, regulations and investment
programs which weze introduced to foster development of the Amazon Basin
during the past two decades actually encouraged the rapid depletion of the
region's natural resource base. The massive road-building programs to open up
the region for human settlement; government-sponsored colonization schemes
based on limited knowledge of the natural resource base; the weak
institutional capability of key Federal and State implementing agencies; land
registration and titling procedures which actively encouraged forest clearing;
inappropriate forestry protection practices and regulations; special fiscal
incentives and subsidized credit lines which encouraged unsustainable
livestock development; and inadequate technical and financial support f3r
smallholders to establish perennial crops and adopt sound environmental
techniques, rather than rely on traditional slash and burn cultivation
practices -- all played a major role in the deforestation process. The
resulting policy framework was one in which there were enormous contrasts



- 11 -
between the costs to the country of a non-sustainable form of development of
the Amazon and the often high (albeit short-lived) financial gains to the
private beneficiaries of these policies.
2.22        However, while POLONOROESTE certainly suffered from all of the
problems mentioned above, its well publicized weaknesses have frequently
masked sc.a of its significant accomplishments on the institutional, technical
and environmental fronts. Many of these are now beginning to bear fruit, and
in future years they will play a critical role in helping to preserve the
Amazon Region's valuable natural resource base. When POLONOROESTE was
launched, Rond8nia was still a Federal Territory, converting to Statehood only
in end-1981. Consequently, the new state's institutional base was quite weak.
Through POLONOROESTE, key institutions were created and/or strengthened (e.g.,
state agricultural research and extension services, a state forestry institute
and forest military police, a state secretariat for the environment and, most
recently, a state land institute).
2.23        Many of POLONOROESTE's physical targets have been met, including
some of the more difficult activities like protection and assistance to
Amerindian communities. In total, an estimated 11,000 Amerindians in both
Mato Grosso and Rondonia have benefitted from POLONOROESTE (v. an original
target of 6,000)T 63 Amerindian posts were financed (v. 26 planned); 38
infirmaries constructed and equipped (v. 28); 32 schools constructed and
equipped (v. 15); and 1,000 ha of crops developed (v. 650). Some 9,300 kms of
Amerindian reserve borders have been demarcated (v. 3,940 originally planned)
for the 11,000 Amerindian beneficiaries, covering about 10.3 million ha of
demarcated reserves, an area nearly half the size of the former West Germany.
Of this total, about 4.7 million ha, or 90% of all Indian lands identified by
FUNAI in Rond8nia, have been demarcated for the benefit of about 4,400
Amerindians, although some measures are still required to complete the process
of legal registration of several areas. Also, under POLONOROESTE four
conservation units were established covering 1.6 million ha, and a further
505,000 ha were set aside for two national forests, bringing conservation
units and forest reserves in RondBnia to 2.1 million ha (9% of the total area
of the State). Over the coming years, the State's capacity to enforce the
borders and prevent periodic invasions of the Amerindian reserves,
conservation units and forest reserves needs to be strengthened to bring the
overall level of protection to the desired standards.
2.24        The groundwork laid by the Northwest Program for major advances in
technical knowledge has been as important as its institutional and
environmental accomplishments. As the first set of POLONOROESTE operations
neared completion, in 1986 the Federal and Rondonia State Governments began
preparatory work on the proposed follow-up Rondonia Natural Resource
Management Project, with assistance from FAO through a special technical
cooperation project (TCP) project and the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP).  Efforts focussed on agro-ecological zoning, a tool which identifies
different areas according to potential land use, distinguishing those which
are capable of sustainable development from those which are without any known
long-term potential or which have special ecological (biological reserves) or
social (Amerindian lands) significance and therefore need to be protected. By
September 1987, a preliminary version of an agro-ecological zoning was



- 12 -
available at a scale of 1:1 million, with Rond8nia divided into six macro-
zones, and a basic development strategy was articulated for each of the zones.
The State then organized an International Seminar in Porto Velho to discuss
the results of the zoning. The recommendations were included in a second
version of the zoning that was then discussed in another International
Seminar, with participation of local NGOs, in Brasilia in May 1988. Later in
1988, the State adopted a Decree law to use agro-ecological zoning officially
in its development planning. The new State Government, which took office in
March 1991, has recently converted the 1988 decree into a state law.
2.25        Finally, evento during the last few years in Brazil suggest
encouraging changes in political awareness and a growing commitment to
confront environmental issues: (a) the new national Constitution adopted in
October 1988 incorporates one of the world's most advanced chapters on the
environment; (b) also in October 1988, the Government launched a special
program ("Nossa Natureza"), including emergency measures to protect the Amazon
region and other endangered ecosystems in the country; (c) the Government
suspended the special fiscal incentive programs which had directly promoted
livestock ranching and deforestation in the Amazon. In 1991, fiscal
incentives were officially restored; however, Congress explicitly barred
subsidies for ranching in areas designated as ineligible on environmental
grounds; (d) a new National Institute for the Environment (IBAMA) was created
in February 1989 to help coordinate environmental protection activities; and
(e) an Environmental Secretariat headed by an internationally prominent
environmentalist reporting directly to the President, was created in 1990.
Over the last 18 months the Government and a groups of industrialized nations
have been collaborating on the planning of a comprehensive Pilot .rogram to
Conserve the Brazilian Rainforest; the pilot program, to be financed by the
industrialized nations and administered by the Bank, is expected to begin
implementation shortly. In addition, the Government has prepared several
major investment programs for Bank financing, including the National
Environmental Project, now under implementation, tta proposed Rondonia Natural
Resource Management Project, a natural resource management project for the
State of Mato Grosso, and an industrial pollution control project, to name
only a few. At the same time, the Government has launched an Emergency
Environmental Protection Program to provide immediate protection to the Amazon
forest and to the most endangered national parks and conservation areas in the
country. The Bank provided partial assistance to this Emergency Program under
one of the Northwest operations (Loan 2060-BR). For the specific case of
Rond8nia, both State and Federal authorities have already started to introduce
a package of important policy and related regulatory reforms to ensure that
future direct and indirect Government interventions and private sector
iniitiatives are channelled only into sustainable and environmentally sound
economic activities, based on agro-ecological zoning (para. 3.06). A new
RondOnia State Constitution in October 1989 includes agro-ecological zoning as
one of the basic criteria for land occupation (i.e., land cannot be legally
occupied unless it is in accordance with the zoning regulations), and
complementary State legislation has also been approved (para. 2.24).



- 13 -
Main Lessons Learned under POLONOROESTE
2.26        The following are the main lessons learned in the course of
implementing the Bank-financed agricuisural projects under the POLONOROESTE
Program:
(a) Public investments in frontier areas characterized by fragile
natural resource conditions should be based on better technical
knowledge of the sustainable development potential than that which
was available at the beginning of these projects. Agro-ecological
zoning to guide public investment to sustainable locations should
be a condition sine qua non of future projects in such areas.  In
addition to public investments, the policy and regulatory
framework governing land occupation and development patterns in
the project area should be made consistent with the
recommendations of the agro-ecological zoning (i.e., by increasing
the private costs of occupying the more fragile areas).
Otherwise, direct investment to protect the environment may be
undermined by stronger incentives to exploit it in an
unsustainable manner.
(b)   The scope and content of project interventions should be
sufficient to achieve project objectives. Past POLONOROESTE
agricultural projects supported interventions only in parts of the
state, without addressing the movement of populations and general
state occupation patterns.
(c)   Excessively contralized decision-making at the federal level is
detrimental to efficient project implementation. Decentralization
in favor of the state and municipalities, including more control
over budgetary resources, would result in greater accountability
of project management to the community and facilitates project
implementation. Also, an increased role for NGOs in project
implementation would enhance accountability to the ultimate
beneficiaries and improve the responsiveness of project agencies.
(d)   When agricultural development requires long-term financing, a
careful analysis should be made of the availability of credit for
farmer beneficiaries and of the suitability of the terms for the
kind of cultivation planned (in this case, perennial tree crops
which do not generate income during the development period). If
suitable sources of credit are not available, and where the
failure of the agricultural development strategy may result in
environmental degradation (e.g., extensive deforestation), the
Bank should either make special provision for credit in the
project itself or should not support the project at all.
(e)   Innovative projects with above-average risks need a monitoring and
evaluation system oriented to generate early warnings about
project impact and implementation problems, and project design
should provide considerable flexibility to allow for the timely
introduction of adequate corrective measures. In addition, a



- 14 -
longer start-up period and less optimistic &ssumptions about the
speed of farm development should be made for projects to be
implemented in relatively unknown or difficult environments.
(f)  The physical demarcation of environmental conservation units and
Amerindian reserves is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition
for their protection. Finencial disincentives, such as the
absence of public physical and social infrastructure in the
surrounding areas and strong enforcement capacity to prevent and
punish invasions are also required for ensuring the protection of
such areas.
2.27        The design of the proposed Rond8nia Natural Resource Management
Project has taken these lessons into account. Most importantly, agro-
ecological zoning was used as the starting point for project design, and an
agreement has been reached with the Federal and State Governments to make
appropriate changes to the policy and regulatory framework which has
influenced the process of environmental degradation in Rond8nia and to modify
public investme"t programs in accordance with the zoning recommendations. A
statewide perspective has been adopted, with specific project interventions
geared to the kinds of land use and environmental protection activities
identified through agro-ecological zoning. Project organization and
management arrangements, monitoring and evaluation systems, and the ongoing
and planned interaction with NGOs reflect the need for decentralized decision-
making, rapid feedback and greater dialogue with and responsiveness to project
beneficiaries. Without losing sight of the goal of simplicity, the project
does include the range of interventions which have been proven to be essential
to the avoidance of natural resource degradation and enhancement of
environmental protection in the Amazon Basin, including, inter alia, adequate
credit to assist farmers in making the transition from slash and burn to more
sustainable agriculture. The project monitoring system has been designed to
allow for early adaptation of project content and strategy, if necessary.
Finally, Government assurances that no public physical or social
infrastructure would be implemented in areas without sustainable development
or conservation units, and the strong enforcement arrangements to be
implemented would help to ensure compliance with the project's environmental
objectives.



- 15 -
III. THE PROJECT
Orinin and Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.01        The Bank's lending program for Brazil is placing increased
emphasis on a wide spectrum of environmental issues, including soil erosion,
depletion of renewable resources, and air and water pollution from industrial
waste. With regard to the Amazon Basin, despite the serious problems
encountered by the earlier POLONOROESTE projects, the Bank is in a much better
position today than in the past to assist Brazil in fostering a more rational
development of the Northwest Region, because of the gradual strengthening of
essential institutions, improved technical knowledge and the growing
commitment within the country to sound environmental management. Continued
Bank assistance through the proposed project would play a crucial role in
consolidating sustainable development in Rondonia. A distinguishing feature
of Bank involvement at this stage, largely missing from the earlier Northwest
agricultural operations, would be the explicit effort to implement in Rondonia
adaptations to the policy and regulatory framework which governs occupation
and investment patterns in the State, in order to make it more supportive of
the long-term objectives of sustainable development and sound natural resource
conservation and management.
3.02        A Bank identification mission in November 1987 reviewed
preparation documents on Rondonia's agro-ecological zoning and the development
strategy proposed for each of the six zones in the State (para. 2.24). The
mission also reached preliminary agreement with the Federal and State
Governments on the simultaneous need to initiate work on the reform of
environmental policies and regulations. Under the leadership of the Minister
of Interior, a series of high-level meetings took place during January-March
1988, among representatives of concerned Federal Ministries and the State
Government of Rond8nia. They identified and agreed on the principal elements
that a new framework should have in order to promote movement from the
prevailing extensive agricultural development scenario, towards greater
intensification of land use, in accordance with the State's agro-ecological
zoning. The Government then proposed to the Bank a series of policy reforms
which it was prepared to undertake as conditions for Bank support of the
proposed Rondonia Natural Resource Management Project.
3.03        Recognizing that a development strategy based on agro-ecological
zoning would not succeed if it rested on fiat alone, the Government also
prepared the Rondonia State Agricultural and Forestry Plan (PLANAFLORO), which
proposes an investment program for environmental conservation, management and
enforcement in those areas of Rondonia that should remain under forest cover,
and a complementary medium-term agro-forestry development program and
supporting infrastructure and services to encourage sustainable productive
activities in those already deforested areas whire the population should
remain concentrated. During the following year the Government refined the
PLANAFLORO proposals and initiated implementation of the agro-ecological
zoning. The project was appraised in July/August 1989. Due to changes of
Federal Government in 1990 and State Government in March 1991, loan processing



- 16 -
was delayed. A post-appraisal misoion took place in June/July 1991 and lran
negotiations were completed in December 1991.
?Rolect Obiectives
3.04        The principal objective of the proposed project would be to
implement an improved approach -- shaped by difficult past experience -- to
natural resource management, conservation and development in one state
(Rond8nia) of the environmentally fragile Amazon Basin. The project would
assist the Government to:
(a)   institute a series of changes in key policies, regulations and
public investment programs i.n order to provide a coherent
incentive framework for sustainable development in Rond8nia;
(b)   conserve the rich biodiversity of the State, while creating the
basis for the sustainable utilization of its natural resources for
the direct economic benefit of the local population;
(c)   protect and enforce the borders of all conservation units,
Amerindian reserves, public forests and extractive reserves, and
control and prevent illegal deforestation, wood transport and
forest fires;
(d)   develop intensive and inteqrated farming systems in areas suitable
for pe'-manent agriculture and agro-forestry, and systems for
sustainable forest management and extraction of non-wood forest
products in other areas which should remain under natural forest
cover;
(e)   support priority investments in socio-economic infrastructure and
services needed to implement the State's agro-ecological zoning in
already occupied and deforested areas; and
(f)   consolidate the technical and operational capacity of State
institutions, particularly those responsible for agricultural and
forestry support services, and the protection and .aanagement of
State and Federal conservation units and Amerindian reserves.
Environmental Policy Reform Prooram
3.05        The reform of environmental policies is essential to ensure that
future development of the State of Rond8nia is sustainable (para. 2.21).
Almost all of the policy reforms center on the implementation of agro-
ecolcgical zoning (paras. 2.24 and 3.06). The main features of the reform
program are summarized in Annex 1. The measures, most of which have already
been undertaken by the Federal and State Governments, include:
(a) institutionalization of the State's agro-ecological zoning; (b) the
elimination of deforestation as a criterion for obtaining land title, the
adoption of suitable land regularization policies and practices, and the
establishment of a state laad institute to develop and administer land policy
in accordance with 'lhe agro-ecological zoning; (c) elimination of economic and



- 17 -
fiscal incentives which e..courage inefficient resource allocation, non-
sustainable private investment and environmental degradation; (d) adoption of
suitable policies concerning the interdiction, delimitation, demarcation and
protection of Amerindian areas, and provision of key services to their
indigenous inhabitants; and (e) reduction of the rate of spontaneous migration
to Rond8nia tnrough dissemination of information elsewhere in Brazil,
particularly in those states from which the majority of migrants have
originated, explaining the agro-ecological zoning system and the state's
policy on land occupation and planned enforcement mechanisms. The medium-term
State and Federal investment programs for Rondonia have also been revised so
as to better reflect land use capabilities and other environmental
considerations, and it has been agreed that agro-ecological zoning will
discipline all future Government investment decisions in the State. The
monitoring and impact assessment system which has been developed for the
project, and which would be functional by the start-up of the project
(para. 3.49), would include specific provisions for monitoring compliance with
the agro-ecological zoning plan. During negotiations, the Borrower and the
State of RondOnia provided assurances that: (a) the agreed environmental
policy reforms would be implemented throughout the life of the project; and
(b) the Federal and St&te investment programs for Rondonia, which now take
into account land use capabilities, ecological and agro-ecological zoning
considerations, would be maintained consistent with such considerations; and
that the State would submit for Bank review and comment, by Septem.er 30 of
each year, any intended update of the investment program for the forthconiing
year (para. 4.02 (a)).
Acro-ecoloaical Zoning
3.06        The objective of agro-ecological zoning in Rondonia is to
rationalize the occupation of the state and to allow a better utilization of
its natural resources, according to the natural fertility of the soils and
other socio-economic and ecological considerations. Zone 1 is the most
densely populated part of central Rondonia, where officially sponsored
colonization efforts have been concentrated. It contains a combination of
most of the r.ate's better soils and areas of moderate fertility, which are
capable of suLporting some form of sustainable cultivation, mainly through
farming systems based on intercropping of perennial treecrops and agro-
forestry. The zone also includes small sections of quite poor soils where no
further settlement should take place. Zone 2 is less densely settled and
includes areas of generally moderate to poorer soil fertility, in which some
small communities have developed without the support of official colonization
schemes, interspersed with extensive livestock operations and areas of both
primary and secondary forest. Zone 3 is located in the northern part of
Rondonia along the seasonally flooded margins of the Mamor6, Madeira and
Machado rivers, where very small sedentary populations make their livelihood
from sustainable agricultural systems which they have developed on alluvial
soils, fishing and rudimentary non-wood forest extraction activities. Zone 4
includes areas which also have potential for sustainable extractive non-wood
production derived from trees and plants (e.g., native rubber, Brazil nuts,
palm nuts, gum, perfumes and pharmaceutical products), with forest cover
totally maintained. Zone 5 has the potential, given proper Government support
and control, for sustainable forest management with selective logging and



- 18 -
replacement/enrichment of exploited species. Zone 6 includes a wide variety
of the State's most fragile ecosystems without potential for any currently
known sustainable use, Amerindian and biological reserves, and national
forests. in this zone, critical conservation units and .eserves need to be
demarcated and protected, and forest cover totally maintained (Map IBRD
21926R).
3.07        Agro-ecological zoning was legally instituted by State of Rondonia
Decree Law No. 3782 of June 14, 1988, and later converted into State
Complementary Law NO 52 of December 20, 1991. Written legal opinions from the
Federal and State General Counsels concerning the enforceability of this law
were reviewed by the Bank during loan negotiations and found to be
satisfactory. After two years of application, agro-ecological zoning has
already begun to demonstrate its usefulneos as a development tool in guiding
public investments and discouraging undesired settlements and resource
exploitation in zones considered inappropriate for such purposes. A
reasonable effort has been launched to make the public in Rond8nia and
elsewhere in Brazil aware of the importance and benefits of, Lad the limits
imposed by, the zoning developed by the State. During negotiations, the State
of RondOnia provided assurances that it would maintain throughout the life of
the project, and revise annually, its media program to discourage spontaneous
migration to Rond8nia and to generate information concerning agro-ecological
zoningq that the revised program and timetable for the following year would be
sent to the Bank for review and comment no later than November 15 of each
year; and that the program would be implemented in accordance therewith
(para. 4.01 (a)).
Prolect Comnonents
3.08        The project has been tailored to the agro-ecological conditions
and sustainable development potential of each of the major agro-ecological
zones (para. 3.06). It would include four major componenttst
(a)   Environmental Conservation. Manacement and Protection 128% of
total baseline costs), including land zoning, mapping and
regularization; establishment, management and protection of
conservation units and Amerindiar reserves; sustainable forest
management; extractive reserves; environmental protection; and
institutional strengthening, technical assistance and studies;
(b) Aaro-forestry Develomment 136% of total baseline costs), including
agro-forestry research, rural extension, rural credit and input
supply;
(C)   Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services _31% of total baseline
cote), including a two-year time slice of essential activities in
health, education and water supply, and a five-year time slice of
road and river transport activities; and
(d)   Proiect Administration. Monitorina and Evaluation, and Technical
Assistance (5% of total baseline costs), including, inter alia,
the yearly contracting of an Independent Evaluation Committee,



- 19 -
with participation of NG0 representatives, to evaluate project
progrees and recommend any needed changes in strategy or content.
3.09 The distribution of project activities over the six agro-3colcgic&l
zones would be related to their sustainable development potential. For each
of the zones, the executing agencies would establish esparate sets of
appropriate policies and implementation guidelines. Agro-forestry research,
rural extension, credit and input supply would be concentrated in Zone 1,
where the focus would be on intensification of farming systems based on
recuperation/enrichment of forest fallow and intercropping of perennial
treecrops and agrofocestry. In the areas of more moderate fertility within
Zone 1, the focvs would be on consolidation without expansion of current
settlements. Forest cover would be maintained on all steep slopes and poorer
soils.  Project activities in Zone 2 wo,ld be limited to assisting only
established communities of small farmers, with the Government taking .'!
necessary measures to halt any further expansion of extensive livestock
ranching. Forest management and improved extraction of non-wood forest
products (extractive reserves) would be concentrated in Zones 3, 4 and 5, and
management and protection of conservation units and Amerindian reserves in
Zone 6. Project activities related to land regularization, zoning and mapping
would have statewide coverage.
A.  Environmental Conservation, Management and Protection
3.10        The overall objective of this component is to help conserve the
state's biodiversity, while creating the basis for sustainable natural
resource management and utilization for the dir'ct economic benefit of the
local population. It comprises seven subcomponents, described below.
3.11        Land Zonina. Mayning and Reoularization.  The land tenure
structure in much of Rond6nia is uncertain, due to many overlapping laws and
regulations (e.g., usufruct laws, squatters, rights, occupation licenses).
Therefore, clarifying the present situation and developing appropriate legal
measures and policies, and the capability to enforce them, are essential in
order for the Government to be able to direct the future occupation of the
State in accordance with the agro-ecological zoning. Many land-related
activities in Brazil have been decentralized to the state level, and Rond8nia
has established a State Land Institute (ITERON). The project would provide
support to ITERON in the form of physical facilities, equipment and materials,
contractual services, studies and salaries. Presentation of a satisfactory
agreement between the State Government and INCRA concerning land
regularization policies and practices to be observed in Rond8nia, consistent
with the objectives of sound forest management and protection, would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.03 (a)).
3.12        The available maps of R^nd8nia are at a scale of 1:1,000,000,
except for a soil map of 1:500,000. While these have been adequate for
general planning purposes, smaller-scale maps are now needed for detailed
planning and implementation (e.g., for proper border control of zones and
reserves; agro-forestry planning for specific areas within Zone 1 and 2). The
project would finance the preparation and distribution by ITERON of statewide
agro-ecological, climatological, soil and topographic maps- During



- 20-
negotiations, the State of Rondonia provided assurances that these statewide
maps, all satisfactory to the Bank, would be completed no later than December
31, 1993 and subsequently distributed (para. 4.01 (b)). The project would
also assist ITERON in creating a data bank to register, update and control all
land transactions in the State, and would provide for the permanent titling of
some 500 sharecropper families working in areas of good soils in Zone 1.
3.13        The project would also support the cartographic work necessary for
the creation, management and protection of conservation units, public forests,
extractive reserveo and Amerindian reserves, and the border demarcation of
approximately 9,900 kms and re-demarcation of another 1,600 kms oft (a) State
forest reserves (covering a total of 2.5 million ha); (b) State conservation
units (1.2 million ha); (c) Fedaral conservation units (1.6 million ha);
(d) Amerindian reserves (about 5.0 million ha); and (e) extractive reserves
(3.3 million ha). Demarcation of Amerindian reserves would be made under
agreement with the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI), and the establishment
of extractive reserves under agreement with the National Institute for
Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA) and the State Secretariat for
Environmental Development (SEDAM-RO).
3.14        Establishment and Management of Conservation Units.  Conservation
units are natural areas set aside for the preservation of sample ecosystems
and their biological diversity. In Brazil the main categories of conservation
units are national, state and municipal parks, which are relatively large
areas partially open for tourism and recreation; biological reserves oriented
to the protection of natural cycles and endangered species; and ecological
stations, which are the smallest in size and concentrate on comparative
research.
3.15        Vnder the project, SEDAM-RO would establish and maintain five
State parks (Guajar&-Mirim, Serra dos Parecis, Candeias, Serra dos Reis, Rio
Corumbiara), two biological reserves (Ouro Preto, Tragadal), and one State
ecological station (Serra Tres Irmaos), covering an aggregate area of about
1.1 million ha. In addition, five municipalities in Zones 1 and 2 (Porto
Velho, Colorado d'Oeste, Rolim de Moura, Vilhena and Ji-Paran&) would each
establish a municipal nature park ranging in size from 200-500 ha, with
technical support from SEDAM-RO. Four existing Federal conservation units
(Pacaas Novo0 National Park, the biological reserves of Guapor6 and Jaru, and
the Cuni& Ecological Station), which are in poor condition because of lack of
maintenance, would be rehabilitated by IBAMA. State decrees establishing the
State conservation units which are to be demarcated in the first year of the
project (the serra dos Tres Irmaos Ecological Station; Guajar&-Mirim, Candeias
and Rio Corumbiara State parks; and the Rio Ouro Preto and Tragadal biological
reserve) were reviewed during loan negotiations and found to be satisfactory
and the State of Rond8nia provided assurances that it would maintain these
units (para. 4.01 (c)). The State of Rond8nia also provided assurances at
negotiations that: (a) the draft State decrees for the establishment of all
remaining State conservation units (the Serra dos Parecis and Serra dos Reis
State parks) would be presented to the Bank for commrent no later than June 30,
1993; and (b) by September 30, 1993 it would have established by decree and
would thereafter maintain, these same conservation units (para. 4.01 (d)).



- 21 -
3.16        The costs of the border demarcation of these various conservation
units are included in the land zoning, mapping and regularization component
(paras. 3.11-3.13). To ensure the effective maniagement of the conservation
units, the project would also finance lodging facilities and control posts,
equipment, salaries and other incremental operating costs for SEDAM-RO and
IBAMA. Facilities would be made of wood and their location selected on the
basis of initial surveys. A first version of a management plan would be
prepared within one year after staff are in place at each unit, and no
additional works would be executed unless justified in the management plan.
The focus cf management efforts during the first five years would be on
familiarization with the environment of each unit, information gathering,
preparation and implementation of the unit's management plan, and liaison with
local inhabitants to make them aware of the purposes of the conservation
units.
3.17        Environmental Protection.  This subcomponent would aim to
strengthen the institutional capabilities of: (a) SEDAM-RO and the State
Forestry Police to protect and enforce the borders of all conservation units,
Amerindian reserves, public forests and extractive reserves, and to control
and prevent illegal deforestation, wood transport and forest fires; (b) IBAMA
and SEDAM-RO to protect, supervise and promote fishing activities and to
protect endangered wildlife species in the State of Ror.donia. The project
would finance equipment, construction of outposts for the State Forestry
Police and field offices for SEDAM-RO, equipment, materials, salaries and
other incremental operating costs.
3.18        Contamination of rivers and fisheries resources in Rond-Snia, due
primarily to the use of mercury in gold mining, and secondly, to exploitation
of cassiterite, is now reaching proportions which could place at risk the
health of the population in some areas. In addition, many other polluting
activities (e.g., manufacturing, except for forest products; hospitals;
thermoelectric power plants) go largely unregistered. The project would
assist SEDAM-RO to reduce water pollution and register and control other
potential polluting activities through: (a) establishment and operation of a
laboratory for the analysis of water quality; (b) survey, cadastral
registration and licensing of critical pollution areas and activities
(excluding forestry and agriculture, which are registered by other agencies);
and (c) related educational campaigns and training activities. Licensing and
control in the interior of Rondonia would be carried out from existing and six
additional field offices of SEDAM-RO to be constructed and equipped under the
project.
3.19        Forest Manaaement.  In order to conserve the state's renewable
forestry resources in areas of Zone 5, the project would support: (a) the
demarcation, establishment and protection of eight State forest reserves
covering an aggregate area of about 1.8 million ha; (b) the development of a
pilot exercise in the Sao Domingos State forest reserve, including preparation
of a forest inventory and management plan, to test the feasibility of limited
extractive operations and resource replenishment; (c) the development and
implemen'ation of management plans for 23 existing block reserves with an
aggregate area of about 105,000 ha in the vicinity of the rural settlements of
Urupa, Machadinho and Cujubim; (d) the development of one Machadinho block



- 22 -
reserve as a pilot project, including preparation of a management plan and
detailed action program, with farmer and rubber-tapper participation,
supervision of extractive operations and resource replenishment; (e) the
strengthening and supervision of forest management throughout the State; and
(f) forestry sector studies. State decrees establishing four (Rio S&o
Domingos, Rio AbunA, Rio Roosevelt and Rio Madeira) of the eight forest
reserves .,ere reviewed during loan negotiations and found to be satisfactory,
and the State of Rond8nia provided assurances that it would maintain these
reserves (para. 4.01 (c)). The State of Rond8nia also provided assurances at
negotiations that: (a) the draft State decrees for the establishment of the
remaining four forest reserves (Rio Guapor6, Rio Mequens, Rio Machado and Rio
Vermelho) would be presented to the Bank for comment no later than June 30,
1993; and (b) by September 30, 1993, it would have established, and would
thereafter maintain, these same reserves (para. 4.01 (d)). SEDAM-RO would be
responsible for implementation of this sub-component, following land
demarcation by ITERON. Demarcation costs are included under the sub-component
for land regularization, zoning and mapping (paras. 3.11-3.13). The project
would finance civil works, including basic infrastructure for the reserves,
equipment, salaries and other operating costs for SEDAM-RO.
3.20        Extractive Reserves.  With the objective of establi-hing and
developing sustainable options for the economic utilizition of non-wood
natural forest products, and to improve the employment and incomes of the
local forest inhabitants in Zones 3 and 4, the project would support: (a) the
creation, demarcation and protection of six extractive reserves with an
aggregate area of about 3.5 million ha for sustained production of native
rubber, Brazil nuts and some 30 other products which are now collected on only
a very small scale (e.g. fruits for food and colorants, petiols and stems for
fiber, bark for tannin, seeds for oil, and products having pharmaceutical/
medical use); (b) provision of land use rights, technical assistance and
marketing support for native products, to some 2,400 rubber tappers and
riverine inhabitants of the reserves; (c) development of the Ouro Preto
extractive reserve as a pilot project, including special research on
regeneration, identification of new species of potential commercial interest,
extraction technology and ecological impact; and (d) market development and
limited in-situ processing/packaging activities. During loan negotiations the
State of Rondonia provided satisfactory evidence of the establishment of the
Rio Preto/JacundA extrective reserve, and provided assurances that this
reserve would be maintained (para. 4.01 (c)). The State of Rond6nia also
provided assurances at negotiations that: (a) the draft State decree- for the
establishment of the remaining five extractive reserves (Rio Pacaas Novos, Rio
Novo, Rio Cauteric, Sao Miguel/Pedras Negras, Jacy/Parana) would be presented
to the Bank for comment no later than June 30, 1993; and (b) by September 30,
1993, it would have established, and would thereafter maintain, these same
reserves (para. 4.01 (d)). ITERON would be responsible, in coordination with
INCRA, for the demarcation and provision of land use rights to reserve
occupants, and would have general responsibility for coordination of other
institutions working in the reserves. SEDAM-RO would be responsible for
technical assistance and for support of market development and product
processing activities, and the Agro-Forestry Research Center of EMBRAPA
(CPAF/EMBRAPA) for research. The project would include civil works, including



- 23 -
infrastructure needed for the development and management of the reserves,
equipment, materials, salaries and other incremental operating costs.
3.21        Support to Amerindian Communities.  To help safeguard the areas
occupied by indigenous groups in the State of Rond8nia against illegal
encroachment and use by outsiders, and to strengthen health services for these
groups, the project would support: (a) the border demarcation of five
Amerindian reserves with an aggregate area of about 500,000 ha; (b) renewal of
the boundaries of some sections of 12 reserves which were previously
demarcated, covering an area of about 4.7 million ha; (c) identification of,
and establishment of contact with, up to 14 of the isolated Indian groups in
the State which have not yet been officially reached, and border demarcation
of their areas where appropriate; (d) improved health services through
training of FUNAI's field health staff and strengthening of its mobile health
teams; construction, equipping and operation of four infirmaries attached to
State hoapitals, to accommodate the special needs of indigenous patients;
(e) external protection of Amerindian areas by the State Forest Military
Police and internal vigilance by FUNAI staff; and (f) improved monitoring and
state participation in the resolution of Amerindian problems, through the
creation of a joint FUNAI/State team.
3.22        The joint FUNAI/State team would comprise two Amerindian
specialists seconded by FUNAI, two state professionals, a UNDP technical
specialist in indigenous affairs (already hired), and consultant services to
support the work of the team. FUNAI and IBAMA have already signed in 1991 an
agreement with the State to authorize the latter to provide external
protection to the Amerindian reserves and project monitoring. Demarcation of
the Amerindian areas would be carried out under a separate agreement between
FUNAI and ITERfON (para. 3.13). Agreement has also been reached with FUNAI for
the State Secretariat of Health (SESAU) to provide acute care health services
to Amerindians in State hospitals (para. 3.35). All other activities would be
executed directly by FUNAI. Management of the component would be the joint
responsibility of FUNAI and the State Secretariat of Planning. The project
would include civil works, equipment, medicines, salaries and other
incremental operating costs.
3.23        During the process of project preparation and negotiations, the
Government officially approved the demarcation of the Tubarao Latunde, Parque
Indigena Aripuana, Roosevelt and Uru-eu-wau-wau Indigenous Reserves, and
completed the registration of the Parque Indigena Aripuana. During
negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that: (a) by May 31, 1992 they
would complete the registration with the Deoartamento do Patrim8nio da Uniao
(DPU) of the Pacaas Novos, Roosevelt, Tubar&o Latunde and Uru-eu-wau-wau
Amerindian reserves, and take all necessary steps to register such reserves
with the appropriate local land registries in Rond8nia (para. 4.02 (b)).
3.24        Institutional Strenatheninq. Studies and Technical Assistance.
State capacity t.o implement environmental conservation and protection
activities is constrained since most of its institutions having to do with the
environment are relatively young (none of them existed when the State was
created at the end of 1981). To help overcome this limitation and develop the



- 24 -
additional knowledge required to successfully implement the environmental
activities and to increase public awareness of environmental issues, the
project would support an intensive program oZ training, technical assistance,
studies, and environmental education campaigns.  The project would finance:
(a) 12 courses for SEDAM-RO staff in environmental protection, including
topics such as administration of ecological stations and biological reserves,
preparation and analysis of environmental impact reports, and environmental
damage assessment and prevention, including, inter alia, pollution control,
regeneration of deteriorated areas, and control of accelerated erosion;
(b) the development of forestry specialization courses (1,600 hours/year) at
the agricultural secondary school of Ji-Parenf; (c) two, two-month training
courses for groups of 20 university-trained foresters/agronomists in
sustainable forest management, conservation units, agroforestry and management
of forest fallow; (d) six "Master of Science" degrees in sustainable forest
management, agro-forestry and management of protected areas; (e) six one-month
internships in the areas of forest extraction methods, agro-forestry and
administration of national parks; (f) educational materials and teacher
training on environmental issues; (g) preparation of public information
materials and other support for the establishment of municipal councils to
heighten public awareness on environmental issues; and (h) technical
assistance and consultant services to support project implementation, training
and preparation of studies. The State Project Secretariat of Planning would
be responsible for coordination of this component. The Government is planning
to enter into an agreement with UNDP to secure its assistance in facilitating
arrangements for training and contracting of studies and consultants.  The
project would finance civil works, laboratory facilities and salaries of six
forestry professors for the agriculture secondary school of Ji-Parana, travel
and per-diems for training consultants and trainees, travel, consultalt fees,
studies, training and publication materials.
B. Aaro-Forestrv Development
3.25        Agro-forestry development activities would be carried out in
already deforested areas in Zones 1 and 2 which have the better soils and are
capable of sustainable agriculture. In the past, much of this land was
brought under cultivation through a combination of officially sponsored
settlement schemes and private initiatives, applying low cost, extensive and
itinerant production systems, which resulted in unnecessary deforestation and
pasture burning. In broad terms, for every productive ha under annual crops,
four ha of forests were cleared; for every ha of grazed pasture, two ha were
cleared. Besides being environmentally destructive, such farming systems are
simply not sustainable. Instead, this project would foster the transformation
to permanent, sustainable smallholder farming systems through a series of
interventions designed to: (a) concentrate agricultural support services in
the most productive and fertile areas of Zones 1 and 2; (b) promote the
cultivation of suitable perennial crops; (c) support recuperati.:n of cropping
area, predominantly on fallow land or abandoned pasture land, and initiate a
program of enriched fallow and silvipastoral systems; (d) diversify the
existing crop mix by promoting viable new crops, including timber trees,
developing mixed cropping systems and introducing crop rotation techniques;
and (e) reinforce efforts to retain iorest reserves at the farm level, by
developing appropriate replanting and product extraction techniques. In



- 25 -
synthesis, destructive agricultural exploitation would be reduced through
maintenance of a stable forest area in the productive zones, for both
ecological and economic reasons; reduction of the existing excessive fallow
area; improved fallow management in areas needed for the purposes of crop
rotation; and introduction of improved agro-forestry practices and new crops.
3.26        Aar-oForestry Research.  The Bank is currently supporting a Third
Agricultural Research Project for Brazil, which emphasizes basic research for
the Northeast and North regions, including the Amazon basin. The currently
proposed project would finance complementary adaptive and applied research
work for Rond8nia, in support of the agricultural strategy described in para.
3.25. Research would be carried out by the Agro-Forestry Research Center of
EMBRAPA (CPAF/EMBRAPA); the Executive Committee for the Cocoa Development Plan
(CEPLAC); and the State Secretariat for Environmental Development (SEDAM-RO).
In the past these three agencies have acted independently and with little on-
farm experimentation, which contributed to the disproportionate focus on
monocultivation and livestock raising. As a first step towards improving
their collaboration, the overall five-year research plan for the proposed
project and the detailed first year annual research program have been
developed jointly by the three institutions.
3.27        CPAF/EMBRAPA would focus on mixed cropping systems, improved
forest fallow management systems, agro-forestry and the preparation of site
specific recommendations for priority areas. CEPLAC would address mainly
disease control, improvement of the genetic base, and diversification into
alternative tree crops on soils of lesser fertility. SEDAM-RO would
concentrate on the agronomy of suitable new tree species for intercropping and
on research for natural forest management. Extension-research linkages would
also be strengthened through participation of the State Technical Assistance
and Rural Extension Company (EMATER-RO) in annual research programming and
supervision of on-farm experiments, and by the fact that research and
extension staff would both be located at regional stations in Zones 1 and 2.
The project would finance construction of staff houses, offices and field
laboratories, agricultural and laboratory equipment, special studies, salaries
and other incremental operating costs.
3.28        Rural Extension.  The State agricultural extension agency, EMATER-
RO, expanded rapidly under the previous POLONOROESTE projects, in the process
gaining valuable experience regarding smallholders, needs and perceptions.
However, its effectiveness has been limited by inadequate research back-up,
excessive administrative tasks, insufficient attention to field work,
concentration on specific crops rather than on overall farm planning, and lack
of rural credit to support its recommendations. CEPLAC and the former State
Forestry Institute (now part of SEDAM-RO) have also provided independent rural
extension services in Rond8nia for cocoa and forestry, respectively.
Recently, EMATER-RO, CEPLAC and SEDAM-RO have started to improve their
cooperation, and the project would further integrate extension work through
joint extension planning and staff training, establishment of combined on-farm
demonstration plots, and development of combined group extension work.
Specifically, the project would include about 240 demonstration areas, the
promotion of about 40 farmers' associations, training of extension agents,
development of radio and television programs and farmer training. Some 52,000



- 26 -
farmers would be assisted on an individual or group basis, with EMATER-RO
serving about 43,000 farmers and focusing on mixed cropping, farming systems,
agro-forestry and forest fallow management; CEPLAC assisting about 6,000
farmers, focusing on diversification out of cocoa and farming systems; and
SEDAM-RO assisting 3,000 farmers on forest management and farming systems.
3.29        The ratio of farmers per extension agent would be substantially
increased through group extension techniques; the use of modern extension
methodologies (audio-visual materials, radio, television); reduction of
administrative tasks and better organization of time spent in the field;
training of extension agents in integrated farming systems, management of
forest fallow, agro-forestry, forest management and farm budget analysis; and
promotion of farmers' associations. The target would be to establish an
extension network for EMATER-RO of 1 agent per 200 farmers by Year 4 of the
project period (compared to the current ratio of 1:70) and for CEPLAC of 1
agent per 130 farmers (compared to the current ratio of 1:80). It is expected
that in the long run a unified extension network would be developed. The
project would fi:ance staff houses, offices, training facilities, equipment,
salaries and other incremental operating costs. Funds also would be provided
for organization o;' farmers' meetings, legal establishment of farmer
associations and management training and technical assistance during their
initial operating ?eriod.
3.30        Rural Credit.  The lack of effective smallholder credit (caused
both by inadequate credit supply and restrictions on eligibility) under the
first generation POLONOROESTE projects seriously slowed down the development
of perennial crops in Rond8nia, thereby indirectly fostering slash and burn
shifting cultivation and high settler turnover. Recognizing the urgency of
providing credit services to stabilize settlement areas, the State Government
introduced a smallholder "credit in kind" system in 1985. Farmers have
received inputs in kind and repaid the credit in products. The system has
been adminibtered temporarily by '-he Secretariat of Agriculture (SEAGRI),
which also mar.vges input supply. The Rond8nia Storage Company (CAGERO) has
been in charge or receiving in-kind payments. The system has been well
accepted by eligible farmers, and repayment levels have been good.
3.31        Over the medium-term, commercial banks should begin to lend to
small iarmers in Rond8nia, but this is presently occurring only on an
exceptional basis because of high traneaction costs, the absence of commercial
bank agencies in the field and the large number of small farmers without
definitive land titles. Access to credit is a critical requirement for the
success of the project's agricultural/environmental strategy; and the
availability of credit through the State's in-kind system has already begun to
help reduce indiscriminate forest felling. However, as credit demand grows,
management of the collection and storage of in-kind payments is imposing
increasing logistical problems and costs. The State has, therefore, decided
to convert the system into one which is denominated in kind, but based on
financial transactions, a de facto indexing by product prices. Once credit
proposals are approved, farmers would receive purchase orders in their names,
which they could use to procure specified items from any public or private
supplier; repayment would be in cash. The project would support the formal
legal establishment of the new denominated in-kind credit system, known as the



- 27 -
Rond8nia State Agricultural Credit Fund (FUNDAGRO), which would be
administered by the Rond8nia State Bank (BERON). FUNDAGRO would fint,nce
investments and essential inputs (seeds; fertilizers, peat control chemicals)
for diversification into perennial crops other than cocoa and coffee,
enrichment of secondary growth/forest fallow with valuable wood species which
can be used in rotation with annual subsistence crops, in lieu of new
deforestation and other investments such as on-farm storage facilities. Under
the operating conditions of FUNDAGRO, the loan principal would be adjusted by
the annual variation in product prices with interest charged in accordance
with the formula applied under the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2960-BR).
Some 33,000 farmers would benefit from the project credit sub-component.
3.32        Legal documents establishing FUNDAGRO and the FUNDAGRO draft
operational manual were reviewed by the Bank during negotiations.
Presentation of the final satisfactory operating manual for FUNDAGRO would be
a condition of disbursement of the credit category of the loan
(para. 4.04 (a)). During negotiations, the State of Rond8nia provided
assurances thats (a) the operating manual for FUNDAGRO would be satisfactorily
implemented and the provisions of the manual would not be changed without
prior Bank approval; and (b) the performance of FUNDAGRO would be jointly
evaluated each year by the State Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and the
inter-institutional FUNDAGRO credit group referred to in the FUNDAGRO
operating Manual, SDR-PR and MEFP, with the annual evaluation sent to the Bank
for review by March 31 each year (para. 4.01 (e)).
3.33        Input SuvDlv.  With the increased occupation of the State, private
marketing activities have advanced in Zones 1 and 2. However, although more
areas now have reasonable access to private suppliers, there are still some
locations where seeds, and particularly seedlings, are not available for
farmers to purchase. The project would support the establishment by the State
Secretariat of Agriculture (SEAGRI) of four small nurseries 'n such locations,
for clonal gardens and special planting materials (citrus, grafts, Brazil
nuts, etc.), over a two-year period. It would finance seeds, seedlings,
fertilizers, pesticides, construction of the nurseries and staff and other
incremental operating costs. The seeds and seedlings produced would be sold
commercially by the Rondonia Storage Company (CAGERO) with the profits
generated by the end of the second project year used to fully support the
operations of the nurseries thereafter.
C. Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services
3.34        The project strategy calls for concentration of population in
those areas which have the potential ft-r permanent agriculture, to reduce
enc.oachment into other areas which, on agro-ecological grounds, should remain
under forest cover. In the short-term, this approach calls for relatively
more investment than would a strategy based on disorderly and predatory
occupation. Adequate and well-maintained transport infrastructure, water
supply and basic social services are important incentives for retaining
smallholders in Zones 1 and 2. Conversely, the State's commitment not to
provide such infrastructure and services elsewhere should serve as a strong
disincentive to encroachment into forested areas in Zones 3-6. The project
would therefore finance a two-year time slice of essential activities in



- 28 -
health, education and water supply and a five-year time slice of road and
river transport activlties.
3.35        Health.  Under the previous POLONOROESTE projects, the state
developed relatively good physical health infrastructure, in terms of
hospitals, health centers and health posts, but the quality of services
provided has been constrained by the lack of well-trained staff, equipment
permanent materials and medicines, and inadequate supervision. Thc new
project would support the consolidation of the existing health system in Zone
1 through: (a) training of rural health agents, nurses and doctors;
(b) strengthening of supervision at State, municipal and field levels;
(c) provision of equipment and permanent materials; and (d) health assistance
for acute care of Amerindian populations. The State Secretariat of Health
(SESAU) would be responsible for implementation of the subcomponent. Ths
project would finance the per diem, travel and other expenditures for training
of about 770 health staff; equipment, permanent materials and medicines for
health centers and health posts, consultant services for improvement of
management, training and health services delivery in the State; and
incremental operating costs. The project would also support the construction
of four infirmaries and related operating expenses to serve the special needs
of the Amerindian population; the costs associated with these infirmaries are
includLd under the subcomponent for a  %o:9 to Amerindian communities (paras.
3.21-3.22). During negotiations the bwri- 'er provided assurances that the
health staff needed to provide efficient Amerindian health care would be
assigned, allocated or transferred to this task by June 30, 1992
(para. 4.02 (g)).
3.36        Education.  Although only 40% of children between the ages of 7-14
years have access to education in the rural areas, the physical infrastructure
in terms of number of schools and classrooms in the rural area (2,600) is
relatively good, taking into consideration that Rond8nia is a new State to
which a very large number of migrants have moved during the past 10-15 years.
However, dropout and repeater rates are high (35% of students are regularly
retained for longer periods than normal), because of the relatively poor
quality of the education offered. Some of the main problems are the poor
qualifications of the majority of rural teachers, inadequate supervision, and
lack of equipment and educational materials. The project would support the
consolidation of the rural education system through: (a) rural teacher
training; (b) improvements in the supervision system at the State, municipal
and field levels; and (c) provision of equipment and materials. Specifically,
the project would finance training activities for 2,000 teachers, equipment,
travel and per-diems for improved supervision services, rehabilitation of some
200 rural schools, educational and other permanent materials, and incremental
operating expenditures.
3.37        Water SuRRlv.  The previous POLONOROESTE projects developed rural
service centers for settlers, known as NUARs (nGicleos urbanos de ap6io
rural). Although these NUARs are now in place, water supply and water
treatment facilities were never completed due to lack of resources. The
project would finance the completion of some 23 NUAR water aupply and water
treatment systems, which would be implemented by the Water Supply and Sewerage
Company of RondOnia (CAERG) over a two-year period and would provide



- 29 -
immediately noticeable results in terms of reducing hlealth problems caused by
water transmitted diseases. operation and maintenance of the systems would
continue on the present basis, with the NUAR users' associations carrying out
routine operation and maintenance and CAERG responsible for supervision and
major repairs.
3.38        Road and River Transnort.  Under the previous POLONOROESTE
projects there was a very rapid expansion of the agricultural road network in
Rond8nia, with some 12,000 km of different types and qualities of roads
constructed. Although the State's financial ability to maintain this
infrastructure is developing, it is not yet commensurate with the task at
hand. Adequate road rehabilitation is critical for the success of the
proposed project, to ensure input supply and marketing channels in Zone 1 and
2 areas. The project would support: (a) rehabilitation of some 3,900 kms of
State and municipal feeder roads; (b) pavement of 81 km of state feeder roads
in the most densely populated parts of Zone 1; (c) training; and
(d) completion of a State Road Master Plan. The Rond8nia Highway Department
(DER/RO) would, under contract with an acceptable project management firm,
administer the subcomponent, which would be executed by private contractors.
3.39        To avoid pressure to construct additional roads in areas where
forest cover should be maintained, and to facilitate the marketing of
extractive products (wild rubber, Brazil nuts, plants with pharmaceutical use,
etc.) from Zones 3 and 4, the project would assist in improving river
transportation. The objective would be to help provide low-cost and reliable
river transport services on the Madeira-Machado and Mamore-Guapore river
systems, as an incentive to the development of the extractive activities in
these areas. The Rond8nia Water T:ansport Company (ENARO) would provide the
required transport services, either directly or under concessionary
arrangements with private transport fitms. The project would help finance the
required improvements to river transport facilities, including the
construction or repair of small local port facilities and the dredging or
clearing of navigation channels, which will be contracted out by the Rond8nia
State Secretariat of Civil Works and Public Services (SEOPS), and the
construction or rehabilitatioa of freight and passenger boats. As a condition
of disbursement for this component, the State Government would prepare a
satisfactory plan for the development of water transport in these rivers, in
accordance with terms of reference agreed upon at negotiations
(para. 4.04 (b)).
D. Project Administration
3.40        The project would help to strengthen the institutional
capabilities of the State and Federal Project Coordination Units (paras. 3.41-
3.44), with particular emphasis on improving their monitoring and evaluation
capability through training, technical assistance and consultancies.
Specifically, the project would finance: (a) the installation costs of the
State Project Coordination Unit, including administrative offices, equipment
and operating costs; (b) the operating costs of the Federal National
Coordination Unit in the Coordination for the Center-West of the Secretariat
of Regional Development of the Borrower's Presidency (SDR-PR); (c) training,
technical assistance, consultants and studies; (d) processing facilities and



- 30 -
related expenditures for implementation of a monitoring system based on
satellite imagery, for the immediate detection of illegal deforestation and
invasion of protected areas, as an aid to project enforcement activities
(paras. 3.17-3.18): and (e) the yearly contracting of an Independent
Evaluation Committee, with participation of NGO representatives, to evaluate
the annual progress of the project and recommend any needed corrective
actions.
Protect Organizat ion and Implementation
3.41        Institutional Strengthening.  The proposed institutional and
administrative arrangements for the project are based on detailed analyses of
the lessons learned during implementation of the previous POLONOROESTE
projects. In the process, an effort was made to distinguish problems
attributable to lack of institutional capacity Per se, from those which were
due to inadequate or untimely release of counterpart funds. This is important
because funding proble.ns have been chronic throughout most of the period since
POLONOROESTE was established; when the situation improved during the later
years of the Program, implementation aleo accelerated and the State-level
agencies managed to execute almost 1JQ% of their physical targets.
3.42        The principal institutional problems of the earlier POLONOROESTE
projects have included: (a) overcentralization of decision-making and
implementation responsibility at the Federal level; (b) inexperienced State
institutions since Rond8nia was conferred Statehood only in end-1981;
(c) inadequate technical assistance and training, especially for some of the
more innovative activities in environmental protection, conservation and agro-
forestry development; and (d) the absence of adequate personnel policies to
allow key project agencies to hire and retain suitably qualified staff. For
each of the main project agencies a review was made of its organizational
structure, staffing, operating practices and budget. Taking into account the
stage of development of each agency, on the one hand, and the future
activities to be implemented on the other, provision has been made under the
project for institutional strengthening of the main agencies through increased
staffing, training, technical assistance and consultancies; and for
redefinition of lines of responsibility for project implementation between the
Federal and State Governments and among some executing agencies. The main
proposals for institutional strengthening under the project include:
(a)   major decentralization of responsibility and accountability for
the execution of most project activities from the Federal to the
State Government level;
(b)   primary reliance on the contracting out of project works, as
opposed to direct execution by public agencies;
(c)   reliance on existing tUovernment structures, rather than the
creation of special entities to serve the project;
(d)   extensive training, technical support and consultancy services,
particularly in fields requiring greater innovation or in areas in
which a major impact is expected in a short period of time;



- 31 -
(e)   improvements in personnel policies to enable executing agencies to
recruit and retain qualified staff; and
(f)   participation of NGOe in different aspects of project planning
(including the preparation of Annual operating Plans) and
imp 'ementation.
3.43        Coordination Arranaements (Chart 7.1).  Federal responsibility for
program coordination has been entrusted to the Secretariat of Regional
Development of the Presidency of the Republic (SDR-PR). Inter-ministerial
resolutions describe in general terms the way in which the Federal Ministries
and State Governments would collaborate, as well as the various programming,
budgeting and funding procedures to be used. In addition, presentation of a
satisfactory agreement between the Borrower (through the SDR-PR) and Rond8nia,
defining their respective obligations for project implementation, would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.03 (c)).
3.44        In Rond8nia a State Council, presided by the Governor, would be
responsible for overall guidance and policy direction for the project, as well
as for approval of annual project budgefts. The Council would comprise
representatives of SDR-PR, the Secretariat of Planning of Rond8nia (SEPLAN-
RO), State implementing agencies, FUNAI, the State offices of INCRA and IBAMA,
the Municipal Mayors' Association, and NGO representatives. SEPLAN-RO would
function as the Executive Secretariat of the Council. It would be assisted on
a day-to-day basis by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), which would be formed
by a Director, three Deputy Directors (in charge of the Technical, Financial
Control, and Monitoring and Evaluation Units), 13 section chiefs, and about 40
technicians and related support staff. The Technical Unit would be
responsible for the technical review and consolidation of the work programs of
the executing agencies, with separate sections in charge of environmental
control, forest development, agro-forestry, credit and marketing, Amerindian
support, and socio-economic infrastructure and services.  Technical staff
would spend a minimum of one week per month on field supervision, in order to
ensure close contact with field staff and project beneficiaries and effective
response to local problems. The Financial Control Unit would handle
budgeting, disbursements and accounting matters. The M&E Unit would assist
SEPLAN-RO and SDR-PR in project monitoring and evaluation, with particular
attention to the detection of deforestation and other forms of encroachment
into conservation units, Amerindian reserves and other protected areas.
Documents concerning the establishment and satisfactory staffing of the
Project Coordination Unit in the State Secretariat of Planning, together with
regulations governing the operating procedures and allocation of
responsibilities for project management and coordination, were discussed and
agreed at negotiations. Formal establishment of a satisfactory PCU would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (eara. 4.03 (d)). The State of Rond8nia
provided assurances that it would maintain the PCU, within the State
Secretariat aZ Planning, with structure, functions and staffing -- under the
management of a Project Director assisted by competent staff -- all as agreed
with the Bank (para. 4.01 (f)).                                                          IL



- 32 -
3.45        Implementation Arranoements.  The principal implementing agencies
would include those for land regularLzation (ITERON, INCRA); environmental
conservation, protection, forest management and support to Amerindian
communities (SEDAM-RO, IBAMA, FUNAI and the Forest Military Police), agro-
forestry research (CPAF/EMBRAPA, CEPLAC, SEDAM-RO), rural extension (EMATER-
RO, CEPLAC, SEDAM-RO), rural credit (BERON), input supply (SEAGRI, CAGERO),
road transport (DER-RO), rIver transport (ENARO, SEOSP), health (SESAU),
education (SEDUC) and wate-: supply (CAERG). These agencies would be directly
responsible for the budgeting and implementation of annual operating plans
(para. 3.46), and they would be accountable for the application of funds and
results obtained.  During the previous POLONOROESTE projects the lack of
responsiveness to project beneficiaries' needs and weak inter-agency
coordination were major shortcomings. Therefore, the agencies would locate
more staff in the field, and maintain fully authorized representatives in the
various zones, as appropriate. Funds would be provided by the project to
present and explain the new project to the field staff and the local and
municipal authorities. The various agencies would formalize the arrangements
governing their form of cooperation, clearly identifying the distribution of
tasks, and they would maintain an updated organization chart with job
descriptions of all key field personnel financed by the project. Drafts of
the agreements (convanios) for each component between the State Project
Coordinating Unit and the involved executing agencies were reviewed during
negotiations, and the presentation of satisfactory signed agreements would be
a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.03 (b),.
3.46        Annual Plans and Budgets.  Comprehensive updated annual planning
would adjust, detail and cost initially agreed targets and activities. These
plans uauld be tased on the multi-annual targets of the project, corrected
according to experience obtained in previous years, and would be completed in
preliminary form by June 30 of each year for submission to SEPLAN-RO and
SUDECO. By July 31 SDR-PR would consolidate the budgets with those of other
Federal agencies involved in Rond8nia, ensuring their internal consistency.
During negotiations, the Borrower provided assurances that the annual budget
proposal for the project for future years would be made available to the Bank
for comment by August 1S of each year; that the Draft Annual Operating Plans
(POAs), including the physical targets, budget, staffing, training and
procurement programs for each executing agency, would be made available to the
Bank by November 15 each year for review and comment; that the Bank would
receive a copy of the final plan and budget as soon as they have been
approved; and that the Borrower would take all measures to ensure that the
project is implemented in accordance with the POA& (para. 4.02 (c)).
Presentation of evidence that the State of Rond6nia and the Borrower have
included in their respective 1992 budgets, the amount of US$3.5 million
equivalent each, for expenditures required in 1992, would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (para. 4.03 (e)).
3.47        Proiect Monitorina and Environmental Im2act Assessment.  As
detailed below, physical and financial monitoring of project implementation,
and ongoing assessment of project impact, would be carried out by: (a) each of
the project executing agencies, on a routine basis; (b) the State Secretariat
of Planning through its PCU/M&E Unit and the Federal Government through SDR-
PR; (c) an Annual Independent Evaluation Committee, with the participation of



- 33 -
relevant NGOU and MEFP; (d) routine Bank supervision, supplemented by a joint
Government-Bank annual review of implementation; (e) a mid-term evaluation
review; and a final assessment of the project at the time of completion (PCR).
Project coordination and M&E activities would be supported by substantial
technical assistance and training, including a full-time UNDP team. Finally,
since the main measure of success of the various project interventions would
be their effectiveness in reducing the rate of deforestation in Rond8nia, the
project would provide for the establishment of a forest cover monitoring unit
within SEPLAN-RO, supported by image analysis equipment for aerial photography
and satellite imagery, to use SPOT panchromatic and Landsat imagery, which
would be available on a bi-weekly/monthly basis.
3.48        Monitoring would be, in the first instance, the responsibility of
the participating execating agencies. These entities would regularly collect
and analyze data on key project indicators to assess progress, compare results
obtained with initially expected target levels, and identify possible
problems. The State agencies would submit quarterly progress reports to the
M&E Unit of the PCU/SEPLAN-RO, which would conduct a technical review and
consolidate them for presentation to the State Project Council. The Federal
agencies involved would submit their reports to SDR-PR, which would make them
available to the State Council. During negotiations, the State of Rond6nia
provided assurances that copies of the semi-annual and annual progress reports
would be sent to the Bank through the SDR-PR no later than three months after
the end of each semester during the fiscal year (para. 4.01 (g)). These
progress reports would be based on the regular agency reports, the State
Council proceedings, and ad hoc reports on specific subjects carried out
during project implementation. They would: (a) describe the progress, or the
lack of progress, in project execution and the degree of success in
implementing agro-ecological policy; and (b) identify possible implementation
problems and describe plans to resolve them. These reports would be analyzed
by the Bank's routine supervision missions, and would serve as inputs co
annual joint Gove-.nment-Bank project implementation reviews (para. 3...0j.
3.49        In the past, monitoring activities have placed an excessive
administrative burden on field staff, in particular through the use of
multiple repetitive questionnaires and frequent visits of various
institutions. Under the project, information requirements would be
streamlined, and requests for statistical information on project progress and
developments in the field would be channelled through the management staff of
the participating agencies and the PCU. During negotiations the State of
Rond8nia provided assurances that it would: (a) revise and simplify all
project performance indicators and all operating procedures of the M&E unit,
and make the new system function, in a manner which is satisfactory to the
Bank, no later than June 30, 1992; (b) complete a baseline study of socio-
economic and environmental indicators of at least three municipalities
representative of the project area, not later than December 31, 1992; and
(c) complete, in a manner which is satisfactory to the Bank, a mid-term review
of the project and a final assessment of the impact and effect of agro-
ecological zoning on the State's economic and social development, and submit
it to tha Bank for review and comment no later than December 31, 1994
(para. 4.01 (h)).



- 34 -
3.50        Impact assessment would focus on the success of the project in
decreasing the rate of tropical deforestation in Rond8nia, improving
environmental preservation and Amerindian protection, encouraging the economic
utilization of designated areas, preventing all forms of non-sustainable
agricultural activity throughout the State, and generally discouraging and
reducing the rate of spontaneous migration to Rond8nia. In addition to
regular monitoring (para. 3.48), continuous environmental assessment would be
carried out undor a project-financed evaluation system, supported by the use
of weekly satellite imagery. In this regard, the Goverrment will enter into
an agreement with UNDP to field a team of specialists to provide technical
assistance to the Program, particularly by assisting Federal and State
authorities in developing and implementing the environmental monitoring and
evaluation system. During negotiations, the State of Rond8nia provided
assurances that each year it would invite an Independent Evaluation Committee
to monitor, with the participation of MEFP, the implementation of the
environmental policy and regulatory reforms undertaken in connection with the
project, and the compatibility of annual Fideral and State investment programs
in Rond8nia with the recommendations of the agro-ecological zoning; and the
performance achieved in respect of each of the various project components.
The composition of the Committee would include representatives of relevant
local Brazilian Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOe) and the Government would
make available to the Bank the findings of the Committee by June 30 of each
year, starting in 1992 (para. 4.01 (i)).
3.51        Accounts and Auditing.  Each of the Federal and State implementing
agencies would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, which
would be audited annually by independent private or public auditors acceptable
to the Bank. Copies of the audit reports on the various participating
agencies would be provided to the Bank through SDR-PR within six months of the
end of each fiscal year. The audit reports would also convey the auditor's
opinion and comment as necessary on the methodology employed in the
compilation of the Statements of Expenditures, their accuracy, the relevance
of supporting documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's
legal agreements and standards of record keeping and internal controls related
to the foregoing. The Special Account to be opened for the project would be
audited by independent auditore satisfactory to the Bank. The Federal and
State Governments provided assurances during negotiations that: (a) the
Special Account and the project accounts would be established, maintained and
audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) with
respect to withdrawals on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), that
such audits would contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together
with the procedures involved in their preparation, support the related
withdrawals; and (c) certified copies of the audited accounts and of the
auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bar'c within six months of the
close of e,ach fiscal year (para. 4.02 (d)).



- 35 -
Project Costs
3.52        Total project costs including taxes are estimated at US$228.9
million, with a foreign exchange component of US$48.4 million, or ab...ut 21% of
total costs (Loan and Project Summary and Annex 6). Project base line costs
amount to US$200.9 million, including US$5.7 million equivalent in local
taxes. Physical contingencies of US$5.1 million, or about 3% of total
baseline costs, have been estimated at 10% for civil works and 5% for
equipment and furniture. Price contingencies of US$22.9 million or 11% of
baseline cost were included and are based on estimated international inflation
rates of 3.7% p.a. through 1996. It was assumed that periodic currency
adjustments, estimated on a purchasing power parity basis, would compensate
for differences between the rates of US dollar and local inflation. Recent
experience indicates that this assumption may not be valid in some cases;
increases in local currency costs for civil construction during some of the
past years have exceeded the rate of devaluation of the local currency.
Therefore, project costs would be carefully monitored throughout the project
implementation period. In the event that this trend continues, it would
become necessary for the Government to finance these cost overruns, and the
Bank, if needed, would reduce its disbursement percentages to maintain
participation through project completion.
Financina Plan
3.53        The proposed Bank loan of US$167.0 million would finance 75% of
total project costs net of taxes, or 73% of costs including taxes (Annex 6,
Table 6.4). The share of Bank financing is justified because of the strong
environmental focus of this operation. Significant policy actions have
already been undertaken in preparation for the project, to which commitment is
high at both Federal and State levels. However, the fiscal situation in the
country makes it difficult at this point in time to carry out the kinds of
environmental initiatives planned under the project because the benefits,
although substantial in economic terms, would materialize only in the long-
term and largely in the form of foregone losses (paras. 3.62-3.63). The
proposed share of Bank financing would also help to reduce implementation
risks caused by inadequate or untimely counterpart funding. Counterpart funds
would be provrided by the Federal Government (US$31.0 million or 13.5% of costs
including taxes) and the State Government (US$30.9 million or 13.5% of costs
including taxes). The Bank loan would finance 100% of foreign exchange costs
and 66% of local costs. It would be repayable over 15 years, including a
five-year grace period. The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the
Borrower of the loan. To enable the early start-up of project activities,
retroactive financing would be provided up to a maximum of US$15.0 million in
respect of eligible project expenditures incurred before loan signing, but
after July 1, 1991, when the project was post-appraised.



- 36-
Procurement
3.54        Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Arranoementa
(USs million)
Procurement Method
Category                    ICB            LCB           OTHER      TOTAL COST
Civil Works                  -            48.6              f.0           54.6
(44.5)           (2-4)1/        (46.9)
Equipment, Furniture
and Materials              2.3            7.5             2.5            12.3
(2.3)         (6.3)            (2.2)          (10.8)
Technical Assistance,
Training, Studies &          -              -               34.8          34.8
Contractual Services                                       (34.5)        (34.5)
Investment Credit            -                             24.3           24.3
(21.9)        (21.9)
Salaries and Benefits        -              -              41.9           41.9
(8.5)         (8.5)
Other operating Costs        -             6.0              55.0          61.0
(3.0)           (41.4)         (44.4)
Total                       2.3           62.1            164.5          228.9
(2.3)        (53.8)           (110.9)        (167.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts (including
contingencies) expected to be financed by the Bank.
1./ Includes only materials for small civil works to be executed under force
account.
3.55        Civil works would include buildings, road paving and
rehabilitation, and land improvement. Because of the dispersed nature and
relatively small size of most of these works, for which the largest single
contract is not expected to exceed US$5.0 million, it is unlikely that foreign
contractors would be interested. Accordingly, Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedures would be used for civil works construction, although interested
foreign bidders would be allowed to participate. For all components other
than road and river transport, force account would be permitted for very small
works which cannot be grouped into contracts of at least US$150,000, provided
the aggregate value of such works does not exceed US$6.0 million. For these
works, the Bank would finance only the cost of materials, which would be
procured on the basis of evaluation of price quotations invited from at least
three suppliers, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Total civil works procurement under the project would amount to about US$54.6
million, of which US$48.6 million would be procured through LCB.



- 37 -
3.56        Contracts for goods, equipment, materials and other services
expected to cost between US$25,000 and US$500,000, and not exceeding an
aggregate amount of US$13.5 million, and helicopter services estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of US$2.0 million, would be procured under LCB
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Office equipment, furniture and other
similar goods required by several of the executing agencies over the project
implementation period, estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per contract,
would be awarded on the basis of evaluation of price quotations invited from
at least three suppliers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank,
provided they do not exceed an aggregate of US$2.5 million, or about 20% of
total procurernent of goods and equipment.
3.57        Contracts for goods exceeding US$500,000 for a cumulative total of
US$2.3 million, would be awarded through International Competitive Bidding
(ICE) following Bank procurement guidelines. Computers and electronic
equipment manufactured in Brazil and required by the project, as reserved
procurement items, would not be financed under the proposed loan. During
negotiations, the State of Rond8nia and the Borrower provided assurances that
those items would be procured and made available to the project in a timely
manner (para. 4.02 (e)). With regard to the credit sub-component, since the
majority of operations are expected to average less than US$1,000-2,000, and
no individual operation would exceed about US$50,000, normal commercial
procurement practices would be followed.
3.58        Civil works contracts over US$3.0 million and contracts for goods
and equipment over US$300,000 would be subject to prior Bank review of bidding
documents, bid evaluations, award proposals and final contracts. However, the
first two LCB procurements for works and the first two for goods, both
irrespective of the size of their contracts, would be subject to prior review
by the Bank of bid documents, bid evaluation, award proposals and final
contracts. In total, Bank prior review would cover about 60% of the value of
contracts financed under the project. Consultant services, would be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. During
negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Rond8nia and the Borrower
that the above procurement arrangements would be followed (para. 4.02 (f)).
Disbursements and Special Account
3.59        The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against
eligible project expenditures at the rates of: (a) 100% for all environmental
subcomponents, except land zoning, mapping and regularization; (b) 80% for
credit, input supply and land zoning, mapping and regulerization; (c) 65%
until aggregate disbursed amounts reach US$13.0 million for agricultural
extension, and US$4.5 million for agricultural research; thereafter 40% until
aggregate disbursed amounts reach US$17.0 million and US$5.5 million,
respectively, for these same subcomponents; and 15% for tne remaining funds
for these subcomponents; and (d) 75% for all other project sub-components
(Annex 6, Table 6.5). Disbursements for civil works not exceeding US$3.0
million, contracts for goods and equipment below US$250,000, works carried out
by force account and operating expenses would be made against Statement of
Expenditures prepared by the various executing agencies and the PCU and
certified by SDR-PR. All other expenditures would be fully documented.



- 38 -
Conditions of disbursement would be: (a) for the credit category of the loan,
the presentation of a satisfactory FUNDAGRO operating manual (paras. 3.32 and
4.04 (a)); and (b) for the river transport component of the project,
preparation by the State Government of a satisfactory plan for the development
of water transport in the Madeira/Machado and Mamore-Guapor6 river systems
(paras. 3.39 and 4.04 (b)).
3.60        To facilitate Bank disbursements and reduce Government
prefinancing requirements for local currency expenditures, a Special Account
would be opened in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$11.0
million. The Central Bank would act as the channel for Bank loan
disbursements. Withdrawals from the Special Account would be supported by the
required documentation or Statements of Expenditures. Loan disbursements are
expected to occur over about 5-1/2 years (Loan and Project Summary and Annex
6, Table 6.3). The Bank standard disbursement profile for this type of
project is about seven years, although the first POLONOROESTE agricultural
operation in Rond8nia (Loan 2060/2060-1-BR) took slightly longer to implement.
However, the State has now acquired extensive experience in implementing the
kinds of activities to be supported under the proposed project, reflected in
the fact that during 1990/1991 it has fully met annual physical execution
targets for Loan 2353-BR. Finally, Bank financial participation of 75% would
help to minimize counterpart funding shortages and delays which have played a
large role in past implementation delays. Consequently, the proposed 5-1/2
year disbursement period is feasible.
Protect Benefits and Justification
3.61        Some 5,000 to 6,000 Amerindians, 2,400 families of rubber tappers
and other forest dwellers, and 900 families of fishermen and riverine
inhabitants in Rondonia would benefit directly from the environmental
conservation, management and protection component of the project. A further
52,000 low-income smallholder families, currently residing in those areas of
the state which are suitable for sustainable development from an agro-
ecological standpoint, would benefit directly from the agro-forestry
component. Much of the rural community in those same areas would also benefit
from improved socio-economic infrastructure and services. Finally, future
generations in RondOnia would benefit from actions taken now to arrest
deforestation and degradation of the state's natural resource base and
biogenetic diversity.
3.62        Economic and Financial Benefits.  The main impact of the project
would be a significant reduction in the rate of destruction of RondOnia's
remaining natural rain forest. Techniques for accounting and quantification
of environmental benefits are still at a very rudimentary stage of
development, and this project does not lend itself to conventional economic
rate of return analysis. Although some activities would generate benefits in
the form of incremental income to beneficiaries over the life of the project,
most project investments would yield benefits in the form of foregone economic
losses (mainly from arresting the rate of deforestation, soil degradation,
etc.), protection of Amerindian groups and preservation of biogenetic
diversity.



- 39 -
3.63        Although an economic rate of return has not been calculated, some
indicative estimates have been made of: (a) the value of the rain forest
which, ae a result of the project, would not be lost; (b) the value of the
non-wood products which might be obtained from sustainable extractive
reserves; and (c) the benefits which could accrue to project farmers as a
result of investments in the enrichment of secondary growth/forest fallow
under the agro-forestry component of the project. Using conservative
assumptions, the estimated present value of wood not lost to deforestation and
burning as a result of project activities amounts to US$420 million over a
ten-year period (Annex 3). For the non-wood extractive reserve component,
recent valuation in a similar area of the Amazon Basin in Peru estimated
annual revenues from fruits and latex at $420/ha/year. Although such figures
would not be applicable to all of the 3.5 million ha of extractive reserves in
Rond8nia, they do illustrate the potentially high profitability of these
reserves (Annex 2). Finally, the project would support an intensive program
of enrichment of secondary growth/forest fallow with timber species in an
aggregate area of about 90,000 has. Using limited data available from
Rondonia, an IRR of 35% has been estimated to investments made by farmers
participating in this subcomponent (Annex 4, Table 4.2).
3.64        Fiscal Impact.  While the long-term fiscal impact of the project
would be positive, this is not likely to be the case during the years
immediately following project completion. Total recurrent costs in project
year S (i.e., the final year of project implementation) would be about US$18.0
million, equivalent to approximately 5% of the total 1990 State budget. By
full development (project years 12-15), selected project activities should
provide the State with annual incremental tax revenues at least sufficient to
cover that amount. These revenues would derive from the federal tax on the
circulation of goods (ICM) that would apply to the incremental marketable
production, and that would be retained by the State Treasury and
municipalities. However, in the first years after project completion, there
would probably be a negative gap, and the State may therefore require
continued budgetary support from the Federal Government for several years. To
a certain extent, such support would be justified given that most of the
deforestation anid other natural resource degradation in Rondonia over the last
10-15 years has been caused by heavy migration from other parts of Brazil.
Proiect Risks
3.65        Inadequate knowledge of the natural resource capabilities of the
State has resulted in the occupation of lands with little or no sustainable
deveiopment potential, accompanied by rapid deforestation and resource
depletion. However, given current technical knowledge, particularly the
availability of agro-ecological zoning, and improved Government commitment,
the prospects for achieving sustainable agricultural and extractive
development, and environmental preservation, in Rondonia are much better today
than in the past. Agro-ecological zoning provides a rational basis for
development planning and administration, and is already leading to the
establishment of critical conservation units and additional forest and
Amerindian reserves. The Government's commitment to comply with the zoning
recommendations in its investment programming would reduce the risk of
continued occupation of areas without sustainable potential.



- 40 -
3.66        The legal establishment of most of the critical conservation units
has already taken place during project preparation, and the project would
provide substantial support for the border demarcation of these units and
various new forest and Amerindian reserves. However, such measures would not,
by themselves, be sufficient to prevent illegal encroachment and deforestation
of these areas. Protection of environmentally fragile areas in Rondonia has
been weak in the past, both because of the economic and financial incentives
framework which often encouraged invasion, and because of the State's limited
enforcement capacity and inadequate knowledge of the situation in the field.
The various environmental policy and regulatory reforms which the Government
has undertaken in preparation for this project should help to redress the
basic incentives/disincentives problems. Those project activities designed to
intensify land use in suitable areas and to develop sustainable forms of non-
wood extractive production in areas which should remain under forest cover
would also help to reduce pressure on the forests by small, shifting
cultivators. Finally, the environmental protection subcomponent of the
project would strengthen the institutional capacity of key agencies to enforce
the State's environmental policies and legislation and to protect the borders
of its conservation units and reserves.  The field information system would
also be strengthened and supplemented by the use of satellite imagery,
permitting immediate detection of forest burning and other forms of invasion.
However, given the extensive areas to be protected, it must be recognized that
even these measures may prove inadequate to eliminate all illegal
deforestation during the project period.
3.67        The environmental policy reforms (Annex 1) instituted before the
start-up of the project, and to be maintained throughout the implementation
period, would address the most important known causes of environmental
degradation in Rond8nia, but there is always a risk that unforeseeable factors
could undermine the impact of these reforms. For instance, unexpected weather
or economic problems in other parts of Brazil could once again accelerate
spontaneous migration to the Northwest Region, unanticipated disease problems
could undermine the viability of some of the planned agricultural and qgro-
forestry activities. To mitigate these risks, appropriate monitoring and
evaluation devices are being put into place at project start-up; and an
Independent Evaluation Committee, including NGO representatives, would convene
annually to review progress and recommend corrective actions or refinements to
project strategy as necessary. NGOs would also participate in the preparation
of the project Annual Operating Plans and in the implementation of some
project activities.
3.68        Another possible risk stems from the fact that fiscal difficulties
in Brazil could lead the State Government to place severe restrictions on
staff recruitment and compensation, and this in turn could undermine the
necessary strengthening of Rondonia's relatively young environmental, land and
agro-forestry intt4tutions. This would be particularly serious, as those
institutions must bear the main burden of project implementation. During
negotiations the State of Rondonia presented an acceptable strategy to ensure
that project executing agencies would be able to recruit and retain qualified
technical and managerial staff, and the agreements reached (e.g., acceptable
personnel plans, providing for recruitment, career development and adequate
remuneration of essential staff) would be closely monitored. The project also



- 41 -
Includes considerable technical assistance and staff training to support the
development of key institutions. Bank and Federal Government supervision of
the project would be intensive throughout the project period.
3.69        Although the potential problems mentioned above should not be
minimized, the alternative of inaction would pose far greater risks.
Accelerated migration to Rond8nia did not start with POLONOROESTE. Rather,
the Program was established in 1980 to try to cope with a process which was
already underway: during the 1970s, the population of Rond8nia more than
quadrupled, socio-economic problems increased, deforestation was uncontrolled,
and the security and well-being of the State's indigenous inhabitants were
being threatened. POLONOROESTE did not succeed in reversing these trends
during the first few years, but its accomplishments have been significant, and
the Government is far better poised today to confront the enormous challenges
of reducing the inflow of migrants to the State and channelling them into
sustainable economic activities. Without active intervention, the continued
uncontrolled spread of low-cost, extensive and itinerant agricultural
production systems would eventually destroy the remaining three-fourths of
RondOnia's natural forests. The project represents a major new initiative on
the part of both the Government and the Bank to reverse this trend.



- 42 -
IV. SUMMARY aF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01        During neaotiations. the State of RondOnia nrovided asourances
(a)   it would maintain throughout the life of the project, and revise
annually, its media program to discourage migration to Rond8nia
and generate information concerning agro-ecological zoning; that
the revised program and timetable for the following year would be
sent to the Bank for review and comment by November 15 of each
year, and that the program would be implemented in accordance
therewith (para. 3.07);
(b)   Statewide agro-ecological, climatological, soil and topographic
maps of Rond8nia, all satisfactory to the Bank (at a scale of
1:50,000 for Zone 1 (1.1), 1:100,000 for Zone 1 (1.2), 1:250,000
for Zone 1 (1.3 and 1.4), 2, and 3 and 1:500,000 for Zones 4, 5
and 6) would be completed no later than December 31, 1993 and
subsequently distributed (para. 3.12)s
(c)   it would maintain the following State Conservation Units and
reserves: state ecological station Serra dos TrOs Irmaos; State
Parks of GuajarA-Mirim, Candeias and Rio Corumbiara; State
biological reserves of Rio Ouro Preto and Tragadal; State forest
reserves of Rio So Domingos, Rio Abuni, Rio Roosevelt and Rio
Madeira; and the extractive !eserve of Rio EPreto/Jacunda (paras.
3.15, 3.19 and 3.20);
(d)   (i) by June 30, 1993, it would present to the Bank for comment the
draft State Decrees establishing the following State Conservation
Units and reserves: State Parks of Serra dos Parecis and Serra dos
Reis; Extractive Reserves of Rio Pacaas Novos, Rio Novo, Sao
Miguel/Pedras Negras, Jacy ParanA and Rio Cautario; and State
Forests of the Guapor6, Mequens, Machado and Vermelho Rivers; and
(ii) by no later than September 30, 1993, it would have
established by decree, and would thereafter maintain these same
conservation units and reserves (paras. 3.19 and 3.20);
(e)   (i) the operating manual of FUNDAGRO would be satisfactorily
implemented and the provisions of the manual would not be changed
without prior Bank approval; and (ii) the performance of FUNDAGRO
would be jointly evaluated each year by the State Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) and the interinstitutional FUNDAGRO Credit
Group, referred to in the FUNDAGRO operating manual, SDR-PR and
MEPP, with the annual evaluation sent to the Bank for review by
March 31 each year (para. 3.32);
(f)   it would maintain within the State Secretariat of Planning the
Project Coordinating Unit, with structure, functions and



- 43 -
staffing - under the management of a qualified Project Director
assisted by competent staff - agreed to by the Bank (para. 3.44);
(g)   semi-annual/annual progress reports would be sent to the Bank not
later than three months after the end of each semester during the
fiscal year (para. 3.48);
(h)   it would: (i) revise and simplify all project performance
indicators and all operating procedures of the M & E unit, and
make the new system function in a manner which is satisfactory to
the Bank, by June 30, 1992; (ii) complete a baseline study of
socio-economic and environmental indicators of at least three
municipalities representative of the project area by not later
than December 31, 1992; and (iii) carry out, in a manner which is
satisfactory to the Bank, a mid-term review of the project and a
final assessment of the impact and effect of agro-ecological
zoning on the State's economic and social development, and submit
it to the Bank for review and comment no later than December 31,
1994 (para. 3.49); and
(i)   it would invite each year an Independent Evaluation Committee to
monitor, with the participation of NEFP, the implementation of the
environmental policy and regulatory reforms undertaken in
connection with the project, the compatibility of annual Federal
and State investment programs in Rond8nia with the recommendations
of the agro-ecological zoning, and the performance of the various
project components. The composition of the Committee will include
the representatives of relevant local Brazilian Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGOs), and the Government will make available to
the Bank the findings of the Committee by June 30 of each year,
starting in 1992 (para. 3.50).
4.02        Durina negotiations. the Borrower and the State of Rond8nia
2rovided assurances that:
(a)   (i) agreed environmental policy reforms would be implemented
throughout the life of the project; and (ii) the Federal and State
investment programs for Rond8nia which now take into account land
use capabilities, and ecological and agro-ecological zoning
considerations would be maintained consistent with such
considerations; and that the State would submit for Bank review
and comment by September 30 of each year, any intended update of
the investment program for the forthcoming year (para. 3.05);
(b)   (i) the registration with the DPU of the Pacaas Novos, Roosevelt,
Tubarao Latunde and Uru-eu-wau-wau Amerindian reserves would be
completed by May 31, 1992; and (ii) all necessary steps to
register such reserves with the appropriate local land registries
in Rond8nia would be taken (para. 3.23);
(c)   the annual budget proposal for the project for the next year would
be made available to the Bank for comment by August 15 of each



- 44 -
year; the Draft Annual Operating Plans (POAs), including the
physical targets, budget, staffing, training and procurement
programs for each executing agency, would be made aiailable to the
Bank by November of each preceding year, for review and comment;
the Bank would receive a copy of the final plan and budget as soon
as they have been approved, and the Government would take all
necessary measures to ensure that the project is implemented in
each year in accordance with the POAs (para. 3.46);
(d)   (i) the Special Account and the project accounts would be
maintained and audited annually according to standards and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms of reference for
the auditors would include, integ alia, detailed procedures for
the examination and verLfication of the Statements of Expenditures
for the project account.; and (iii) copies of the audit reports
would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of
each fiscal year (para. 3.51);
(e)   all computers and electronic equipment necessary for project
implementation would be procured and made available to the protsct
in a timely manner (para. 3.57);
(f)   procurement procedures would be as specified in paras 3.55-3.58;
and
(g)   health staff needed to provide efficient Amerindian health care
would be transferred, assigned or allocated to the project by June
30, 1992 (para. 3.35).
4.03        Conditions of loan effectivenegs  would be:
(a)   presentation of a satisfactory agreement between the State
Government and INCRA concerning land regularization policies and
practices to be observed in Rondonia, consistent with the
objectives of sound forest protection and management (para. 3.11);
(b)   presentation of satisfactory Operating Agreements (convAnios)
between SEPLAN-RO and each Executing Entity involved in the
lmplementation of the project (para. 3.45);
(c)   presentation of a satisfactory agreement between the Borrower
(through the SDR-PR) and Rond8nia, defining their respective
obligations for project implemerntation (para. 3.43);
(d)   formal establishment of a satisfactory State Project Coordination
Unit (para. 3.44); and
(e)   presentation of evidence that the State of Rond8nia and the
Borrower have included in their respective 1992 budgets, the
amount of US$3.5 million equivalent each, for expenditures
required in 1992 (para. 3.46).



- 45 -
4.04        Conditione of loan disbursement would bes
(a)   for the credit category of the loan the presentation of
satisfactory FUNDAGRO operating manual (para. 3.32); and
(b)   for the river transport component of the project, preparation by
the State Government of a satisfactory plan for the development of
water transport in the Madeira/Machado and Mamor6/Guapor6 river
systems, on the basis of terms of reference agreed at negotiations
(para. 3.39).
4.05        Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$167.0 million equivalent with
a term of 15 years, including a 5-year grace period.
February 27, 1992



-46-
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
RQNDONIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Environmental Policy and Regulatory Reforms and Aaro-Ecoloqical 2oninq
1.        The following environmental reform measures, most of which the
Government has already initiated, and which it would continue to implement
throughout the life of the project, are essential to ensure that future
development of the State of Rond8nia is sustainable. The policies and
regulations which have thus far been identified to address the principal
causes of accelerating deforestation in Rond8nia,i' include:
(a) institutionalization of agro-ecological zoning, which identifies and
distinguishes areas capable of sustainable development from those without
long-term development potential, defining acceptable activities by zone;
(b) reformulation of the medium-lerm State and Federal investment programs for
Rond8nia to better reflect land use capabilities, ecological and agro-
ecological zoning considerations; (c) the elimination of deforestation as a
criterion for obtaining land title, the adoption of suitable land
regularization policies and practices, and the strengthening of a State land
institute to develop and administer land policy, in accordance with the agro-
ecological zoning; (d) elimination of economic and fiscal incentives which
encourage inefficient resource allocation, non-sustainable private investment
and environmental degradation; (e) adoption of suitable policies concerning
the interdiction, delimitation, demarcation and protection of Amerindian
areas, and provision of key services to their indigenous inhabitants; and
(f) reduction of the rate of spontaneous migration to RondOnia through
dissemination of information elsewhere in Brazil, particularly in those states
from which the majority of migrants have originated, explaining the agro-
ecological zoning system and State policies on land occupation and planned
enforcement mechanisms.
2.        Aaro-Ecoloaical Zonino.  Almost all of the policy and regulatory
reforms center on the implementation of agro-ecological zoning. The agro-
ecological zoning of Rond8nia has been developed as a basic planning tool to
help improve the management of the State's natural resources. Through Decree
Law NO 3.782 of June 14, 1988 (recently converted into Complementary State Law
I/   FAO/CP, Technical Review of Northwest I, II and III Projects, March
1987; FAO.TCP/BRA 6755 Technical Assistance to Agricultural
Intensification Project in RondOnia Working Papers, November 1987;
D. Mahar, "Government Policies and Deforestation in Brazil Amazon
Region," June 1988; R. Norgaard, "The Valuation of Environmental Policy
Benefits,"  September 1988; and H. Binswanger, "Brazilian Policies that
Encourage Deforestation in the Amazon," December 1988.



-47-
ANNEXL I
Page 2 of 5
No. 52 of December 20, 1991), tb" State Government has officially determined
that the agro-ecological zoning ould regulate all future settlement and/or
other use of the territory of Rond8nia. Six basic zones are defined,
according to their natural resource base and pattern of occupation to date.
The legislation also foresees a further refinement of the zoning, especially
in those areas of highest potential for permanent agriculture, as discassed
below. Private firms would be contracted to execute the surveys necessary for
the more detailed zoning work.
3.        Rond8nia's agro-ecological zoning is based primarily on radar
imagery. This imagery is derived from side-looking airborne radar, or SLAR, a
passive microwave sensor which can penetrate the dense cloud cover over the
Amazon Basin. The radar imagery has served as the basis for studies of soils,
vegetation, geomorphology, agricultural potential, etc. The resulting
exploratory survey maps (1:1 million scale) have been good enough for basic
planning purposes, but more detailed mapping and zoning work is now needed,
and this would be supported under the project.
4.        Initially, a computer search would be conducted through INPE, the
Brazilian Space Agency, to determine the most recent cloud-free satellite
imagery available for Rond8nia. Landsat Thematic Mapper (TM) imagery would be
acquired in a digital format and processed to emphasize vegetation and
vegetation change. Palse color computer-enhanced images at a scale of
1:250,000 would be used for visual interpretation and field work. These
images would be used to construct a 1:250,000 scale mosaic which would be
mounted in the situation room of the Forest Military Police, with an overlay
to facilitate location of areas of illegal timber logging or burning.
5.        SPOT panchromatic scenes would be used as base data for semi-
detailed land capability studies in Zone 1. The Bank has already requested
SPOT Image, Toulouse France to program the SPOT satellite to systematically
acquire SPOT panchromatic coverage of Zone 1 for soils investigations. The
SPOT panchromatic data would be &cquired in digital format and re-sampled into
a 5 m x 5 m pixel format, with paper prints produced at a scale of 1:25,000
for field work in conjunction with semi-detailed land capability studies.
They would be supplemented, wherever available, by existing aerial
photography, with the size of mapping units ranging from 10 to 1,000 ha and
incorporating association. of phases of soil series. When small areas of
different soil types are identified within larger uniform areas of similar
soil characteristics, they would be covered with a sampling density of one
sample per 15-50 ha to provide representativ-e coverage. Observations would be
sited on a flexible grid and representative areas sampled following the
standards and norms established in USDA Handbook 18, Soil Survey Manual. The
fina± land capability maps would be prepared by December 31, 1993 at a scale
of 1:50,000 for those parts of Zone 1 which are most suitable for agriculture;
at a scale of 1:100,000 for somewhat less suitable areas in Zone 1; at
1:250,000 for the poorer quality soils in Zone 1 and all of Zones 2 and 3; and
1:500,000 for Zones 4-6.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
6.        The existing agro-ecological zoning, supplemented by the more
detailed studies described above, would discipline all future Federal and
State investment programs for Rond8nia. The new Constitution for Rond8nia
includes specific reference to the agro-ecological zoning in the chapter on
the organization of the State. Over the past two years the State has already
begun to implement this zoning, without serious difficulty, and has undertaken
a major publicity campaign nationwide to explain its objectives. During loan
negotiations, the General Counsels of the Federal and Rondonia State
Governments provided legal opinions concerning the agro-ecological zoning and
its enforceability, to satisfy the Bank that no additional legal measures are
needed.
7.        State and Federal Investment Programs for Rond8nia.  The
availability of cheap and abundant land has been the main factor in attracting
large numbers of migrants from Southern and Northeast Brazil to Rond8nia, but
public investments in social and economic infrastructure have also served as
important incentives (or, in their absence, disincentives) in determining
occupation patterns. Therefore, the appraisal and post-appraisal missions
reviewed with the State Secretariat of Planning a revised public investment
program, in which all state investments have been made consistent with land
use capability, ecological and agro-ecological zoning considerations. In
particular, plans for roads, facilities improvements and agricultural support
services have been eliminated in those areas where sustainable agriculture is
not possible; support for extractive reserve communities and the development
of river transportation systems have been given increased consideration; and
investments in land regularization and forest management have been augmented.
Overall, the bulk of investments would be concentrated in those areas most
suitable for sustainable development (i.e., parts of Zones 1 and 2), and where
forest cover has already been almost totally cleared. This redirection of
State investments constitutes an essential step towards changing the future
pattern of development. During negotiations, the State Government provided
assurances that its investment program would be maintained consistent with
land use capability, ecological and agro-ecological zoning considerations; and
that it would submit for Bank review and comment, by September 30 of each
year, any intended update of the investment program for the forthcoming year.
8.        Similarly, the appraisal and post-appraisal missions reviewed with
Federal agencies their development plans for Rond8nia, to make sure they are
consistent with the agro-ecological zoning, in particular those that effect
land occupation and deforesuation in the State. The National Institute for
Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA) would suspend plans for new
colonization projects in unsuitable zones; would ensure that its agrarian
reform program within Zone 1 favors ownership patterns appropriate for
sustainable agriculture; and would support the State in the establishment of
extractive communities and other critical land-related activities. The
Brazilian Institute for the Environment (IBAMA) would rationalize forest
reserves within Zone 1; help to implement plans for sustainable forest
management in Zones 4 and 5; and work closely with the Forest Military Police



-49-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
to ensure forest protection. The Federal Government also provided assurance
during negotiations that future Federal investments in Rond8nia would be
consistent with the recommendations of the agro-ecological zoning.
9.        Land Reaularization Policies.  Forest clearing has long been
practiced as an essential step towards acquiring title to land in the Amazon
Basin. Migrants in either official settlements or in invaded areas obtained
rights of possession simply by clearing the forest. Both good and poor
quality land have been deforested indiscriminately, and settlers engaging in
environmentally benign extractive activities which do not disturb the forest
(e.g., rubber tapping or gathering of Brazil nuts) are at a disadvantage.
Therefore, INCRA has adopted a new policy and supporting regulations, to the,
effect that tree clearing would no longer be acceptable evidence of land
occupation and development for the purpose of establishing claims to lance or
entitlement to other Government benefits.
10.       Establishment of a Rgnd8nia State Land Institute.  The current land
tenure situation in RondBnia is extremely diverse, reflecting officially
sponsored land settlement, uncontrolled occupation, land auctioning, land
speculation and numerous irregular transactions. Rationalization of land use
is inhibited by overlapping laws and regulations, and therefore requires a
parallel effort in land regularization/titling and the development of coherent
land use policies. A recently established Rond8nia State Land Institute would
work with INCRA, assisting in the documentation of existing tenure status in
the various zones, developing agrarian reform proposals, and demarcating
conservation units and other reserves. Administrative rules and implementing
regulations under which the State Land Institute would operate have been
reviewed and found satisfactory by the appraisal mission. Presentation of a
satisfactory agreement between the State Goverr4uent and INCRA concerning land
regularization policies and practices to be observed in Rondonia, consistent
with the objectives of sound forest management and protection, is a condition
of effectiveness of the loan for the proposed project.
11.       Official Credit and Fiscal Incentives.  Various steps are necessary
to alter private incentives so as to encourage sustainable activities, and to
increase significantly the private costs of any schemes which deplete the
State's natural resource base, including adoption of regulations to ensure
that applivaLion of official credit and fiscal incentives is consistent with
agi.-ecological zoning. Fiscal incentives for cattle ranching and
deforestation have already been suspended under the Brazilian Government's
environmental program "Nossa Natureza". Subsidized credit from the Federal
Government has, for all practical purposes, ceased at the State level, due to
the poor fiscal situation. Such limited official credit as exists would be
used in accordance with land use capabilities. Both the Federal and State
Governments have committed themselves to maintaining the suspension of fiscal
incentives for cattle ranching and deforestation in the State of Rond8nia.
They have also agreed that credit would be available only for these activities
which are consistent with the agro-ecological zoning.



-50-
Page S of 5
12.       Indioenous Policy.  The Federal and State Governments have
committed themselves to improve both protection and support to the Amerindian
communities in Rond8nia. Details are provided separately in Annex S.
13.       Discouraging Soontaneous Migration.  By the end of the 1970c the
flow of spontaneous migration to Rond8nia had already become unmanageable, and
the problem worsened appreciably by the mid-1980s. Throughout this period,
much of the official propaganda which was dieseminated, coupled with
enthusiastic reports from many settlers to their home communities in other
states, encouraged ever-increasing numbers of land-seeking migrants to come to
Rond8nia each year. The State's population grew at an average annual rate of
nearly 14% during the 1980's. In an effort to actively discourage and reduce
the rate of migration, the State Government has launched a media campaign
(using local and national radio, television and newspapers) during the last
two years to explain the agro-ecological zoning, the State's policies on land
occupation and the enforcement mechanisms which it is adopting. During
negotiations, the State provided assurances that it would maintain throughout
the life of the project, and revise annually, its media program to discourage
migration to Rond8nia and to generate information concerning agro-ecological
zoning; that the revised program and timetable for the following year would be
sent to the Bank for review and comment no later than November 15 of each
year; and that the program would be implemented in accordance therewith.



BRAZIL
RONDONA NATURAL RESOURC MANAGEMBENT PROWLS
Matrx of Main Eiom_enI PoLicy bes Meas  and Actions
Problems Reswonsmble fo            Aco  Taken Siuce Fa   entificaton                  Actions to be Taken                        MonitorableActions
mntl                        -iMansdDion (Novebe 1927
1. Inappropriate exploitation of aea       Development and State adoption of          Farther detailing of zoning and soil       Completion of more deted taps at
due to absnc   of zoning and land use      agro-ecological zoning which identfies     maps scale 1:50,000 in Zone 1 (1.1),       agreed scales by December 31, 1993.
controls.                                  lands suitable for arstinable               1:100,000 Zone 1 (1.2), 1:250,000
develomen from tos which do not            Zos 1(1.3 and 1.4), 2, and 3 and           Continmuos mitoring of compliance
have  dat potenial or wbich have special   1:500,000 Zones 4, 5 and 6.                wh zoning by  cting agaecies by
ecologial or social Indigenous             Enforcemet of zning.                       me   of satelite ime8ery to detect
resev) significance and sed to be                                                     ilegal deforestation and en_rnchint
protected. Rondfia Stat Decre 37
of June 14, 1988 and State Law N  52                                                  Cotimuous enfiorement of zoning by
of Dcember 20, 1991.                                                                  State Forest PolLcAYERON.
Yearly independen rview of
compfiane wih zoning, wth resub
avilable to Bank by Jue 30 each yea.
2. Weak           capobility at St         Creation of State of a Land Ititute to     Development of land legibltion and         No nw s_lments, or ttling of land in
level withb repect to development and      develop land policy, ovemee the             eglons toegher with INCRA                 ase  that do not ha  sutinble
enforcent of land poliy and contA          evohltio and enfobemem  ofagro-            (eent presend at negotiations)             deveopment potal as identified by
of al occation.                            ecological zoning by Law 203 of            to ensur that ell land activities in        oning. To be monitorod continualy.
Jun 20, 1938, MIRAD Reglation              the Stae are consiste with agro-
NO 069 of June 29, 19U derminivg           ecological zoning.
M D/INCRA complim wbh
Decree 4147 of Apuil 21, 1989 on
Fublic Lands, Stat Decree 4246 of
uly 7, 1989 on Land Temur.
3. Govemanent investments,                 Fne-year investment pagmra for Sate        Fedeal and State investme  progams         Yeary satellit imagry monioring
parclaly roads, attracting settlers to     rvised to be consstent with agro-          for Rond6dia to be maintained              statewide deforesaion, mew rads and
reas wihout ssaimble development           ecological zoning. Road investment         con nt with land us capability,            newly popultatd ateas.
pot nal.                                   only in appropte pats of Zon  I and        ecologcal and d  State's agro-
2.                                         ecologl zomg considerations; and
mbmision by the Stats for Bank eview                                            to,3
and comment, by September30 of each                                             00
year, of any intene update of the                                                     __
investme  progam  for the fo_h oming                                               0
year.                                                                           O .



ANNEX 1
Table 1. 1
Page 2 of 2
jig?i            Ig  il                       I
i~~~~~~L4 1Ii I*U
o                                          *1t  S   I  . 3 8  -    
Oft~~~~~~~
P               *                           .i
Ca~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



-53-
ANNEX 2
Page I of 4
BRAZIL
ROND6NIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Environmenta1 Conservation and Forest Management
Background
1.        When POLONOROESTE started in 1981, there were no specialized
institutions in Rond8nia (then still a Federal Territory) related to
environment or natural resource management. The progress achieved by the
State over the intervening ten years has been impressive, and environment and
natural resource concerns are now being reflected in the new State
Constitution and several important laws and regulations. A State Secretariat
for the Environment (SEDAM-RO) has been established, as well as a State
Forestry Institute (now also part of SEDAM-RO), a Forest Military iPolice and,
more recently, a State Institute of Land (ITERON). The State Government has
also achieved some notable successes in raising public awareness, improving
forest tax collection, controlling encroachment into Amerindian reserves and
conservation units, and reducing mercury emissions in gold mining activities.
2.        During this same period, to conserve critical ecosystems and
biodiversity, the Federal Government established four important conservation
units covering about 1.7 million ha. Although these areas have not been well
maintained, because of their isolation and the efforts of the Forest Military
Police there has been relatively little intrusion. These conservation units
are not adequate, however, to ensure conservation of samples of every major
ecosystem or the biodiversity of the entire state. With regard to gold
mining, while miners are being encouraged to recuperate the mercury ir.stead of
releasing it into the open by burning, the problem is still far from being
solved. River pollution is also increasing because of the exploitation of
cassiterite. Fishing in Rond8nia directly employs some 1,600 families. About
30 species are of commercial importance, but many of these are threatened by
excessive capture, fishing in closed seasons or closed areas, deforestation
and river pollution. Wildlife is becoming rare in Zones 1 and 2, and the
State has thus far been able to do very little to protect or manage its
wildlife resources.
3.        Forestry is an important economic activity in Rond8nia, with some
1,600 wood industries providing direct employment to about 50,000 workers.
The installed capacity of these industries is estimated at 5 million m3/year,
but efficiency is very low. Forest exploitation is selective, and, until
recently, was based essentially on only two high-value species (mahogany and
cereleira). Currently around 50 species are being utilized, which constitutes
an important step towards the rationalization of forest exploitation and the
possibility of making its management more profitable. Although forest
exploitation is theoretically carried out under contract with IBAKA and/or
SEDAM-RO, in practice there is little effective control and management plans
are not being regularly applied. There is virtually no reforestation or
resource reposition, other than through natural regeneration.



-54-                                                !
ANNX 2
Page 2 of 4
4.        Natural rubber is exported from the State almost without
transformation (production of about 10,600 MT/year as of 1985). Some other
non-wood forest products (e.g., Brazil nuts) are also exported. For some time
scientists have claimed that sustained exploitation of the non-wood products
of natural humid tropical forests could provide a comparatively higher
economic return to the local population than either logging or traditional
agricultural and ranching activities, aid this concept is now also being
accepted by important sectors of organized local groups. As a consequence,
Brazil has developed the legal framework for extractive reserves; the first
two were established in Acre and a third (Rio Preto/Rio Jacund&) was
established in Rond8nia in 1989.
Subcomponent Objectives and Scove
S.        The environmental conservation and forest management activities of
the project would be a logical follow-up to previous Bank involvement in
RondOnia, and would complement other project components. Activities would be
develcped mainly in Zones 4, 5 and 6, which are currently covered by natural
forests and which should remain that way, given their soil characteristics and
general ecological fragility. The component would: (a) guarantee the
conservation of the natural ecosystems and biodiversity of the State through
the establishment and development of an integrated system of Federal, State
and municipal conservation units; (b) help reduce the levels of water
pollution by mining and industry; (c) test the feasibility of sustainable
options for the economic utilization of natural forests; (d) conserve
fisheries and wildlife resources; and (e) strengthen the State's institutional
capacity to plan, execute and evaluate environmental and natural resource
management activities.
6.        The specific subcomponents would include:" (a) Conservation Unitas
establishment and implementation of 13 State and Municipal Conservation Units
covering about 1,133,000 ha and rehabilitation of four existing Federal
Conservation Units covering 1,633,000 ha (Table 2.2); (b) Enyirornmental
Protection: (i) strengthening the border enforcement of all Conservation
Units, Forest and Extractive Reserves, and Amerindian Reserves in Rond8nial
(ii) water pollution monitoring, iricluding the construction and operation of a
water quality control laboratory; (iii) registration, licensing and control of
key polluting activities; and (iv) promotion and aupervision of fishing
activities and wildlife conservation; (c) Extractive Reserves: establishment
and implementation of 6 Extractive Reserves covering 3,400,000 ha, including
the development of one pilot project (Table 2.3); (d) Forest Management:
(i) establishment and protection of eight State Forests covering 1,826,000 ha,
and the development of a pilot scheme to test the feasibility of sustainable
operations in the So Domingos State Forest; (ii) consolidation of two
existing National Forests covering 505,000 ha; (iii) protection and
development of 23 Block Reserves in settlement areas and development of a
pilot project in the Machadinho Block Reserve (Table 2.3); (lv) promotion and
supervision of forest activities; and (v) a study of the long-term supply of
wood in Zones 1 and 2, and preparation of a medium- and long-term State Forest
1/   The suboomponent for Support to Amerindian communiies in discussed separately in Annex S.



-55-
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 4
Development Plan; (e) Trainina and Dissemination of Public Informations (i) 12
short courses in environmental protection; (ii) establishment of a forestry
specialization at the Ji-Paran& Technical School of Agriculture; (iii) two
intensive courses for university-trained staff in Forest and Conservation Unit
Management and Agro-Forestry; (iv) six Master of Science fellowships and six
internships; and (v) environmental education and social awareness campaigns.
Because of its innovative nature, the planned establishment of extractive
reserves for non-wood products is discussed in more detail below.
7.        Sustainable Forest Management of Non-Wood Products (Extractive
Reserves. ITERON would demarcate the reserves and extend use rights to the
approximately 2,400 families of extractivists and riverine inhabitants of
these areas. Each reserve would have the physical facilities and staff for
land registration and technical assistance activities and the operation of
seedling nurseries for species enrichment.
8.        Several species of plants and trees do have demand in the local,
regional, national and, occasionally, international markets. Around 30
products are being collected for commercial sale, including rubber latex,
fruits for food and colorants, petioles and stems for fiber, barks fwr
tanning, seeds for oil, roots for poisons, resin for medicine, etc. Each
rubber tapper currently obtains between 2,000 and 4,000 kg of rubber per year,
working on 300 to 500 ha. For exploitation of rubber trees alone, the
extractive reserves could support twice the number of families living in the
area. Clearly, improved input supply, processing and marketing would further
enhance the prc..itability of operations. In addition, extractivists may
manage fisheries resources in their areas.  In the medium term, other
opportunities would be considered among the many that exist (orchids,
ornamental plants, medicinal plants, insects for museums and collectors,
etc.).
9.        One of the six extractive reserves would be developed as a pilot
project. In addition to the infrastructure and staff needed for all the
reserves, this one would have a special research program in the areas of
sustainable production (regeneration, forest inventories, new species of
commercial interest, models for management and extraction), ecology
(ecological impact of operations), social conditions (load capacity, education
and health care needs), and economic issues (markets and prices, processing,
credit alternatives). Extractive workers would be organized by SEDAM-RO and
NGOs into associations for production, processing and marketing of their
products. Partial studies already exist for the development of this pilot
project.
Benefits
10.       Several of the environmental components are difficult to value in
economic terms and/or do not result in moretary flows that can be directly
tapped. For example, the strict protection of almost 2.8 million ha of
tropical forests, located mostly in the upper and mid-watersheds of the State,
is clearly essential for the current and future supply of water for energy and
for industry, as well as for urban consumption. The Conservation Units would
ensure the grality and regularity of water flows. They would not, however,



-56-
Page 4 of 4
generate revenues directly, unless one were to apply a percentage of the urban
water or energy tariff to the volume of water produced yearly in the protected
area. Conservation units would also produce other goods and benefits, such as
genetic resources for agriculture and forestry, scientific information, soil
conservation, recycling of atmospheric gases affecting global climate,
biomedical resources and other phytochemicals, opportunities for tourism
development and recreational activities, etc. Finally, the valuation of
Conservation Units wnuld involve ethical considerations concerning the
relative importance which should be assigned to the conservation of samples of
the unique natural heritage of Brazil.
11.       For extractive reserves, valuation is also difficult due to the
lack of information and experience.  In 1980, the officially recorded value of
non-wood vegetable products from the States of Acre, Rond8nia and Amapa,
totalled US$48 million. These statistics capture only part of the production
of a few goods exported to other regions or countries (mainly rubber and
Brazil nuts), since most of the present extractive production is consumed
locally. A valuation?/ of an extractive area near Iquitos, Peru, showed
yearly fruit production of US$650/ha and annual rubber yields of about
US$50/ha. After deducting costs associated with collection and transport, net
annual revenues were about US$422. The authors estimated the net present
value at US$6,330/ha over a 15-year period. Of course, such results would not
be applicable to the entire 3.5 million ha of extractive reserves to be
established in Rond8nia, but they are indicative of the potentially high
economic profitability of the extractive reserves.
12.       The component would benefit directly the following segments of the
population of Rondonia; (a) 2,400 families of extractivists, currently living
in poor and insecure conditions; (b) 900 families engaged in fishing as a main
source of income, on which they make their living; and (c) 5,000 - 6,000
Amerindians, whose lands would be better protected from encroachment because
of the conservation units, national and state forests and extractive reserves,
which would act as buffer zones for the Amerindian reserves.
13.       More generally, the entire population of the State would benefit
directly or indirectlv from a significant improvement of the quality of life,
inctud!.ng the assurance of a future supply of clean water, forest goods and
services, clean air, adequate fish and wildlife, sites appropriate for
recreation, sports and tourism development. The rich biodiversity of the
State and its very important genetic resources would also be preserved.
ai   Peters, C.M., A.H. Gentry and R.O. Mendelsohn, 1989. Valuation of an Amazonian Rainforest. Nature 339:655-
656 (1989).



BRAZIL
OOIA NAIU?AL OSSOURCE MANACEMET PROJECT
LUNSAT Surveys of Forest Clearin2-In the Brattllan ALsion
-      -.                                         _           _   _   _    _  _  _ _ - -   _ _  _  _ _       -    -   
Poreont of Stat. or TerrItory
Area Cleared  (l*2)                               Clase) led as Clear
State or     Area of State or                                              --
Territory    Torrltory  (K2)    By 1976        By 1979     By 1ow       By 1983      By 1976     By 1978       or 98         By 198
Amapa             146,278           162.3        1".$       193.7         571.3         O.i         .1           e.1          6.4
Para            1,240,642         9,654.0    22,446.3   33,913.,    120,6".6           O.?          0.8           2.7           9.6
Rereles           230,104           65.6         14368      278.1       8,276.9        O.t          6.1           0.1           1.4
Maranhao          267,461         2,940.8      7,334.0   10,871.1      60,679.6         1.1         2.8           4.1          19.7
Coles             286,793         3,667.8    10,283.6   11,469.6       38,126.6         1.2         3.6           4.9          11.6
Acre              162,680         1,165.6      2,484.6    4,828.8      19,569.0        e.g          1.e           a.e         12.8
Rondonla          243,044         1,210.6     4,184.5    7,579.3       68,08 0         6.3          1.7           8.1          23.7
Mate  reaoses     98l,01         10,124.8    28,355.0   53,299.3    209,66.9            1.1         3.2           0.1          23.8
Amazonas        1,567,126           779.6      1,706.6    3,192.2     lim,790.0        0.1          0.1           0.2          6.8
Logal Amaon      6,696,426       2",69S.8    77,171.8  126,17.9    69",021.6           6.6          1.6           2.S          12.60
Souwres  Farnldo  (I986) afd8 I0 ettimates



-58-
Table 2.2
ROND8NHA  ATURALRSOU     MANAEMENT PROJECT
PaderAl. Statt and MUniginlR Conservation Units
UNIT                       MUNICIPALITIES  PERIMETER (km)   AREA (ha)
A.FEDERAL CONSERVATION UNITS )j                                               1.632.725
national Parke
Pacaas Novoe                          Guajar&-Mirim               515     664,575
BLoloical Rteerveg
Guapor6                               Costa Marques and
Alta Floresta              410     600,000
Jaru                                  Ji-Parana                   245     268,150
Ecological Station
cunia                                 Porto Velho                 185     100,000
B. STATE CONSERVATION UNXTS                                                   1.132.500
Stat2 Parky
GuajarL-Mirim 2.1                     Guajar&-Mirim               310     220,000
Serra dos Parecis L                   Alta Floresta                70      28,000
Candeias 2J                           Porto Velho                  40      16,000
Serra doe Reis 1/                     Costa Marques                70       8,000
Rio Corumb,ara 2/                     Cerejeira                   500      62,600
State Hiolo2ical Reserves
Ouro Preto                            Guajar4-Mirim               160      76,000
Tracadal                              Guajar&-Mirim                50      22,500
State Ecolocaical Reserve
Serra TrOe Irm5os 2/                  Porto Velho                 181      13,600
C. MUNICIPAL CONSERVATION UNITS
4uniciioal Nature Pak s                                               600 - 2,400
Porto Velho                           Porto Velho                 400
Colorado d'Oeste                      Colorado
Rolim de Moura                        Rolim de Moura
Vilhena                               Vilhona
Ji-Parana                             Ji-Paran&
/  Federal Conservation Units already created and implanted.  Only the Cuni& unit
has not yet been formally established.
3]   State conservation units which have been created and will be demarcated during
the first year of the project
3]   To be established by September 30, 1993.
gJ   Only the Porto Velho Municipal Nature Park has been defined.  The others will
cover from 50 to 500 hectares.



-59-
Table 2.3
RONDO9NA -NTUR --RE.SOQRCE MANAGENENT PROJECT
Natlonal and State Forests and Extractive Reserves
LOCATION                                   MUNICIPALITIES                SIZE (ha)
NATIONAL FOREST J/                                                         SOAOOO
Jamari                                Porto Velho                    225,000
Bom Futuro                            Porto Velho                    280,000
STATE FORESTS (FOR SUSTAINED YIELD)                                      1,826.000
Rio 81o Domingos 2/                   Sao Miguel do Guapor6
and Costa Marques             285,000
Rio Guapor& 3/                        Costa Marques                  283,000
Rio Mequens 3/                        Alta Floresta d'Oeste          435,000
and Cerejeiras
Rio Roosevelt 2/                      Espigbo d'Oeste                 59,000
Rio Machado 3/                        Ji-Parana                      217,000
Rio Madeira 2/                        Porto Velho                    224,000
Rio Vermelho 3/                       Porto Velho                    234,000
Rio Abufia 2/                         Porto Velho                     89,000
BLOCK RESERVES A/                                                          104,703
Urupa Settlement Project              Ouro Preto d'Oeste              21,557
(two areas)
Machadinho Settlement Project         Ariquemes and Jaru              68,448
(17 area.)
Cujubim Settlement Project            Ariquemes                       14,698
(four areas)
EXTRACTIVE RESERVES                                                      3.382.00Q
Rio Pacaas NovoB and Rio Novo                                        380,000
Rio Cautario /                                                       198,000
Rio S&o Miguel/Pedras Negras 3/                                      198,000
Rio Jacy Paran&/Mutum Paran& J/                                    1,493,000
Rio Preto/Jacund& 2.1                                              1,038,000
J1/ Created, one settled and demarcated.
2/   Created and to be demarcated during first year of the project.
_/   To be established by September 30, 1993.
4/   Created and demarcated, not implanted.



-60-
ANNX 3
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
ROND8NIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAQEMENT PROJECT
Valuation of Forest Destruction in Rond8nial
1.        An exact estimate of the cost of the destruction of Rond8nia's
natural rain forest is not possible. An exercise has been carried out which
attempts to derive a minimum value and then to demonstrate that even that
minimum value is still clearly so high that substantial expenditures for
forest conservation would be economically justifiable.
Assumptions
2.        Items Included and Excluded in Valuation.  The only value which is
specifically taken into account is the value of the trees which are lost
through "rational highgrading", a process whereby only the most commercially
valuable trees are removed from the forest. Due to the large number of tree
species in the Amazon, distances between trees of the same species are usually
great. The deliberate removal of a few particular species, therefore, makes
it difficult for them to regenerate naturally.
3.        This valuation does not include any of the values of: (a) the
remaining wood in the highgraded forest; (b) the long-term potential for wood
production through sustainable timber management; (c) the soils saved that
could, in future, support plantation forests or other forms of permanent
agriculture; (d) the other extractive products (e.g., fruita, nuts, game,
etc.) lost when forests are destroyed; (e) the reduction of downstream
siltation and its impact on fisheries and on flooding of developed land;
(f) the maintenance of biological diversity; or (g) possible reductions in
global climate change.
4.        Rate of Deforestation.  There is considerable debate as to the
actual rate of deforestation in Rond8nia, which complicates the task of
calculating the value of the losses. World Bank estimatas (Annex 2,
Table 2.1) suggest that the average annual rate over the past five years has
been about 887,000 ha. A study by the Brazilian Institute of Forestry
Development (IBDF), based on satellite records of actual fires, indicates that
the figure may be even higher. The study estimates that 18.7% of Rond8nia's
24.3 million ha burned in 1987 and that 40% of this area, or about 1.8 million
ha, was natural forest. For the purpose of this analysis, however, a very
conservative deforestation rate of only 500,000 ha p.a. is used.
i/ Based on working paper by Mr. Richard B. Norgaard (consultant), "The
Valuation of Environmental Policy Benefits", October 1988.



-61-
ANEX 3
Page 2 of 4
5.        Present Extent of Deforestation.  There is also considerable
disagreement as to the extent of deforestation which has already taken place
in Rond8nia. The World Bank estimate indicates that 24% of the State's
forested areas had been cleared by 1988, while many in Rond8nia place the
figure at between 16% and 20%. The problem stems from the fact that it is
often difficult to distinguish old secondary growth (caDoeira) from natural
forests, and because the various sources classify already highgraded forests
and naturally unforested areas (e.g., natural pasture, marshlands, etc.)
differently. Nevertheless, deforestation clearly has an upper limit. If, for
example, Rondonia were already 90% deforested, the annual rate of new
deforestation would necessarily have to decrease rapidly. For the purposes of
this valuation, it is therefore assumed that this upper limit phenomenon is
already taking place. Thus, the volume of deforestation is assumed to be
decreasing by 50,000 ha, per year (i.e., deforestation in Year 1 would be
500,000 ha; 450,000 ha in Year 2; 400,000 in Year 3; etc.).
6.        Marketable Wood.  One hectare of forest in Rond8nia has
approximately 80 m3 of wood of a size suitable for milling, when all of
several hundred species are considered. Up to 30 r? of select woods, such as
mahogany, are sometimes found in a single hectare. The market for tropical
hardwoods from Latin America is expected to develop during the coming decade,
as Southeast Asian forests become depleted and the capital and technologies
used there are brought to Latin America. By way of illustration, the firm
which logged commercial timber from the area of the Samuel hydroelectric
project in northeastern Rond8nia harvested 31 species for export to Asia, but
extracted only 3 m3/ha on average because it operated under great time
pressure and therefore selected only the largest trees in one pass. Given the
expected increase in tropical hardwood prices, it is reasonably conservative
to assume that 4 m3 could be highgraded the first year an area is exploited,
and that an additional 2i m3 could be extracted from that same area afte a 10
year interval. At an 8% discount rate, the present quantity equivalent is 5
m3.
7.        Stumpaae Value of Wood.  Sawmills in Rondonia pay only about
US$10/m3 for a few select species. On the other hand, the firm with the
Samuel contract (para. 6) received US$120/m3 after the trees have been
identified, cut, hauled to the roadside, brought to the river, floated to
itacoatiare (Amazonas) and loaded onto a freighter. Cutting and initial
hauAing costs are reportedly about US$20/m3; river transport, US$17/m3;
identification, road hauling, ship loading and administration, US$23/m3 -- or
a total of US$60/m3, which leaves a stumpage value of US$60/m3.  Although this
is likely to increase significantly over the cominy decade, for the purposes
of this valuation a stumpage value of only US$50/m is used.
8.        Existing Salvaae Levels.  At this time, approximately 1.5 million m3
of wood are transformed each year into lumber in Rond8nia, with most of the
logs coming from land which is going (at least temporarily) into agricultural
production. This suggests that those who are clearing the land are already
salvaging perhaps 1 m /ha, or 20% of what would be possible from "rational



-62-
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
highgrading". Again, to be conservative, salvage is estimated at 25% in this
analysis.
9.        Discount Rate.  It is arguable that positive discount rates and
sustainability are incompatible concepts. If preservation of Rond8nia's
natural rain forest is an objective, then it makes little sense to ses a
discount rate. On the other hand, if one assumes that Rond8nia could consider
alternatives to preservation (i.e., theoretically the State might have the
option of marketing its timber, investing the proceeds in some industrial
activity, and competing successfully in world markets), the coets and benefits
of the various options should be discounted to obtain their net present value.
For the purposes of this exercise, a discount rate of 8 is assumed.
Results
10.       The value of the "highgradable" wood lost in the first year of
deforestation would be:
500,000 ha x 5m3 x US$50/m3 x 0.75 = US$93.75 million
If the deforested acreage were reduced by 50,000 annually, and applying an 8%
discount rate to each year's value, the net Dresent value of the wood lost
through deforestation in Rond8nia over a ten-year period would be about USS417
million.
InterRretation
11.       The above estimate is very conservative in all respects.  Yet it is
certainly high enough to justify spending considerably more cn environmental
policy changes and forest protection, as well as on additional efforts to
develop sustainable economic opportunities in the already deforested areas of
good soils in Rond8nia (as well as in Southern Brazil and elsewhere in the
country), in order . keep settlers from clearing trees from land which is
inappropriate for agriculture.
12.       At the same time, the above estimate is so conservative that it is
also appropriate to ponder how low it might really be. The multipliers in the
table on the next page, which are each associated with specific factors, could
be applied to increase the valuation results. Whether or not one would apply
all of the multipliers together, or leave several of them at the lower levels
used ia this valuation, would be a matter of judgment, depending on the
circumstances prevailing at any given time.



-63-
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
Multipliers for Adiustina the Conservative
Estimate to Different Assumptions
Factors                                                 Adiustment Multiplier
Moderate
1. Both the rate of deforestation (para. 4) and the
decline in the rate used (para. 5) are so low
that only an additional 2.5 million ha, or 10%
of the State, are presumed to be deforested in
future, whereas approximately 75%-80% of the
State is stIll forested. The following
adjustments might be considered:
(a) Let the ini"ial rate be 1.5 million ha p.a.,
and let the annual decline rate equal
100,000 ha, resulting in an additional
7.5 million of deforestation.                          4
Or, alternatively:
(b) Let the initial rate be 1.0 million ha
p.a., for 15 years, resulting in an
additional 15 million ha of deforestation.                            8
2. If no discount factor were used.                            1.5           2
3. New technologies could result in an increase
in the number of species harvested and, hence,
in cubic meters of extraction per hectare.                 2              5
4. A doubling (reasonable) or tripling (high) of
market prices would increase the stumpage value
more than proportionately, since it is a
residual.                                                   2.5           5



-64-
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
BRAZ IL
RONDONIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Forest Fallow Management Proaram
1.        The following discussion focuses on the innovative fallow
enrichment program which would be implemented under the agro-forestry
development component of the project.
2.        The main objectives of the program would be to recuperate the vast
area currently under fallow I/ in Zones 1 and 2, through a productive
exploitation system; provide farmers with an effective and practical option
for diversification; redace the pressure on forest clearing; and train farmers
in better soil and fallow management. The fallow enrichment program would
comprise two basic lines of action: (a) enrichment of forest fallow with' soil
improving crops in order to reduce the fallow period, maintain/recuperate soil
fertility and facilitate land preparation for replanting in fallow area; and
(b) planting of trees In the fallow area for timber and for soil recuperation.
3.        The total forest fallow area of Zones 1 and 2 is about 2.5 million
ha (approximately equal to more than half the area of the Netherlands).
SEDAM-RO is already carrying out limited fallow enrichment activities in some
municipalities, on the basis of persuasion and without any credit financing.
Under the project, SEDAM-Ru would train about 230 EMATER-RO extensionists in
fallow enrichment techniques. Together with about 50 SEDAM-RO agents, these
extensionists would eventually handle some 600 ha each. Currently some
enterprises are interested in, or are already planting, tree plantations,
mostly with bandarra for plywood, but also with cedro and other species.  Many
small farmers also plant or interplant their principal crops with freiio
because it is suitable for honey production, which can be quite remunerative.
It is expected that, due to the project, the fallow enrichment program would
e:zpand at a yearly rate of about 150-200,000 ha, over a 10-15 year period.
4.        Improved management and enrichment of fallow would help in
controlling regrowth after harvesting. It would be achieved by: (a) fostering
the use of leguminous cover crops which recuperate fertility and achieve
fallow clearance without burning; and (b) planting tree species which
recuperate soil fertility, produce organic material and suppress unwanted
secondary growth. Cover crops now in use include Pueraria, Desmodium,
Canavallia in most soils and Glericidium and Leucaena in good soils. Project-
financed research would support further testing of other tree crops such as
Inoa (common in the project area and planted before harvest in cutting and in
cutting and in hedges after harvest) and arbustive legume crops for fertility
recuperation and mulching, such as Theophosia and Flemingia.
./   Fallow is defined as the total area left unused after deforestation and
annual cropping, as well as pasture which has been abandoned due to
mismanagement.



-65-
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
The tree species to be planted for timber and soil fertility
recuperation include:
Local Name          Scientific Name   Primary Use
Cerejeira           (Torresia)         timber
Mogno                (Sivietania)      high-quality timber (mahogany)
Cedro                (Cedrela)         timber
Freijo               (Cordia)          timber, honey production
Bandarra            (Schizolobium)    plywood
Caroba              (Jacaranda)        timber
Ipes                (Tabebuya)         mainly fence posts
Castanha            (Bertholetta)      timber and nuts
6.        By use of appropriate fallow management and enrichment techniques
(i.e., proper cLopping mix, soil enriching shadow trees, and proper
interplanting of shadow and timber trees), it would be less expensive for the
farmers to clear forest fallow land than to clear natural forest, while still
maintaining good soil fertility. Additional incentives to the small farmer to
use fallow rather than natural forest land would include the possibility of
preparing the land for animal traction, which is very important for the small
farmer, and the timely interplanting of trees and planting of hedges for
mulching. Lack of adequate technical assistance and credit have prevented the
dissemination of these practices, which could improve crop yields and are
sustainable over time (in contrast to deforestation of new land, where soil
fertility decreases after only a few years).
7.        The costs and revenues from fallow enrichment are detailed in Table
4.1.  The estimated financial internal rate of return for the average proxy
crop would be about 35%. For moono (mahogany) the rate of return would be
much higher. The calculations are based on the field experience of SEDAN-RO's
forestry technicians. Even if costs were 50% higher and yields 22% lower, the
financial IRR would remain at 12%.



-66-
ANNEX 4
Table 4.1
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
RONDONIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculations of Fallow Enrichment
I. COST ESTIMATES 1/
Y ESA R S
Unit   1      2       3      4   1Sj2/       16
Opening penetration paths  lbd    1           -       -       -           -
Preparation of planting
material 3/                 n     1              -      _        _ 
Planting, including holing  "      2       -      -      -        -       -
Maintenance control paths   "      6       6      4      2        -       -
Pruning                            -       1      1      1        -       -
Replanting                         -       1      -      -        -       -
Control pests & diseases    n      1       -      -      -        -       -
Felling/cutting 4/           n        _    _      _              10      10
Transport to farmgate        n        _    _             -        6       6
Unforeseen                         1       1      -      -        -       -
Total labor days            lbd   12       9      5      3       16      16
Total labor costs           US$   36      27     15      9       48      48
Costs of planting bags 5/  US$    8        -      -      -        -       -
Costs of chemicals
materials equipment
(a) planting                 n    30     10       -      -        -       _
(b) harvesting £/            n     -      -       -      -     600      450
Costs of hired services V/  "      -       -      -      -      500     500
TOTAL COSTS                 US$   74      37     15      9    1148      998
1/ Costs based on an average population of 100/ha.
2/ Harvest estimated to start after 15 years and carried out in two years.
3/ To be carried out on-farm by farmer.
4/ Prepared as logs for transport by truck.
_/ Polybags.
6/ Chainsaws, chains, axes, etc.
7/ Hired tractor costs or animal traction for hauling of logs to farmgate.
The labor day costs are estimated at US$3/day, being mostly family labor.



-67-
ANNEX 4
Table 4. 1
Page 2 of 2
II. REVENUES
The underlying data for revenue calculation are given belows
Period Required for      Production:            Prices/m3/NCz6
Optimal   Earliest   After 15 years        Farm      City  City
Production Production  p/tree       p/ha      Gate    Gross   Net 21
Species      Years      Years       m3        o3
Cerejeira    20-30          15    2.02       140    40-60        240       200
Mogno        25-35          15    2.02       140    40-60        550       500
Cedro        25-35          15    2.02       140    40-60        240       200
Freijo       15-25          10    2.90       290    40-60        240       200
Bandarra     15-25          15    4.40       440        20        80        40
Caroba       15-25          15    4.40       440        20        80        40
Ipes 1/      30-35          15       5      1000       1.5         _         -
posts    posts    posts
I/    For fence posts in posts/tree.
2/    The price to the farmer if he organizes his own transport to the city
estimated at US$50/m3.
The revenues will differ for each species. For broad calculations, it is
assumed that the revenues will be US$200/m3 for a harvest of 140 m3., and
received as NCr$14,000.- in Years 15 and 16. The conversion in US$ is made at
a rate of 2.65 NCr$l./USS, the existing rate at appraisal, as are the sale
prices as of August 189.
III. RATE OF RETURN
N P V
YEAR             EXPENSES       REVENUES        BhANCE           AT 35%
USS
1                     74               -           -743             -S5
2                      31              -             -37            -20
3                     15               -             -15             -6
4                       9              -              -9             -2
5-14                   5               -               0
15                 1,148           5,280         -4,312             +46
16                   998           5,280         +4,282             +35
TOTAL              2,281          10,560               -             -2
The IRR is 35.29%.  Its timber prices or yields would crop 22% or costs would
rise by 50% the IRR would be 12%.



-68-
ANl¢X 5
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
ROND8NIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Support to Amerindian Communities
Background
1.        The indigenous population of Rond8nia and adjacent Amazonian states
is highly vulnerable in the face of the expansion of the Brazilian frontier.
Organized on a tribal basis, and with no centralized political institutions,
they subsist by slash-and-burn cultivation, hunting, fishing and gathering.
Many were contacted only very recently, and some have yet to enter into
permanent contact. A majority of the Amerindians of Rond8nia speak little or
no Portuguese, possess neither literacy nor numeracy, and have very little
familiarity with official Brazilian institutions. In addition, they are at
high risk to introduced disease, especially influenza, the common cold,
measles, tuberculosis and malaria. Although some Amerindians have ties to the
regional economy as rubber tappers, or through the sale of handicrafts, in
general their social, economic and medical traditions do not prepare them for
close interaction with Brazilian society.
2.        As a result of earlier special projects, in particular
POLONOROESTE, 12 Amerindian reservations covering a total of 4.5 million ha
have been demarcated in Rondonia (including three which straddle the border
with Mato Grosso, but are administered from Rondonia), equal to 92% of the
total area which the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI) has identified as
being Amerindian land (Table 5.1). In terms of population, about 90% of the
known Amerindian population of the State lives in these reservations. Most of
the Amerindian reservations have administrative posts, health posts,
residences for PUNA! employees, vehicles, boats and farm implements acquired
through the special project funding.
3.        Despite the rapid occupation of Rondonia, FUNAI has also identified
several Indian groups which have not yet been officially contacted or maintain
only sporadic contact. The FUNAI unit for uncontacted Amerindians has
evidence concerning 14 such groups, although there may be more (Table 5.2).
4.        Over the past two decades, the most serious problem for the
Amerindian population of Rond8nia has been the speed with which the State has
been occupied or invaded by settlers. FUNAI has constitutional and statutory
responsibility for Indian affairs in Brazil. Although FUNAI has many highly
dedicated staff, as a whole the agency has not been effective in dealing with
the threats to land security and health in the Amerindian areas. FUNAI's
budget has been reduced in real terms and it has undergone many changes in
leadership. Nonetheless, the agency traditionally resisted accepting
assistance from other government entities and was reluctant to implement its
own 1986 decentralization plan, which delegated more authority to the regional
level.



!
-69-
ANNEX S
Page 2 of 3
Support to Amerindian Communities Subcomponent
5.        In a major departure from past positions, FUNAI has agreed to
cooperate with and accept assistance from other agencies, and the Brazilian
Government has requested Bank financing for a special Amerindian subcomponent
under the proposed RondOnia Natural Resource Management Project. FUNAI's
Second Regional Superintendence (SUER), based in Cuiab&, was given the task of
designing the proposal for the subcomponent.
6.        The objective of the Amerindian subcomponent would be to help
protect the indigenous population of Rond8nia from the effects of rapid
migration to the State. It would be carried out by FUNAI, the State of
Rond8nia and other agencies, and would include four broad categories of
activities: (a) demarcation of Amerindian lands and renewal of sections of the
boundaries of some existing reservatior.s; (b) support for special FUNAI teams
seeking to locate and identify isolated Amerindian groups in the State; (c)
upgrading of the protection of Amerindian areas; and (d) improvements in the
health programs serving the Amerindian population.
7.        Since FUNAI's SUER is headquartered more than 1,200 kms away in
Cuiaba, a small management team would be based in Porto Velho to administer
the subcomponent. The team would consist of a specialist in indigenous
affairs from the UNDP Technical Assistance Program, two indigenists seconded
by FUNAI, and two specialists from the State of Rondonia, supported by
specialized consultants as necessary. The management team would travel
extensively and engage in a dialogue with the Amerindians in each community,
in order to form a plan for development and improvement which reflects the
long-term interests and concerns of the community. The team would play a
catalytic role, mobilizing and coordinating the resources of FUNAI and other
agencies to assist the Amerindian communities; the specific tasks may exceed
the scope of this project, with financing secured from other sources.
8.        Demar, tion.  Most of the Amerindian areas in Rond8nia have already
been legally deiaarcated, although some of these are still awaiting
registration with the appropriate local land registry and the Federal Property
Registry (Servigo do Patrim8nio da Uni&o. SPU). Highest priority would be
given to the demarcation of four areas which have been identified and are
awaiting further action (Table 5.1). The project would also provide for the
demarcation of up to five additional areas inhabited by uncontacted
Amerindians who have yet to be formally identified by FUNAI (para. 9).
Finally, where it is necessary to clarify the location of some boundaries
which have already been demarcated, to eliminate any pretext for invasion of
the reseivations, topographic markers wold be located and forest cleared to a
width of six meters. Bamboo or other perennial species would be planted in
these swaths to prevent forest regrowth from obliterating them.
9.        Uncontacted Indians.  Two additional FUNAI teams would be
established to work on contacting the remaining, isolated Amerindian groups in
Rond8nia. After locating the groups, the teamz would endeavor to provide
basic eervices for their protection (mainly vaccination, other medical care



-70-
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
and determination of territorial limits). It is expected that, for up to four
such Amerindian areas, the full process of identification, delimitation,
anthropological survey, presentation to the Interministerial Group (GTI
94.945/87) and demarcation would be completed.
10.       Monitoring and Protection.  Most of the Amerindian areas of the
State have been subject to invasion and illegal poaching, in varying degrees.
As part of the agro-ecological zoning of the State, the Amerindian reserves
would be integrated into a unified system of protection which also includes
national, State and municipal parks, biological reserves and ecological
stations, national and State forests and forest block reserves, and extractive
reserves. In this context, the State of Rond8nia and the National Institute
for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources (IBAMA) have signed an
agreement with FUNAI to exchange information and coordinate their monitoring
and enforcement activities. For the first time, the State Forest Military
Police would be authorized to police Amerindian areas, to suppress illegal
activities and apprehend timber poachers, and resources would be provided
under the project to support them in this work. FUNAI would also receive
assistance, including construction of advance guard posts in high risk areas
on the reservations, and the establishment of mobile monitoring teams.
Finally, under the education subcomponent of the project (para. 3.35 of the
main text), information would be prepared and disseminated on indigenous
legislation and the protection of Amerindian reservations.
11.       Health Services.  Health conditions in many Amerindian areas have
deteriorated due to increased exposure to disease vectors and the
ineffectiveness of FUNAI health services. FUNAI'a regional health facilities
have been strained to the limits by Indians seeking treatment for diseases
which could have been treated more effectively in their villages; medical
record-keeping and control over supplies is poor; and many FUNAI staff have
been unable to go to the field for lack of vehicles and budget.
12.       To remedy this situation, the project would support activities to:
(a) strengthen FUNAI's regional mobile health teams (EVS); (b) construct and
operate four specialized infirmaries annexed to the existing State hospitals
to provide acute care for Amerindian patients; and (c) support for medical
consultations and tests on a referral basis by the EVS, and medical supplies
needed by or for use in the residential facility (casa do £ndio) for extended
ambulatory care. Finally, a specialized consulting team with experience in
indigenous medicine w"uld design and supervise the implementation of a
streamlined health system in the Amerindian reservations in Rond8nia,
including a computerized medical record system and a standardized pharmacy
with effective control over medications and other supplies.



BRAZIL
RONDONIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Indigenous Areas Alreadv Demarcated and
Identified for Demarcation in Rondbnia
INDIGENOUS AREAS IM RONDONIA, ALREADY DENARCATED
INDIGENOUS AREA                  ETHNIC GROUP              PoP    LAND AREA        fPlR nL          DEL     GRP     OMC      HXL     CRI     SPU
ARIPUAKA(PARQUE INDIG.)'         CINTA LARGA                104     938200          800    99       78       0       85      89      87       87
IGARAPE LAGE                     PAKAA-NOVA(ORO-UAR1)      252      107321          152    76       99      99      77       99      99      81
IGARAPE LOURDES                  GAVIAO, ARARAS            450      185534          271    76       99      99      77       85      85      99
IGARAPE RIBEIRAO                 PAKAA NOVA(ORO-UAR1)      110       47863           96    76       99      99      77       99       0      81
KARITIANA                        KARITIANA                  129      89862          125    79       86      84       80      86       0        0
PACAA NOVAS                      PAKAA-NOVA(ORO-UARI)      491      279906          304    75       99      84       76      91       0        0
RIO BRANCO                       KACURAP,TUPARI,ARUA,      206      236147          200    82       82      86       84      86       0        0
RIO NEGRO-OCAIA                  PAKAA NOVACORO-UARI)      272      1040M           181    75       99      99       76      81      99      81
ROOSEVELT'                       CINTA LARGA, SURIJI       288      230826          322    75       74      99       86       0       0        0
SETE DE SETENBRO1                SURUI                     395      247870          205    76       99      99       85      85      85       85
TUBARAO LATUNDE                  NAMBIKUARA/AIKANA          153     116613          177    82       82      85      84       91       0        0
URUEU-YAU-UAU                    URUEU-WAU-UAU             700    1867117           865      0       0       a       86      91       0        0
TOTALS                                   3550    4451323          3698
INDIGENOUS AREAS IN RONDONIA TO BE DEMARCATED UNDER PLANAFLORO
INDIGENMouS AREA                 ETHNIC GROUP             POP      LAND AREA       PER      IDD     DEL    GMP      DMC    HML       jRI     jP_U
KARIPUNA (PANORAMA)              KARIPUNA                  20      195000          200     77        0       0      0        0       0       0
RIO GUAPORE                      PABOTI,NACURAP,CANOE     238      128196          215     86        0      85      0        0       0       0
RIO NEWUENS                      MAKURAP, SAKIRABI         51      105250          135     85       85      86      0        0       0       0
SAGARANA                         PAKAA NOVA               135        8400           42     85        0       0      0        0       0       0
TOTALS                                    444     436846          592
Area straddles border between Rondonia and Hato Grosso.
CODES:  POP=population; PMR=permfmeter; IDD=identif ed; DEL=delimited; GRP=Interministerial Group Approval;
DMC=demarcated; H1L=confirmed by decree; CKI=local land registry; SPU=federal registry; 99=action
completed, date unknown.
I(D X
u1 J1



BRAZIL
RONDONIA NATURAL RESOURCE HANAGEMENT PRO.JECT
Indigenous Areas under Investigation for
Possible Demarcation and Protection
2111DIAit ANA       PDliC car0)          PIP Om   (U) RD ISO mm  IN L SW on    I. cmRI LuSS STAtIUS                                   WCIFIC  EInt
13ICIN(Cl8Cl.fO USIIV*tS03 MUDO.                                      ,      ,          ,          oltedtal Sedimis
mmN I tL(AI1061*RO l) mm -D-titng 6&ntlflcatton                                                                                  Isolated arp
mm  II (C.PNULO SAoANNAM MI.*usl tl IdmtIlQcttlm                                                                                  Ioltexld or"
A1    III (LEf1NE11O      AtDD mm                                 -ltlg idmitd 9sic tlI soleted ala
I*oAKpt CiDDEiE alUBMA(Xill.Im@e   .t ..  .. .  ..    onetwlsem a                                                  en W I :0ted
JASOSI (RSEINAL WISDIlA) JMSI-                               to0 -Livi-g e Al   , lil-wlo                                       gOro* aWtlad Oren eweglns lteatim
UAUIP6AM 10 F     aw                                                     .Isolated uidianm. ientected
50u30 1Q10 (RIOCCQ  )    MD"  t7)              217.                                                solated craw. tmcnested
NIASSAC (EWMAPA)  NASS-...                                                                        totated vroW. umstacted
NIlUWLIOS (410 2.11SEL.  Uni                                      -        -Isolated Vsu. ucntcted
PASIut1IUII               ImiUtUIi.                                                              Liv1 Ih hI te Vlbeo             6ap expalted flm  mrlglas  l oatlen
PAAEULCNIMS                                               - UNOW                                  Isolated, Idaft. pigd 1991
P0tO FISCAL               PACWU-P                                                                 Isolated tItions
510 CAUDEIAS              CAIIIANA.                                                               Isolotedt Irdism
RIO Maui                  0619.                 --t1smtected IndIosm
SIRRA 00 IARAL  t                                        ..... ..... .. .. .. .. .. Uncentectd Inian
IUWI AWANe a             t--                                                   -                 Unc.ntected India
1U29                      UAKAIIP9IAfS0S *EIN...                                                   tmtected indias
a  I



BRAZIL
RONDONIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Annual Phasing of Project Costs by Component
(US $ millions)
Totals Including  Contingencies                lbtals Including Contingencies
US$                                         US$
'92    '93   '94   '95   '96  Total    '92   '93   '94   '95  '96  Total
A. ENVIROIRENTAL PUtAIIGEN{T
1. LAND IONING,HAPPING.ETC.       4.6    4.4    5.S    2.7    1.5   18.7        4.6    4.4    5.5    2.7    1.5   18.7
2. ENVIRoL. CONSERVATION          1.4    1.8    1.6    1.7    1.5    8.1         1.4    1.8    1.6   1.7    1.5    8.1
3. EVVIR(O. PROTECTION            4.5    2.1    2.9    2.1    2.5   14.3         4.5    2.1    2.9   2.1    2.5   14.3
4. FOREST KANAGEMENT              2.2    2.4    2.5    2.3    2.3   11.7         2.2    2.4    2.5    2.3    2.3   11.7
5  AHERIIIGIAN SUPPORT            1.7    0.6    0.5    0.5    0.6    3.9         1.7    0.6    0.5    0.5    0.6    3.9
6. IRAICN.,TECH.ASSY & SIUD.      2.9    2.0    1.2    1.1    1.0    8.1         2.9    2.0    1.2    l.1    1.O    8.1
SthrTotatl                          17.3   13.4   14.1   10.4    9.4   ".D         17.3   13.4  14.1   10.4    9.4   64.8
S. ACRO-FORESTRY
1. RESEARCH                       2.9    2.9    2.5    2.2    2.2   12.7        2.9    2.9    2.5    2.2    2.2   12.7
2. EXTENSION                      7.5    8.1    7.6    7.8    8.1   39.1         7.5    8.1    7.6    7.8   8.1   39.1
3. CREDIT                         3.2    s.3    7.0    8.1    4.9   28.5        3.2    S.3    7.0   8.1    4.9  28.5
4. HARKETOG,IPUTS.SUPPLIES        0.4    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2    1.1        0.4    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.2   ',.1
.......................................................................................
SubrTota1                           14.1   16.5   17.3  18.1   15.4   81.4         14.1   16.5   17.3  18.1  15.4   81.4
C. soCIo-EcoIoNtC
1. HEALTH                         4.6    3.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.7        4.6    3.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    7.7
2. EDUCATION                      1.8    3.2    0.0    C.0    0.0    5.0        1.8    3.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    S..0
3. MATER SUPPLY                   1.2    0.7    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.9        1.2    0.7    0.0    0.0   0.0    1.9
4. TRANSPORT ACtIVITIES          14.3   13.7   17.8    7.2    3.8   56.9       14.3   13.7   17.8    7.2   3.8   56.9
................... ........................  . ....... ....... ............. .... ...... ........ .............  . ...... ....... ............... 
Sti*TotaI                           21.9   20.8   17.8    7.2    3.6   71.5       21.9   20.8   17.8   7.2    3.6   71.5
0. PROJECT ADH1NISTRA710N            2.6    2.8  . 1.8    1.9    2.0   11.2         2.6    2.a    .a8   1.9    2.0   11.2
.. ................. ........................ . ...... .. .. ... ..... .. ..... ........ .. .... .... ... ... ...... ................. .
Total PIROJECTS COSTS               55.9   53.6   51.1   37.7   30.6  228.9       S5.9   53.6  S1.1   37.7  30.6  228.9
ZD 4
UU2~~UUflSUS3U3U33USUUZB2EUUaEUU*~~UU85UUUflUa o



!!h. [L
RONDONIA NATURAL RLSOURgE HAUAGEMENT IPROJECT
Sumary Account b? Protect Compotent
(US$ millione)
It s Q ; £ " | ^ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMn  "t    ;e wn u  ltd                                                                             PI._  
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V "                                                _9A.
*. notme co
Ft s-w "       ".t  e@.  ew   es   *s   eta 0415                            0,.n 3ein glb.gmIaeoui agusb.
|-5".....   . . . . . . ::-. -   ^-. . . . . . . . . . . ...... 
S. Cioil mass                                               0.0     0.ss..   a i  e .  4llin.  I l  JE S  ...I ....      .s g         me           0u mr                     19i       CS ii.        .   4.
IC  110  5  01    gONE,   815   016*50  8  mit  kOKOSI  mats         a     gOfti        gg    Bliss    tameS        S ~~~~~~~8.0  .5  1.  G.S   . 1  .
5l. WOIUE NE
a. tools ~~~,a.  e.s  i.e  i.s  e.9    *.v     0.5      LI ~~~~~~.a      e.g     e.g      e.g     e.g      1.1        58.?     *.,    45.2    eo.e       4.1   u.s      4.0 9.9  5.
a.a.C         £B                   .        0        0      *        *                6.5  .   .        .g      8.1a    8.4 .0.                     0.?6    .0.      1.0      1.0      O*1   V.A      0.8
6. gg~~~..i~.*eI..Cm*e.6m  60.1  0.1  0~~~~.5  1.1      0.1     LI2      0..     .4       08      00       01       11       .           .       ..44  g41.e             .....0.. .8 ......
0. smgS    £t*0Ie.                e.g     e.g      0.0      g.*     0.0      0.0 °.8          e.°    84.4        .      0.0     0.e      0.0        O.s 3.e    aui            e.e      e.g   us a       .0
a. g..t                          e.g      e.      e.       e.g      g.e     e. j0.,e         o.e      e.g     o.   00          0 .0     0.0         i.e     e'O     i.i,     0.6      0.    i.u      u.e
t   s  ........  : : * *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I t                                                                      35
sma th SIUU   mnEt                14      16                 .      IJ?      4.1      5.4     1.4    18.6      0.3      Li      1.5       J        31.1      4.6    to        4*       .     e.        .
*s. siam.'  ist
0                                        10.0      0. -0   8.4      0.0     0.0      0.0        0.1      8.5    51.0      8*0      8.0   6.8.   4.8
a. SharI.. 0 MId~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  5.1  1.8                                                                80      00~~~~~~':'0.  8  068  54   g11        .e      .    4.         .
C. *,.men  a s.  I....            6.        .       .        .        .       .        .       ..0      0                         8 o  *  .                   -               ..O'     6..   8.4,..    .
. a.sm.ssm.T~~Costs60                  .      6.8      .6       6.      6.1     .0       0.0      g.g     8.5      *.       .                   .i      04      5.
~~ 50*351 0110         5.5     4.1~~~~~~~~~~  1.5  1.0   1.8      3.0      VA     5. .6 0l A        ..1     4.0      6.4     0.0        U.S       1.9    01.1      6.0     g.e   U.       a1.
(mel 8*6,150131       U.?      ~~~~    ~~~~~1.0    18.1    to10.      1.4   1Is a  5.6    11.1O      e.g     1.8     4.18     1.1        0.5    10.    MI.9         8.5      .   1.        U0,
0.8  0.9  0.4    6.4      6.8~~~~~~1-1  0.8 0.      6.3     8.0     0.5      0.1     .0.       .          513                       65      ec
Ieq.i~~~~ aa~~~a.~~  0.0  u.S  5.8     5.0      8.?     8~~~~~~~~~.9  .    .      0.0      0.      6.8.09.........1..48.4......
1:1  G  G ,                                                      $3                           ....... *.S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bIl
6:4,  1:3                                                        ...:! ..... ~~-! ......
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~................. t...1....   .................  ......



-75-
mNNEX
Table 6.3
fiRAZIL
ROND6NIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated schedute of Dank Disbursements
CUS miLlion)
Bank                 Quarter                  Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursement            alatnce
Fiscat Year          Ending                  During Quarter           Amount           Z Total          of Loan
1992                 March 31, 1992                       --                                --               --
June 30, 1992                    11.01/            11.0              6.6             156.0
1993                 Sept. 30, 1992                    12.0 I/           23.0             13.4            137.0
Dec. 31, 1992                    13.0 i/           36.0              21.6            131.0
March 31, 1993                    6.0              42.0              25.1            125.0
June 30, 1993                     8.0              50.0             29.9             117.0
1994                 Sept. 30, 1993                     8.0              58.0             34.7            109.0
Dec. 31, 1993                     9.0              6 .0              40.1            100.0
March 31, 1994                    9.0              76.0             45.5              91.0
June 30, 1994                    11.0              87.0             52.1              80.0
1995                 Sept. 30, 1994                    10.0              97.0             58.1             70.0
Dec. 31, 1994                     9.0             106.0             63.5              61.0
March 31, 1995                    9.0             115.0              68.9             52.0
June 30, 1995                     8.0             123.0             73.7              44.0
1996                 Sept. 30, 1995                     8.0             131.0             78.4             36.0
Dec. 31, 1995                     8.0             139.0              83.2             28.0
March 31, 1996                    7.0             146.0             87.4              21.0
June 30, 1996                     7.0             153.0             91.6              14.0
1997                 Sept. 30, 1996                     7.0             160.0             95.8              7.0
Dec. 31, 1996                     7.0             167.0             100.0              0.0
1/   Including initial deposit of USS11.0 million into the Special Account.
?f Including disbursements of US$15.0 miltion of retroactive financing.



-76-
ANNEX 6
Table 6.4
BRAZIL
RONDONIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Financina Plan
(US$ million)
Amounts to be Financed by
State     Federal
C OM P O N E N T                   IBRD       Govt.       Govt.        Total
A. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT            59.4         2.7          2,7        64.8
Land Regularization, Zoning
and Mapping                       14.8         1.9         1.9         18.7
Environmental Conservation           7.8         0.2         0.2          8.1
Environmental Protection            13.9         0.2         0.2         14.3
Forest Management 1/                11.3         0.2         0.2         11.7
Amerindian Support                   3.7         0.1         0.1          3.9
Institutional Strengthening,
Technical Assistance, Studies      7.9         0.8         0.1          8.1
S. AGRO-FORESTRY                       49.8        15.8         15.8        81.4
Research                             6.5         3.1         3.1         12.7
Extension                           19.8         9.7         9.6         39.1
Credit                              22.7         2.9         2.9         28.5
Markets, Input Supply                0.8         0.1         0.2          1.1
C. SOCIO-ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE       49.5        11.0         11.0        71.5
Health                               5.3         1.2         1.2          7.7
Education                            3.6         0.7         0.7          5.0
Water Supply                         1.4         0.2         0.2          1.8
Transport                           32.6         6.2         6.2         45.0
Feeder Road Maintenance              6.6         2.6         2.7         12.0
D. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION               8.3         1.4          1.5        11.2
TOTAL                              167.0        30.9        31.0   228.9 2/
j/ Including extractive reserves.
2./ Includ'.-g about US$5.7 million of taxes and duties not financed by IBRD.



-77-
AWryX- 6
Table 6.5
RONDONIA NATURAL RESURC, MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceede
TOTAL
CATEGORY     XTEM AND % OF EXPENDITURES                                AMOUNT
(USS million)
I     Environmental Management, inc:luding environmental
conservation, environmental protection, forest
management and Amerindian support
100% of expenditures:                                       34.6
II     Land Regularization, zoning and mapping
80% of expenditures:                                        13.5
III     Institutional Strengthening, Technical Asositance,
Consultants and Studies
100% of expenditures:                                        7.0
IV     Agro-forestry Research
6S% of expenditures up to an aggregate disbursement
under this category of US$4.5 million; 40% thereafter
until aggregate reaches US$5.5 million; and 15%
thereafter:                                                  6.6
v     Rural Extension
65% of expenditures up to an aggregate disbursement
under this category of US$13.0 million; 40%
thereafter until aggregate reaches US$17.0 million;
and 15% thereafter:                                         20.6
VI     Rural Credit
80% of expenditures:                                        21.2
VII     Input Supply
80% of expenditures:                                         0.8
VIII     Health, Education and Water Supply
75% of expenditures:                                         9.2
XX    Transport
75% river transport, feeder road pavement and
rehabilitation expenditures:                                29.5
65% of feeder road maintenance expenditures up to
an aggregate disbursement of USS4.5 million; 40%
thereafter until the aggregate reaches US$5.7
million; and 15 thereafter:
X     Project Administration
75% of expenditures:                                         8.0
XI     Unallocated                                                 16.0
TOTAL                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~167-0



-78-
ANNEX 7
Table 7.1
BRAZIL
RONDONIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
List of Executing and Collaborating Agencies
Pr3ject Activity              Main Executing           Main Collaborating
Agency                  Agencies
- Land Regularization          ITERON                  INCRA, FUNAI
Zoning and Mapping
- Environmental               SEDAM-RO, IBAMA          Municipalities
Conservation
- Environmental                SEDAM-RO, IBAMA,        SEDUC
Protection                  Forestry Police
- Forest Management           SEDAM-RO                 Forestry Police
-Amerindian Support           FUNAI                    SEPLAN-Rt', ITERON,INCRA,
Forest -y Police
- Training, Technical         SEPLAN-RO, ITERON,       SEDUC-RO, SDR-PR, UNDP
Assistance and Studies
- Agro-Forestry Research      CPAF/EMBRAPA, CEPLAC,
SEDAM-RO
- Rural Extension             EMATER-RO, SEDAM-RO,
CEPLAC
- Credit                      BERON
- Input Supply                SEAGRI
- Health                      SEASU
- Education                    SEDUC
- Transport                   ENARO, DER-RO
- Water Supply                 CAERG
- Project Administration       SEPLAN-RO, SDR-RO       UNDP



-79-.                                    ANNEX 
Table 7.2
Page 1 of 5
8RAZIL
RONDOUIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ProLoWt Physfcel Taroets and Schedule of Imelementation
Total
Prolect Comonentuts                                Year I        _L9   2      Year 3       Year 4        Year 5  Incrementat
LAND ZONING, KUAPING & REGULARIZATION
Demarcation of Extractive Raserves    ha    1,038,000        380,000      471,000       118,000    1,493,000    3,500,000
families          850           250          450           200           850         2,400
Demarcation of Forest Reserves and
Conservation Units                     km        1,589         2,541        2,228         2,128             -         8,488
Oemarcation of Amerindian Reserves    km           743            96           333          252            --         1,424
Renewal of Demarcation of AmerIndian
Reserves                               km        1,043           595            --                                    1,638
Second Approximation -
Agro-ecological Zoning               ha    3,100,000    3,100,000    1,800,000    9,050,000    7,250,000   24,300,000
CONSERVATION UNITS
(EstabLishment/Management/
RehabiLitation/Protection)
State Parks                          Name     Guajard-    Serra dos                    Continued Maintenance           Five
Mirim        Parecis
ha      220,000        28,000            --           --             -       902,000
Name     Candeias    Serra dos             --           --
Reis
ha       16,000         8,000            --
Name    Rio
Corumblara                         --                          -
ha      630,000
Federal Units                        Name    Pacaas             Jaru            --           --            --          Four
Novos/            Cunid
Guapord
ha    1,260,000      370,000            --            --                   1,630,000
State BiologicaL Reserve             Name    Rio Ouro                     -                  --            --           Two
Preto
ha       76,000            --           --            --             -        98,000
Name     Traqadal -t                       -            --
ha       22,000
State Ecological Station             Name   Serra Tres            --                                                    One
Irmaos
ha      140,000            --           --             -            --       140,000
Municipal Parks                      Name  Porto Velho      Rollm de     Colorado       Vithena                        Five
Moura    Ji-Parand
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
(Enforcement)
Routine Operations                     No          420           670         1,010        1,010         1,010         4,120
Dire:ted Operations                    No        1,500         2,400        3,600         3,600         3,600        14,700
Aerale  Recognition                    NO          100           100           100           100          100           500
Special Inspection                     25           25            25            25           25            35           125



-80-                                   Table 7.2
Page 2 of 5
Total
ProQect Components                     YkUitrI                   Year 2        Year g3 ar 4                Year S  Ince_reMola
FOREST MANAGEMENT
(Establishment/Protection/Managemwnt)
Pilot Operations                     Name S. olamingos   Nachadinho                                                       Two
Total he      285,000        68,000                                                 353,000
Test Area (ha)       (9,500)       (2.500)      (12,000)      (12,Oc)      (12,000)      (57,500)
Other Forest Reserves
Federal                            Name             -        Jamari            -T --                       --           Two
Sam Futuro
ha -e                 505,000            --            --            --       505,000
state                              Name    Roosevelt  Rio Gumpord                     -       -            --      Seven 1/
Abuia           Nequens
Nadeira   Rio Vermelho             -
Machado            --            -              -
ha      372,000    1,169,000             --                          --    1,548,000
Block                              Name            --                     Cujubim   Nachadinho          Urupa
ha           --            --    (4 areas)   (17 areas)    (2 areas)           36,000
EXTRACTIVE RESERVES
(Establishment/Management)             Name   Rio Preto/   Rio PaceasRios Cantario                       Rio Jacy
Jacundk   Novas/Novo   Sao Miguel                        Parani           Six
ha    1,038,000       380,000       471,000       118,000    1,493,000    3,382,000
SUPPORT TO AMERINDIAN COMMUNITIES
(Demarcatiun/Protection Amerindian    Name    Rios Gua-              -       K Karipune    Bahia dos           --          Five
Areas)                                       pord/Mequens                    Sagarana         Onras
ha      220,996            *-       123,050  Est.155,000                      499,048
CSpecific Complete Enforcement
Tours of Indian Reserves)
(In addition to other enforcement
above)
AOR Cacoal                           No            16            16            16            16            16            80
ADR GuaJard-Mirim                    me            28            28            28            28            28           140
AOR Porto Velho                      Nd            20            20            20            20            20           100
AOR Vilhena                          20            20            20            20            20            20           100
(Contact and Assistance          Person/day           S00           800           800           80O           800         3,000
Isolated Groups)           In Field Reports             4             4             4             4             4            20
(Mobile Health Team
Fleld Visits)                    Days/Field
AOR Cacoal                 Nedical Per.           800           800           800           800           800         4,000
ADR Guajert-Mirim                                 700           700           700           700           700         3,500
ADR Porto Velho                       a           900           900           900           900           900         4,500
ADR Vilhena                           "           960           960           960           960           960         4,800
(Availability of SpeciaL
Hospital Annexes)
AOR Cacoal                 Patient days           900        900 V            900           900           900         4,500
AOR Gusaerd-Nirim                                 850        850 y            850           850           850         4,250
ADR Porto Velho                       "           820        820 g/           820           820           820         3,100
AOR                                   "           550        550 V            550           550           550         2,750
I/ Excluding the Sao Daningos reserve listed under ptlot eperatitms.
J First 2 yesrs provided by proJect. Afterwards by State.



-81-                                     h     ZANNEX
Table 7.2
Page 3 of 5
T3tal
Proiect Comeonents                     Unit       Year 1        YeaUr        !Year 3         Year  4     Year 5  Increnta.
(Construction (a) and Operation (b)
of Miniposts)
AOR Cacoal        Ca)                  N              1                          -             -
(b)         Staff/post             2             2            2             2             2             2
ADR GuaJar4-Mirim (a)                  No             1                                                                    I-   -  1
(b)         Staff/post             2            2             2             2             2             2
ADR Porto Velbo   (a)                  No            4                    -             -             -                    4
(b)         SIdff/post             2            2             2             2             2             2
ADR Vithena       (a)                  No             1            -             -             -             -             I
(b)         Staff/post             2            2             2             2             2             2
Isolated Indians  (a)                  No            -             2             -             -                          2
(b)              Team              -            2             2             2             2             2
AGRO-FORESTRY ReSEARCH
UEPAE-RO
New Laboratory CPV)                  unit            1             -             -             -                           1
FieLd Laboratories                   unit            1             2             1                           -            4
Field Offices                        unit            3             4             -             -             -            7
Trials on mixed cropping system      unit            5             5             4             4             4           22
Trials on agro-forestry systems      unit            3             3             4             4             -            14
Trials on forest fallow enrichment  unit             4             3             3             2             -            12
Trials on crop diversification       unit            5             s             6             4             1           21
On-farm trials                                       6             4             6             6             4           26
CEPLAC
Laboratory                           unit            -             1             -             -             -             1
Field Office                         unit            4             2             2             -             -            8
Nurseries                            unit            -             2             -                           -             2
Trials diversification out of cocoa unit             5             3             2                                        10
Trials on new genetic materials      unit            4             5             4             4             4           21
iEF
Trials on forest management          unit            5             5             5             5             4           24
Trials on enrichment of
extractive reserves                unit            3             4             4             4             -           16
Trials on rubber tapping, collection
of germoplasm                      unit            2             2             3             2             -            9
Trials of foresty species            unit            3             -             -             3             -            6
observation sites of farmers,
initiatives                        unit           10            15            20           20            20            85
RURAL EXTENSION
E4ATER-RO
Regional offices                     unit            1             -             -             -                           1
Field offices                        unit            3             3             2             *             -            8
Training center                      unit            1                                  -                    -             1
Farmers attended
new                                unit        5,200         7,800        10.000        10,000        10,000       43,000
cwmutative                         unit        5,200        13,000        23,000        33.000       43,000        43,000
Ratio farmer/extensioniat                         75:1         130-1         150:1         200:1         Z00:1
Demons.ration plots
(assisted by research)             unit            5             5             5             5             5           25



-82-
Tablo 7.2
Page 4 of 5
Total
Prolect Cmonents                                 Year 1Year 3                             Yger 4sear 5  Incrementa
CEPLAC
Field Offices                       unit             I            -                    -                   -             I
Farmers attended
new                               unit         1,000        1.000         1.000         1,500        1,500         8,000
cunulative                        unit         1.000        2,000         3,000        4,S00         6.000         6.000
Ratio farmer/extensionist                        80:1          80:1         100:1        130:1         130:1
Oemonstration plots
(assisted by research)              unit            5             S             5            5             S           25
IEF
Staff house                         unit            2             2             2            1             1            8
Farmars attended
new                               unit          SOO           500         1.000        1,000                      3.000
cumuletive                        unit          SOO         1,000         2,000        3,000         3.000        3,000
Ratio farmer/extensionist                        50:1          50:1          50:1         75:1          75:1
Oemnstration plots
(assisted by research)              unit            7             7             7            7             7           35
RURAL CREDIT
N' of farmers
new                               unit        4,000         6.000         7,000        8,000         8,000       33,000
cumulative                        unit        4,000        10,000        17,000       25,000        33,000       33,000            r
Crops
Perennials (other than
cocoa & coffee)                     ha        3,500         5,900         8,800       11,000        11,500       40,400
Annuals                             ha       120,000      103,000        87,000       71,000        59,000       120,000
Fallow enrichment                   ha        4,800        12,000        19,200       27,000        27,000       90,000
Smalt on-farm storage               unit          750           950         1,000         1,500        1,300         5,500
Farmers' Association storage        unit            5            10            10           10            10            45
INPUT SUPPLY
Nurseries (Prod. seed & seedlings)  unit             1            1             -             -                          2
HEALTH
Improvement of health units         unit            3             4                          -                          7
Staff trained                       unit          300           470             -            -                         770
Supervision visits            day./field           700          80                           .,                      1,500
EDUCATtON
lmprovement classroems              unit           30            SO                                                    80
Teachers traIned                    unit          800         1,400             -            -             -        2,200
Supervision visits            days/field        1.000         1.500                           -            -        2,500
WATER SUPPLY
Completion of systems               unit            11           12             -            -                          23
ROAD AND RIVER TRANSPORT
Road eonp. studies                  unit            3             1                    -                   -             4
State and municipal
road rehabiLitation                 km          780           780           780          780           780        3,900
Maintenance feeder roads               km        1,000        1,000           750           750          500      2503,500
Pavement state feeder roads            kn           40           41             -             -            -            81
River transport study               unit             I            -             -             -            -             I
Small ports construction          unit             -            2             2            2             -             6
Freight/passenger boat/dredgers   unit             -            S             5            6             6            22



-83-                                      ANNEX?
Table 7.2
page 5 of 5
Total
UrLYLE3XE5                              mUni       Year I        Year 2        Year; 3ear 6                Year t  Jncremental
ADMINISTRATION, MONITORING,
EDUCATION
Monitoring (Indepondent
Cammittee Report)                    unit             1             1             1             1             1             5
EvaLuation (mid-torm - ex-post)      unit             -             -                           -             1             2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CONSULTAMCY (a)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TRAINING (b)
Land Zoning, Mapping &
Resutarizatfon
(a)                            man/year             5             5             5             3             2            20
(b)                                unit             8            10            10             5             5            38
Extractive Reserves
Conservation units, EnvirornentaL
Protection, Forest Management
(a)                            man/year            10            10            10             5             3            38
(b)                                unit            15            20            25            10             5            75
Support to Amerindian Communftfes
(a)                            man/year             5             5             4             3             3            20
(b)                                   12            9             8             4             4            37
Agro Forestry Research
(a)                            man/year             5             5             3             3             1            17
(b)                                unit             8             8             7             7             4            34
Ravrt Extension
(a)                            man/year             3             3             1             1             1             9
(b)                                unit            10            10             8             8             2            48
Health, Education, Water Supply
(a)                            man/yar              3             3             -                           -             8
(b)                                unit            25            25                    -             -                   50
Road an River Transport
(a)                            Man/year             5             S             3             2             2            17
(b)                                unit             5             5             3             2             1            16
Administration, Monitoring,
EvaLuation
(a)                            man/year            18            18            la             S             3            62
(b)                                unit            15            10            10             5             5            45



RONDONIA
RONDONIA NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Organizational Chart
SDR-PR                                      Federal
National Coordinatior - - - - - - - - - - - - -    Executing
Unit                                       Agencies
State
Governor
D rec               SPLAN- ;State Representation
CoucilRO…--------------- Federal Executing
Agencies
State Project
Coordination
Administration        Technical                                 Programming,               Training
and                Unit                                  Monitoring and                 Unit
Finance Unit                                                 Evaluation Unit
State Executing
Project Authority Line                    Agencies 
- - - Project Functional Line
7-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



-85-
ANNEX 8
BRAZIL
ROND6NIA NATURAL RESOURCE WiNAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in Pvoitct File
A.   March 1987.  Technical Review by FAO/CP of the Northwest I, II and III
Agricultural Projects.
B.   November 1987.  FAO Technical Assistance (TCP/8RA/6755) to the
preparation of agricultural intensification project in Rond8nia,
including working papers on:
-    In-kind denominated credit
-    Markets, Marketing and Prices for Perennial Crops
-    Analysis of Agricultural Production Alternatives
-    Rural Extension
-    Research
-    Legal Aspects related to the Northwest Programs
-    Land Occupation and Tenure.
C.   November 1988.  State of Rond8nia.  Agricultural and Forestry Plan for
Rond8nia (Planafloro)t
-    Vol. I.  The Project Proposal
-    Vol. II. Production Models.
D.   June 1989.  State of Rond8nia.  Final Version of the Agricultural and
Forestry Plan for Rond6nia (Planafloro):
-    Vol. I.   The Project Proposal
-    Vol. II.  Production Models (Detailed)
-    Vol. III. Production Model (Aggregate)
-    Vole. IV and V.  Detailed Investment Program by Project Component.
Workina Papers
I.    Technical Proposal for the Sustainable Development of the Different
Agro-ecological Zones in RondBnia (Jean Dubois)
II.    The Valuation of Environmental Policy Benefits (Richard S.
Norgaard)
III.    Environmental Conservation and Forest Management (Mark Dourojeanni)
IV.    Amerindian Component (Daniel R. Gross)
V.    Agro-ecological Zoning 'John R. McKenna)
VI.    Land Regularization (Jo&o Barbosa)
VII.    Research and Extension (Eimert Los)
VIII.    Rural Credit (Ernesto Velez-Koppel)
IX.    Road and River Transport (Victor Bellia)



MAP SECTION
pr.



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
IBRD 2192G
/                                   ~~~~~~B R A Z I L
STATE OF RONDONIA
K a   <t    AGRO-ECOLOGICAL. ZONES
AMAZO NAS                                                                              NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
ZONE_1
INTENSIVE AGRICULTURE (SOILS):
Va       Lt2 0                        t    ^      <                  CGood Natural Fertility
R- 4                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Moderate and Low NaturAl Fertility
] .... ..,..,. 0, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zone IBoundrie
SMALL PRODUCERS IN COMMUNITIES
1l,1 ntaeoe°n^o OIVIA GOS
XTRACTIVE FOREST RESERVES
SUS-TAINABL FOREST MANAGEMENT
-   SELECTED ROADS                                                                                                   NERNINNTOA                      LT
C ONSERATIONA      OSEATE
MAIN TOWNS  AREAS  UNITS     UNITS
INTERNATIeONALI,.  BOUNDARIESBOL  VI
oort.rifo,y ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ any~Pinnlt
.ndo,.om.rto,occ.eIono. of ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~R-
.vd, boordori.o.
B RA Z I L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ERtAY19



