                                               Document of
                                          The World Bank




                                                                                          Report No: 26080

                            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (CPL-34440)

                                                  ON A

                                                 LOAN

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$167.0 MILLION

                                                   TO

                             THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                                  FOR

                                                    A

                  RONDONIA NATURAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                            (LOAN 3444-BR)




                                            October 30, 2003




This ICR was prepared based on the findings of the two ICR missions that visited the Rondonia and Mato
Grosso Natural Resources Projects in the first semester of 2003, as well as various contributions from the
Borrower and the Implementing Agencies. The ICR missions were led by Christoph Diewald (LCSES), and
consisted of Stael Baltar (LCSES), Flavio Chaves (LCC5C), Francesco Vita, Marta Irving, Magda Lara
Resende, Pedro H. Z. da Conceição (consultants).

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective )

                            Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (Cr$) at Appraisal, Real (R$) at
                                              Completion
                               Cr$306.69 = US$ 1.00
                             US$ 0.0036 = Cr$ 1.00
                     Rate at Completion R$3.00 = US$1.00
                                 FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1   December 1

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BERON       Banco do Estado de Rondônia
            (Bank of Rondonia)
BNDES       Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social
            (National Economic and Social Development Bank)
CAF         Corporación Andina de Fomento
CCZEE       Comissão Coordenadora do Zoneamento Ecológico Econômico
            (Federal Zoning Commission)
CEPLAC      Comissão Executiva do Plano da Lavoura Cacaueria
            (Executive Committee for the Cocoa Development Plan)
CIFA        Comitê Inter Instucional de Fiscalização Ambiental
            (Inter-institutional Environmental Law Enforcement Committee)
COFIEX      Comissão de Financiamentos Externos
            (Foreign Financing Committee)
EMATER      Empresa de Asistencia Técnica e Extensão Rural
            (Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA     Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuária
            (Brazilian Agricultural Research Enterprise)
ENARO       Empresa de Navegação de Rondônia
            (Water Transport Company of Rondonia)
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
FEMA        Fundação Estadual do Meio Ambiente
            (State's Foundation for the Environment ­Mato Grosso)
FUNAI       Fundação Nacional do Índio
            (National Indian Foundation)
FUNDAGRO    Fundo Agrário
            (Agricultural Credit Fund)
GOB         Government of Brazil
GOMT        Government of Mato Grosso
GOR         Government of Rondonia
HQ          Head Quarters
IBAMA       Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis
            (Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources)
ICMS        Imposto Sobre Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços
            (State Sales Tax)
ICR         Implementation Completion Report

IMF          International Monetary Fund
INCRA        Instituto Nacional de Colonização e Reforma Agraria
             (National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
ITERON       Instituto de Terras de Rondônia
             (Rondonia's Land Institute)
MIN          Ministério da Integração Nacional
             (Ministry of National Integration)
MTR          Mid Term Review
NGO          Non Governmental Organization
PADIC        Programa de Apoio Direto às Iniciativas Comunitárias
             (Community Initiative Support Program)
PAIC         Programa de Apoio às Iniciativas Comunitárias
             (Community Initiative Support Program)
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PIC          Programa de Iniciativas Comunitárias
             (Community Initiatives Program)
PLANAFLORO   Plano Agropecuario e Florestal de Rondônia
             (Rondonia Natural Resources Management Projects)
POA          Plano Operativo Anual
             (Yearly Implementation Plan)
POLONOROESTE Programa de Desenvolvimento Integrado do Noroeste do Brasil
             (Northwest Integrated Development Program)
PPG7         Programa Piloto para Conservação das Florestas Tropicais do Brasil
             Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forests)
PRODEAGRO    Projeto de Desenvolvimento Agroambiental de Mato Grosso
             (Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Project)
PRONAF       Programa Nacional de Fortalecimento da Agricultura Familiar
             (National Program for Family Agriculture Strenghening)
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SEDAM        Secretaria de Estado de Desenvolvimento Ambiental
             (State Secretariat for the Environment ­ Rondonia)
UNDP         United Nations Development Program

                          Vice President:     David de Ferranti
                       Country Director:      Vinod Thomas
                        Sector Director:      John Rewood III
                          Task Manager:       Flávio Chaves

                                           BRAZIL
                     Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          15
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            35
6. Sustainability                                                                38
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 39
8. Lessons Learned                                                               44
9. Partner Comments                                                              52
10. Additional Information                                                       53
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             54
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             55
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             56
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             57
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             59
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                60
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            61
Annex 8. Summary of Stakeholder Workshop

Project ID: P006454                                                      Project Name: Rondonia Natural Resources
                                                                         Management Project
Team Leader: Flavio Chaves                                               TL Unit: LCC5C
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: October 31, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project L/C/TF Number: CPL-34440
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (29%); General
                            transportation sector (25%); Sub-national government
                            administration (23%); Micro- and SME finance (14%); General
                            water, sanitation and flood protection sector (9%)
                  Theme: Biodiversity (P); Environmental policies and institutions (P); Other
                            rural development (P); Indigenous peoples (P); Rural services and
                            infrastructure (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    05/25/1988                                        Effective: 01/15/1993              01/15/1993
   Appraisal:    07/26/1989                                            MTR: 12/31/1994                06/30/1996
    Approval:    03/17/1992                                         Closing: 12/31/1996               09/30/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOB/SEC. REG. DVT/RONDONIA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shadid Hussain
Country Director:               Vinod Thomas                                   Armeane Choksi
Sector Director:                John Redwood III                               Phyllis Pomerantz
Team Leader at ICR:             Christoph Diewald                              Luis Coirolo
ICR Primary Author:             Christoph Diewald


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:N

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context.

The natural resources management projects in the neighboring states of Mato Grosso and Rondonia, known
locally as PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO respectively, are two very similar operations funded by the
Bank in the Brazilian Northwest (please note that, given the similarities between these two projects that the
present report has section 3, 5, 7 and 8 in common with report N.° 26081 - PRODEAGRO's ICR).
PLANAFLORO was the first one to be prepared and appraised, but both projects started at about the same
time (early 1993). The projects were seen as follow-up to the Bank's heavy involvement in that Brazilian
Northwest, a sub-region of the Legal Amazon Region, through the POLONOROESTE program in the
1980s, in the form of four loans of some $400 million altogether. This earlier program had earned the Bank
severe international criticism for contributing to destruction of rain forests by supporting the paving of
trunk roads, migration, settlements and agricultural development in the rain forest. Both projects were
intended to correct and compensate for the shortcomings of POLONOROESTE, and preparation of
PLANAFLORO began already as that program was winding down. Many lessons were learnt from
POLONOROESTE; however, not all of the lessons, including some of the most important (e.g., fully
understanding and taking into account the political economy of the frontier, the importance of full sate
"ownership: of project objectives, the pitfalls as well as the advantages of decentralization and the critical
importance of adequate local institutional capacity), were incorporated in the new projects.

The rationale for Bank involvement both projects, as stated in the SARs, was based on three main factors:

i.   the Bank's lending program for Brazil was placing increased emphasis on environmental issues;
ii. the Bank was in a better position than during POLONOROESTE to assist Brazil in fostering more
     "rational" development of the Northwest sub-region; and
iii. there was a growing commitment within Brazil to sound environmental management, based on gradual
     strengthening of essential institutions and improved technical knowledge.

These assumptions were reasonable. The circumstances that underpinned the decision of launching
PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO were, however, unusual and merit mention:

-    The Bank was uneasy with the international view that it had contributed to deforestation in the
     Brazilian Amazon through POLONOROESTE. The Brazilian Government was similarly uneasy about
     its image abroad, particularly at a time when Brazil was to host a major international conference on
     Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro (June 92);
-    The Brazilian Government felt the need to take stronger action in frontier areas, given the history of
     their "predatory" occupation and the innovative environmental agenda set by the 1988 Federal
     Constitution, which declared the Amazon a national heritage area. Brazil had also recently launched the
     "Nossa Natureza" program which intended to address the way Amazon occupation was taking place
     and contained as an important element the concept of zoning; and
-    Poorer states such as Mato Grosso and Rondonia faced continued scarcity of resources, as a result of
     the drastic reduction of federal transfers that followed the 1988 Constitution.

The question of whether or not to finance a new project in the Amazon raised internal concerns and
controversy in the Bank, both in relation to the strategy and design of the projects, and because of doubts
about the true commitment of the Federal and State Governments to the environmental thrust of the



                                                       - 2 -

projects. Another failure in supporting a new intervention in the Amazon region would put the Bank's
already tarnished image further at stake. On the Brazilian side, many decision-makers responsible for
external financing shared those concerns and, although they recognized the need for federal support to
Mato Grosso and Rondonia to avoid further environmental deterioration following POLONOROESTE,
would rather not have external funds supporting the projects. The State Governments' views, in turn, were
quite pragmatic: the projects presented the best option to obtain federal transfers to finance some of their
need for investments and public services. The real extent of their commitment to the projects'
environmental objectives and components, however, was less firm.

Moreover, projects of this type and scope, which aimed at significant changes in the way these large
frontier states managed their natural resources over their entire territories, were unprecedented. The
challenge was even larger because there was considerable uncertainty and lack of experience in terms of to
what exactly would be required to make "sustainable development" a reality in the rain forest.

Evaluation of Objectives.

The Loan Agreement states the general objective of the Rondonia project as: "(...) to assist the Borrower
and Rondonia in managing the development and protection of the Amazon basin in the territory of
Rondonia".

Similarly, the objective of the Mato Grosso project, as in the Loan Agreement, was : "(...) to implement an
improved strategy for natural resource management, conservation, environmental protection and
sustainable development of the State, under PRODEAGRO."

This overall objective is highly relevant to the Bank and Brazil today, as reflected in the last CAS, and was
so to the Bank at the time of appraisal, while, as suggested above, it is doubtful that the environmental
elements in it had the same high priority for GOB, GOMT and GOR at the time. Legally speaking, the
Loan Agreement bound the entire Federal Government to its terms, but in practice, there were (and still are)
divergent and/or inconsistent interests and programs within GOB that did not feel bound by the objectives
of the projects ­ the most salient example being the National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian
Reform, INCRA. This agency signed an agreement with both Rondonia and Mato Grosso to follow their
respective zoning plans, as a condition of loan effectiveness, but then went ahead with its settlements in
both states, at least initially, without any regard to the zoning prescriptions in effect, although at a much
slower pace than in the 1970s and 80s. With the perhaps unavoidable compartmentalization of the Federal
Government, it has been difficult for any one ministry to ensure consistency of federal actions.

The objective was, however, formulated in such a broad way that all parties concerned could subscribe to
it. It shows the imprint of the Bank's post-POLONOROESTE interest in better (less destructive) natural
resource management in the States, while acknowledging their (legitimate) development interests (just as in
the objectives of the G-7 funded Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forests [PPG7], started at
about the same time). Indeed, it would have been difficult for the Brazilian Government to disagree with the
objective given the unfortunate experience of the 1970s and 80s in the Amazon and the internal and
external outcry that ensued.

The SARs for Rondonia and Mato Grosso provided a more concrete physical dimension to this objective,
by stating that success was to be measured in terms of the reduction in the annual rate of deforestation. As
it turned out, when the entire ten-year period of the project is considered, these rates were not reduced
although they did fall at the time of preparation, appraisal and startup. Thus (in hindsight) this objective
was not achieved.




                                                     - 3 -

The stated objective makes no specific reference to poverty reduction, which has subsequently become an
important focus in natural resource management projects, both for the Bank and GOB. The interests of the
poorer rural population were partially addressed, however, in the reformulated project design in 1997, even
though the projects' stated objectives did not change to reflect this.

While the term "improved strategy" in the objective for the Mato Grosso project is vague, the text of the
SAR and the structure of the project, as reflected in its components, make clear what was meant:

      "The project would assist the Government to:

  Rondonia (Ln. 3444-BR)                                    Mato Grosso (Ln. 3492-BR)
(a) institute a series of changes in key policies,         (a) support changes in policies, regulations and
regulations and public investment programs in              public investment programs to provide a coherent
order to provide a coherent incentive framework for        incentives framework for the sustainable
sustainable development in Rondonia;                       development of Mato Grosso;
                                                           (b) improve the knowledge of the natural
                                                           resource base, by providing more detailed data
                                                           on land capability and land tenure to establish
                                                           criteria for improving land management and for
                                                           biodiversity protection in the various
                                                           agro-ecological zones of the state;
(b) conserve the rich biodiversity of the State, while     (c) reduce environmental degradation and ensure
creating the basis for the sustainable utilization of its the long-term preservation of the biodiversity of
natural resources for the direct economic benefit of the the state, through the conservation of
local population;                                          ecologically significant samples of its territory;
(c) protect and enforce the borders of all conservation (d) protect and enforce the borders of all
units, Amerindian reserves, public forests and             conservation units, indigenous reserves public
extractive reserves, and control and prevent illegal       forests and control and prevent illegal
deforestation, wood transport and forest fires;            deforestation, wood transport and forest fires;
(d) develop intensive and integrated farming systems in (e) develop sustainable agriculture in areas
areas suitable for permanent agriculture and               suitable for permanent agriculture promoting
agro-forestry, and systems for sustainable forest          integrated agro-forestry farming systems, and
management and extraction of non-wood forest               systems for sustainable forest management in
products in other areas which should remain under          areas which should remain under natural forest
natural forest cover;                                      cover;
(e) support priority investments in socio-economic         (f) support priority investments in
infrastructure and services needed to implement the        socio-economic infrastructure and services in
State's agro-ecological zoning in already occupied and those areas where population should remain
deforested areas;                                          concentrated, in order not to undermine the
                                                           delicate ecological balance of the state;
(f) consolidate the technical and operational               (g) strengthen the technical and operational
capacity of State institutions, particularly those          capacity of the State institutions responsible for the
responsible for agricultural and forestry support           agro-ecological    zoning,     the   protection   and
services, and the protection and management of              management of the environment, and agricultural
State and Federal conservation units and                    and forestry support services.
Amerindian reserves.




                                                       - 4 -

The specific objectives are similar in both projects. The Rondonia version is less clear than the (later) Mato
Grosso one, as the former does not give an explicit motive for zoning, which is implicitly part of objective
(b). The Rondonia project is also more ambitious in terms of institutional strengthening. The specific
objectives were consistent with the emerging Brazilian environmental agenda in the early 90s and with the
concept of agro-ecological (and later ecological economic zoning) zoning ­ a pivotal element of the
PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO projects ­ advanced by Brazil since the 1980s. (The "Policy Notes"
offered recently by the Bank to the new Brazilian Government make similar points with regard to a strategy
for sustainable development and conservation of rain forests.) With the exception of items (e) through (f)
above, these objectives were less consistent with the prevailing "development" mentality of a large part of
local society in each state, although certain less articulated forest-dwelling groups, such as the
rubber-tappers and indigenous peoples, would benefit from better environmental management and
protection and the clearer definition of property rights. In short, numerous project objectives ran counter to
the culture of young settler states at that time, and both state governments were "ahead" of their societies in
signing on to these objectives.

The specific objectives follow an intrinsic logic and strategy: To put order and "rationality" into land use,
spatial knowledge was needed. Zoning, based on such knowledge, was to guide land use and land
conservation. While the "second approximation" of zoning was being prepared under the project, the less
refined "first approximation" undertaken before project takeoff would have to do. Policies and programs
based on zoning would provide incentives for private agents to behave accordingly. Creation and protection
of conservation units and indigenous lands would effectively set aside part of the land and shield it from
traditional forms of development (i.e, agriculture, ranching and mining). Groups using the standing forest
for a livelihood would be benefited. . Intensifying land use in areas more appropriate for rural productive
activities and introducing new forms of land use (such as agro-forestry) with the support of directed credit
would reduce economic and population pressure on primary forests. To that end, technologies would be
developed and disseminated making intensification more attractive. Infrastructure and services would be
provided only in these areas to further enhance their attractiveness and to retain the population within such
areas ("fixar o homem no campo" ­ root people in the rural areas, as this strategy is referred to in
Portuguese).This logic appeared valid after the experience with POLONOROESTE. However, it was
predicated on certain assumptions that turned out to be shaky:

-   Forest clearing is "irrational" behavior, and people could be induced to desist from clearing land by
    offering better knowledge of its potential (or lack thereof) and alternatives;
-   Better knowledge by itself would lead to changed behavior;
-   Intensifying land use in suitable areas would by itself diminish pressure on remaining forests;
-   Offering better technology and infrastructure would induce economic agents to behave in accordance
    with zoning; and
-   State institutions would be willing and capable, with assistance from the project, to provide adequate
    rural technology and basic infrastructure and services.

Recent Bank sector work has shown that cattle ranching is a major driving force of deforestation in the
parts of the Amazon, and that ranching on pastures cleared from Amazon rain forest, in its final
commercial stage of development, is not necessarily the low-return activity frequently assumed; nor is it
necessarily unsustainable from a private perspective. Moreover, the economic logic of land use in a forest
frontier is based on the perception of abundance of the resource and thus on its extensive use ­ the areas
that have been "mined" for their nutrients can be readily replaced by fresh ones through extension of the
frontier. Intensification happens where relative land prices are rising as a function of proximity to growing
urban centers and local road infrastructure. But intensification does not necessarily diminish the drive to
clear new areas on the moving frontier, as long as the forest beyond is considered abundant and the


                                                       - 5 -

underlying ecosystems are suitable for production.

The project's logic and strategy did not ignore the central issue of tropical forest use and conservation, i.e.,
the discrepancy between the private and the social gains/losses from specific land uses (externalities), but
was clearly optimistic in the implicit assumption that project activities by themselves could adequately
address it. Reformulation of the project following the MTR and introduction of a new component
(community-driven sub-projects, mostly of a productive nature) was also ineffective in overcoming the
externalities problem and changing behavior on a sufficiently large scale to fundamentally alter this
underlying tension. Overall, project design relied essentially on a top-down, command-and-control
approach based on prescriptive zoning, creation of conservation areas and enforcement of environmental
law, coupled with supply-driven technology and incentives through improved infrastructure.

In addition, the projects did not address the concerns and calculations of loggers, ranchers and even
small-holder settlers, and these groups were not included as stakeholders or consulted in their original
design. Little emphasis was placed on economic instruments to influence private behavior, although the
project aimed at stimulating economic alternatives in standing forests, such as sustainable forest
management (logging) and extractivism .

The sheer number of specific objectives (six and seven, respectively) reflects the extreme complexity of the
projects. While project design did follow a coherent logic, as in the case of their predecessor program,
Polonoroeste, the attempt to put all elements of the strategy simultaneously into a single operation,
especially where full local "ownership" of the multiple objectives was lacking, clearly overloaded it with an
unmanageable number of components.

The specific objectives provided the general direction for project implementation, but were not explicit as to
the extent to which these objectives were to be reached. No targets or indicators were set to permit
measurement of achievements in relation to each specific objective, with the result that they were overly
broad and ambitious, exceeding by far local implementing capacity.

3.2 Revised Objective:

Context.

By 1995, the Rondonia project had run into considerable trouble with local and international NGOs,
culminating in an appeal to the Inspection Panel by the Rondonia NGO Forum , strongly supported by
international NGOs. In addition, the relationship of NGOs with the state government had deteriorated
badly. Reasons for NGO dissatisfaction were:

-   the poor performance of the agro-forestry and socio-economic infrastructure and services components,
    executed by weak state agencies;
-   the lack of interest in the project on the part of the new Government of Rondonia;
-   the continuing advance of new INCRA settlements into unsuitable zones which threatened
    forest-dwelling and indigenous communities and ran counter to the entire project strategy;
-   the lack of progress with creation of extractive reserves and demarcation of indigenous lands; and
-   the exclusion of civil society organizations and grass roots communities from actual project
    implementation and their demand for decentralization of decision making and actions to the community
    level.

As part of the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in 1996, a team of independent Brazilian consultants undertook a



                                                        - 6 -

comprehensive review of project design and implementation. The MTR addressed the complaints of civil
society and proposed design changes which were introduced in 1997 and implemented from 1998 onwards.
These changes were discussed with the federal and Rondonia state agencies, all relevant stakeholders,
including those groups not benefiting from the project, international NGOs and the Bank in June 1996. The
revised design was applied almost identically in the Mato Grosso project, which had shown similar
performance problems, however, with much less attention and participation of state and international
NGOs.

The restructured projects were intended to conciliate different demands, reduce direct funding of state
agencies in favor of stronger civil society participation and a new community-driven development
component. They continued, however, to respond to the States' interest in road improvements. The new
components (called PAIC in Rondonia and PADIC in Mato Grosso) replaced the original Agro-Forestry
Development and Socio-Economic Infrastructure and Services components (see item 3.3 below) as an
attempt to respond to actual demands from poor rural communities in a more participatory and efficient
way. The rationale was to channel project funds directly to communities to improve the quality of project
implementation and ownership at the community level and allow more effective and adequate solutions to
community needs. The proposal drew on the community-driven development approach adopted by the Bank
in its Northeast rural poverty reduction projects and in the PPG7 Demonstration Projects, and already
experimentally introduced in Rondonia in 1995 in the form of "Community Initiatives Projects" (PICs). The
MTR report did not foresee the total exclusion of state agencies from the project (as later happened), but
suggested that their services would be contracted by community associations.

Evaluation.

The reformulation of both projects did not formally involve any change in their principal project objective
in the Amendments to the Loan Agreement, but specific objectives were implicitly adjusted by the
elimination of components and introduction of PAIC/PADIC. The language of the specific objectives of the
Rondonia project, however, was edited to (a) make zoning an explicit goal, and (b) substitute the objective
"develop intensive and integrated farming systems in areas suitable for permanent agriculture and
agro-forestry, and systems for sustainable forest management and extraction of non-wood forest products
in other areas which should remain under natural forest cover", to read "support rural socio-economic
development and conservation initiatives at the local level".

The revised projects responded to strongly expressed demands of civil society organizations, but deviated
from the original strategy and logic in the process. What was intended as a different way of implementing
the projects with unchanged objectives, in fact resulted in abandonment of the initial spatially differentiated
strategy, particularly the development of more intensive land use in the zones more suitable for agriculture
and ranching (of the "first approximation")-- an essential part of the original logic underlying the project
approach. Some of the socio-economic infrastructure and services development was to be taken up under
the new component. While this component was initially meant to buffer and thus support conservation and
protection efforts in the zones that were to retain forest cover, after reformulation, in practice it was applied
throughout the two states, regardless of zones, and supported "rural socioeconomic development and
conservation objectives" in a very general way, for small farmers and traditional forest-dwelling
populations alike. As a consequence, the original logical nexus between                specific objectives and
components became fuzzy. On the other hand, , the reformulation de facto added objectives, namely
improving quality of life of rural communities and increasing family incomes (with a view towards poverty
reduction), promoting their social organization as well as their inclusion and more active role in the
development process, strengthening administrative capacity at the level of communities and associations,
and strengthening of civil society organizations as mediators/partners between communities and
government. Demonstration and dissemination of agro-ecological production technology appropriate to


                                                      - 7 -

each zone was mentioned, but never actually implemented . The project would have become a more typical
rural development or poverty reduction project, had the zoning and environmental components not been
continued.

If the original focus of the projects was on land, maps, technologies for farming and forest management,
law enforcement, etc., following reformulation their attention turned more to people, their needs and quality
of life, and their role as agents of change of awareness and behavior. There has been considerable debate
since the MTR whether the new decentralized demand-driven component was still pursuing environmental
objectives (a particular concern of the Bank and international NGOs), or whether the focus was more
exclusively on production, income generation, infrastructure and political inclusion which were the main
concerns of the local communities themselves. The Bank insisted on mandatory environmental content,
while many local civil society organizations, which saw improved conservation of natural resources as a
consequence once greater quality of life at the community level had been established , resisted this.




                                                     - 8 -

3.3 Original Components:

PLANAFLORO initially consisted of four components with 15 subcomponents, and PRODEAGRO had
five components with 20 subcomponents:

  Rondonia                                                Mato Grosso
                                                          (a) Refinement of Agro-ecological Zoning and
                                                          Land Tenure Regularization ($40.0 M), including
                                                          land zoning, mapping and land regularization
                                                          activities, with priority assigned to those areas
                                                          where establishment of conservation units and
                                                          indigenous reserves would occur, and areas where
                                                          the need for land tenure regularization is more
                                                          acute or where tenure conflicts had already started.
 (a) Environmental Conservation, Management and         (b) Management, Protection and Monitoring of
 Protection ($64.8 M), including land zoning,           Natural Resources ($54.4 M), including
 mapping and regularization; establishment,             establishment, management and protection of
 management and protection of conservation units andindigenous reserves; environmental protection,
 Amerindian reserves; sustainable forest management;pollution control, strengthening of forestry police
 extractive reserves; environmental protection; and     and monitoring of protected areas, training and
 institutional strengthening, technical assistance and technical assistance.
 studies.
 (b) Agro-forestry Development ($81.4 M), including (c) Agro-forestry Development ($70.2 M), including
 agro-forestry research, rural extension, rural credit  rural extension, agro-forestry research, rural credit,
 and input supply.                                      and market information systems.
 (c) Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services         (d) Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services
 ($56.9 M), including a two-year time slice of          ($65.4 M), including strengthening of the
 essential activities in health, education and water    infrastructure related to health, education, water
 supply, and a five-year time slice of road and river   supply, rural electrification, and rehabilitation of
 transport activities.                                  rural roads.
  (d) Project Administration, Monitoring and              (e) Project Administration and Technical
  Evaluation and Technical Assistance ($11.2 M),          Cooperation ($11.9 M), including installation and
  including, inter alia, the yearly contracting of an     operation of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in
  Independent Evaluation Committee,with                   Cuiabá, supported by an independent technical
  participation of NGO representatives, to evaluate       cooperation group responsible for advising the
  project progress and recommend any needed               PCU with respect to project monitoring and
  changes in strategy or content.                         evaluation, and for recommending any needed
                                                          changes in project strategy and content.



Despite some small differences and the fact that zoning and land regularization have been separated out in
the Mato Grosso, the two projects have essentially the same content. Given the objectives and strategy, the
structure of the components was logical and consistent, and based on an attempt to incorporate at least
some of the lessons of POLONOROESTE.

Zoning was the crucial component as it was intended to determine where the other components would be



                                                      - 9 -

targeted. Both states already possessed a crude zoning plan and associated laws before project start, but
this was either largely ignored by public and private agents alike as in Mato Grosso, or was highly
controversial and poorly accepted, as in Rondonia. Hence the need for a "second approximation" or
refinement of the existing zoning funded under the project. In practice, however, all project components
were initiated simultaneously, so that the "first approximation" necessarily was established as the guide for
the location of other project investments. Indeed, the Loan and Project Agreements "obliged" the federal
and each state government to orient their investment programs strictly by the prevailing zoning law.

All components were to be executed by state and federal sector agencies, more than 20 in each project.
There was no implementing role for local governments, civil society organizations or producer associations.
The attempt to apply the multi-pronged strategy (zoning, conservation and protection, agricultural and
forestry development, infrastructure and social services) made for an exceptionally complex design. This
would have challenged any strong, well-organized and well-managed government. For the state
governments involved, it was virtually impossible to implement coherently and completely. The capacities
not only of project coordination but also of most of the numerous implementing agencies were more than
challenged, they were far exceeded, even with all the technical assistance built into the project. This critical
weakness -- i.e., over ambitious design in the face of less than full government "ownership" of project
objectives and very poor local institutional capacity -- had already been clearly identified as a very serious
design flaw in the evaluation of Polonoroeste previously carried out by OED but was not adequately taken
into account in preparation of the follow-on projects.
3.4 Revised Components:

The restructured projects following the MTR were approved by the Bank's Executive Directors in October
1997 on a no-objection basis, and amendments to the legal agreements were signed in February 1998. As
already discussed, project reformulation resulted in the elimination of the original Agro-Forestry
Development and Socio-Economic Infrastructure and Services components and most of their
sub-components, but retained road improvements, which the respective state governments continued to be
very interested in. The two eliminated components were replaced by the demand-driven community
development components (PAIC and PADIC), funded with US$ 38 million in Mato Grosso and US$20
million in Rondonia. The restructuring required reallocation of the loan proceeds and extensions of the
respective closing dates.

The new components (PAIC and PADIC) had no subcomponents and were not restricted to any particular
zone of the states. Rural communities were expected to identify and implement investments in local
infrastructure, education and health facilities, productive investments in agriculture, agro-forestry and
processing, and environmental conservation and rehabilitation measures. Their implementation structures
involved only the project coordination unit in each state as implementing agency, together with the transfer
of funds to an account jointly held by each community association and the project entity. This represented a
significant operational simplification and increased the volume and timely flow of funds to rural
communities. The revised design, however, made unrealistic assumptions about the availability of
knowledge about innovative technologies and of truly qualified technical assistance to support the
communities. Technical screening of proposals, selection processes, supervision and monitoring were all
foreseen, but were not adequately taken into account in the arrangements to carry out these activities.
Component design included, in Mato Grosso only and at the Bank's insistence, a requirement that all
sub-projects should have an environmental component corresponding to at least 30% of their cost. This was
later dropped as it was only been complied with in a superficial way.

3.5 Quality at Entry:




                                                     - 10 -

The breadth and lack of concrete dimensions/indicators of the project development objectives have already
been mentioned in item 3.1 Original Objective above.

A decisive factor, particularly for this unprecedented kind of project, was ownership. Despite the
consistency of the projects' declared objectives with Brazil's environmental agenda at the time, it is not
clear that the Federal Government attributed high priority to the project beyond its potential positive impact
in terms of the country's international image. For decades, the objectives of the Borrower and, even more
so, of the states in frontier areas had been largely political and geopolitical in nature aiming at the
demographic and economic occupation of frontier lands, the expansion of the agriculture through directed
settlement/agrarian reform projects and, the promotion of extensive cattle ranching activities. The stated
objectives of PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO diverged radically from these traditional concerns. The
State Governments of Rondonia and Mato Grosso, the actual project implementers and loan beneficiaries,
nevertheless appeared to accept the projects for the advantages they would bring (resources for
infrastructure and services), rather than their alleged environmental thrust, which ran counter to the
prevailing development culture of local e society at large and important political interests in the two states.
The driving force in terms of the projects' environmental objectives was clearly much more the Bank and to
a lesser extent the Federal Government, than the principal local stakeholders. .

Also in relation to the ownership issue, the project would have benefited from a careful analysis of the
interests of all important local stakeholders ­ which included not only beneficiaries but those that could
potentially be adversely impacted by the project or limited in their freedom to act, including the private
sector (loggers, timber industry, ranchers and new settlers) and agencies such as INCRA. Important
groups, especially in Rondonia, where the state government made serious attempts to enforce the first
zoning law, did not support the conservation and protection thrust of the project, subsequently caused
serious problems and saw nothing in the projects that would benefit them in return. Representatives of local
governments and civil society were included ­ in the Project Council, but private sector representatives
were not. In sum, the projects could affect ­ in theory ­ virtually everybody in the rural areas of both
states, but there was little local ownership and support for (or even knowledge of) them at the time they
were prepared.

Civil society participation in government projects was certainly not the norm in the early 1990s. It is thus
worthy of note that civil society representatives were to be included in the Project Council and in
component-specific monitoring committees that would oversee and make strategic and operational decisions
on the project implementation. This was an important innovation with which neither the Bank nor the
country were familiar. This level of participation, restricted to seats on committees, however, did not yield
the expected space for civil society which brought turbulence during the first years of the project
implementation, especially in Rondonia, and was one of the factors leading to the complaint to the
Inspection Panel.

One of the main assumptions ­ that agro-ecological zoning would provide a solid technical basis for project
design and implementation ­ entailed the use of a new tool with which neither the Bank, the state
governments, nor the Borrower were truly familiar. Some reviewers within the Bank pointed to the risk of
building project objectives and design on the preliminary stage of zoning ­ based on maps at a scale of
1:1,500,000. Implementation proved, indeed, that the "first approximation" included mistakes, such as the
zoning of areas for conservation where settlements had already been established. . Had appropriate
safeguard policies been in place at the time, some mistakes might have been avoided. Since the "second
approximation" of zoning was expected to be available relatively soon, this risk was underestimated.
Methodologically, there were no precedents for rural zoning on such a grand scale anywhere. The Rondonia
SAR did not describe the nature and process of zoning; it mentioned only "the preparation and distribution


                                                    - 11 -

of statewide agro-ecological, climatological, soil and topographic maps", and treated this as "works" for
procurement purposes. The long delays until consulting contracts could be signed for the zoning work in
both projects, including extended discussions on the terms of reference, also show that none of the parties
clearly understood what zoning would actually entail. Even today, there still is debate whether zoning
should be "indicative" (i.e., providing information on land use options) or "normative" (binding by law).
Be that as it may, the long delay in preparing for and implementing zoning work significantly affected the
implementation of some project activities and increased the dissatisfaction among groups whose economic
activities were contingent upon the findings of the "second approximation". The terms of reference for this
crucial task should have been ready before effectiveness, while the whole process should have involved
much greater participation in the part of the entire range of local stakeholders rather than being a largely
top-down (and extremely costly) technocratic exercise .

From the technical preparation point of view, areas slated for conservation units were not always identified
properly beforehand, perhaps owing to the crudeness of the first approximation, and contained significant
numbers of settlers in several cases. They were thus not suitable for the establishment of conservation
units.

Supervision, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) were a clear concern for the Bank, and lessons were
learned from the POLONOROESTE experience. The SARs mention several design elements for
supervision and M&E: the executing agencies' own monitoring and reporting, a central project M&E unit,
also in charge of monitoring land use change in relation to the zoning plan and encroachments on
conservation and indigenous areas, routine Bank supervision, and the MTRs. In addition, a State Council
for the projects, chaired by the Governor of each state and comprising representatives of municipal mayors'
associations, NGOs and all implementing agencies, would convene at least every quarter, while an
Independent Evaluation Committee, in which NGOs would also participate, would meet annually to
monitor project environmental and social performance and the compatibility of government investment
programs with the zoning plan. Conscious of the sensitivity of the projects and the risks involved, the Bank
established a field office in Mato Grosso as implementation started (February 1993), to closely supervise
and support both the PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO projects. Substantial technical assistance for
M&E through UNDP was planned.

Detailed physical targets for each component and sub-component were defined and included in the SARs.
These referred mainly to specific outputs (establishment of conservation areas and reserves, demarcations,
training activities, farmers attended, buildings, etc.) and in some cases to inputs (field visits, man-years,
etc).

The SARs were much less specific with regard to project outcome and impacts. They mentioned broad
indicators, such as the reduction in the annual rate of deforestation, improved environmental preservation,
protection of indigenous lands, economic utilization of designated areas, prevention of unsustainable
agricultural activities, and reducing the rate of in-migration. But no specific qualitative or quantitative
targets were given. A baseline study was to be prepared for three municipalities in Rondonia, but not in
Mato Grosso. It is, however, noteworthy that the project was to fund an evaluation system to provide
continuous environmental assessment, with analysis of remote sensing images and aerial photography and
the establishment of a specially trained team within the project coordinating unit.

The Legal Agreements established a deadline, shortly after project start, for adoption of indicators and
procedures, but they were never adopted by the project units in either Mato Grosso or Rondonia.
Furthermore, a revised M&E system, developed as a result of agreements reached after the MTR, became
available too late to have any impact on the implementation of the project.


                                                    - 12 -

The POLONOROESTE experience was interpreted by the project preparation team to show the need to
decentralize project implementation from the federal to the state level. However, both states had very weak
institutions at project start, as the implementation history has clearly shown. The SARs state that the
organizational structure, staffing, operating practices and budget of each of the principal agencies to be
involved in project execution had been reviewed, and they are frank about the limitations. Nevertheless, in
hindsight it is evident that the review may not have been thorough enough. What was not analyzed were the
guiding values and the internal and external incentives for staff to perform within a clear mission of the
agency. The admittedly limited implementation capacity of project agencies was addressed in the design by
inclusion of a heavy capacity building component, which encompassed an extensive training program, the
hiring of new staff, provision of continuous technical support through a cooperation program with UNDP,
and consultant services. It even included improvement in personnel policies. Project implementation
revealed that, in addition to the slow agency response (which required more training than envisaged and
increased the costs of both PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO), the state government did not properly
disseminate the project among the implementing agencies during preparation nor did it sufficiently prepare
them for their roles. As a result, roles were unclear and understanding of project objectives and strategy
was poor. The combination of these constraints, together with insufficient political commitment to the
project strategy and lack of forceful management, undermined the coordination mechanism that was
intended to guide and integrate the activities of the many implementing agencies. The high-level State
Council referred to above hardly met.

 Project coordination was to be located within each state's Planning Secretariat, but was to coordinate (not
command) around twenty other agencies reporting to other state Secretariats. "Coordination" alone in the
case of such large and complex projects is insufficient, and true management, going beyond coordination, is
required. Management must be where the political power (over other agencies) is, i.e., in the Governor's
office, and even there delicate political relationships need to be respected. While largely independent,
parallel (sub)components were indeed overseen, monitored and to some extent "coordinated" by the project
coordination units, but there was no integrating force with the power and overall vision to steer these entire
complex projects towards their objectives. This was a serious flaw in the implementation arrangements.

In addition, no provisions for sustainability of what the projects were to create in the states were built into
the projects. The heavy reliance on UNDP-facilitated staffing, funded out of the loans, and lack of phasing
out reliance on the loan significantly undermined project sustainability.

The project design attempted to incorporate some, but by no means all, of the lessons learned from
POLONOROESTE. According to the SAR, in designing a new project for a frontier area with a fragile
natural environment, it would be necessary to:

-   Decentralize the implementation to the State level and strengthen its implementation capacity ­ this was
    a main rationale for creating state projects. But the dependence on the flow of federal resources,
    including loan resources, was maintained and strong local economic and political incentives to continue
    predatory occupation, resulting in continued environmental degradation, were essentially overlooked.
-   Give an increased role to NGOs in project implementation to enhance accountability and improve
    responsiveness of the project agencies. In project design, however, NGOs were restricted to
    participation in councils and committees, but not directly involved in implementation.
-   Build the design on a tool that would provide better technical information about the sustainable
    development potential of the various sub-areas within the state, i.e., on zoning.
-   Undertake an appropriate analysis of the policy and legal framework governing the land use standards
    in the project area, which was addressed in the "Matrix of Main Environmental Policy Issues,


                                                    - 13 -

    Measures and Actions" codified in side letters to the legal agreements.
-   To ensure that project interventions would be sufficient to achieve their objectives, they should not only
    support parts of states without addressing the movements of populations and patterns of occupation.
    While, in retrospect, it is clear that the true determining factors of continued frontier occupation were
    not properly addressed, the projects did attempt to take a statewide, strategic view.
-   Where agricultural success depends on credit and if prevailing credit conditions are not suitable, create
    (in exceptional circumstances warranted by significant environmental or poverty reduction objectives)
    an alternative, project-specific solution to ensure credit availability to agricultural production, which
    was addressed by including a special credit line (FUNDAGRO) in both projects.
-   Innovative projects with above-average risks need a monitoring and evaluation system oriented to
    generate early warnings and project design should provide considerable flexibility to allow for
    corrective measures. The project design contained such system.
-   Farm development in relatively unknown or difficult environments should be given longer start-up
    periods and less optimistic assumptions should be made about the speed of farm development. This was
    not specifically addressed in the projects.
-   Where a multitude of implementing agencies is involved, create coordination mechanisms with
    sufficient authority (including control over budgetary resources). This was insufficiently ­ addressed
    by the establishment of Project Councils and budgetary control in the Planning Secretariats. As noted
    above, the issue is not coordination, but management.

.

Risks.

Finally, the SAR identified the following major risks to project implementation and ways to address them:

-   Inadequate knowledge about natural resources, to be addressed by further zoning under the projects.
-   Encroachment of conservation areas and indigenous lands ­ control and mitigation measures to be
    addressed through project strategy and design.
-   Unanticipated factors increasing environmental degradation (migration, weather, plant diseases) ­ to be
    addressed through M&E measures built into then projects.
-   Fiscal difficulties in the states and restrictions on hiring of adequate staff ­ to be addressed by a
    strategy of the state governments presented at negotiations to ensure that executing agencies would be
    able to recruit and retain adequate staff, by close monitoring of the staffing situation, technical
    assistance to and staff training for key institutions and supervision by Bank and Federal Government.

The SAR recognized the seriousness of these risks but concluded that "the alternative of inaction would
pose far greater risks ... to the remaining natural forests". In hindsight it is cleat that Item (a) above was not
really a risk, as the project itself was to create the necessary knowledge, but the lack of clarity about what
zoning entails did pose a risk, which was not recognized. Item (b) was clearly a risk, although not a major
one, as experience has shown that the limits of protected areas are not fully, but still reasonably, respected,
in part due to project activities. Item (c) was indeed a risk, less so for the possible factors mentioned in the
SAR, but rather due to the fact that the dynamics of land occupation and underlying political economy of
frontier areas were underestimated and poorly understood. As it turned out, fiscal constraints did not affect
staffing levels and quality (although this may have been a reasonable fear at the time), but they had other
severe consequences for implementation. Staffing constraints were, rightly or wrongly, overcome to a large
extent through the UNDP hiring mechanism (traditionally heavily used in foreign-financed projects in
Brazil and now restricted by Presidential Decree) and bonuses paid by UNDP.




                                                       - 14 -

Other major risks, however, were not identified. The overall weakness of the many state agencies was
recognized at appraisal, but turned out to be a much more significant risk than initially anticipated. Again,
technical assistance was proposed to remedy this deficiency. Another risk related to the structure of the
loans, which were extended to the Federal Government as Borrower, but were to be spent by the state
governments, even for funding of federal agencies such as FUNAI. Apart from state counterpart funds, all
project funds (loan and federal counterpart) flowed through the federal budget to the states, and were thus
vulnerable to the restrictions of federal budget management caused by the fiscal adjustment. This proved to
be an enormous bottleneck to the adequate flow of funds, particularly in the later years of implementation.

The combination of all the factors discussed above warrants an overall rating of unsatisfactory for quality
at entry.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Outcome is defined as the extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are
expected to be achieved, efficiently. The principal objective was: "to implement an improved approach ...
to natural resource management, conservation and development in one state (Rondonia) of the
environmentally fragile Amazon Basin."

This objective in itself is vague, and must be interpreted by taking the specific objectives (see section 3.1)
together as proxy for the aforementioned "improved approach". There is no doubt that principal and
specific objectives are still highly relevant today.

(a) Institute a series of changes in key policies, regulations and public investment programs in order to
provide a coherent incentive framework for sustainable development in Rondonia.

It is assumed that such policy changes were not (or should not have been) expected only from the State
Government of Rondonia, but from the Federal Government as well. There have been changes in policies,
regulations and investment programs in the direction of a more coherent incentives framework, but other
policies and practices remained unchanged and some investment programs continued to provide incoherent
or conflicting incentives. Certain desirable policies and regulations required are still not yet in place.

-    Rondonia has enacted or improved legislation on zoning, environmental management, environmental
     assessments, water resources management and fisheries, but not in all areas with adequate institutional
     arrangements or capacity. It has drafted legislation on the system of conservation units, on sustainable
     forestry and solid waste management, and submitted bills to the legislature. As one of a number of
     states in Brazil, most notably Parana and Minas Gerais, it now has a law on a "green sales tax" which
     provides incentives to municipalities to keep larger areas under conservation.
-    It has modestly enhanced its capacity to monitor and control water pollution and fisheries.
-    It has increased its conservation areas of all types from none to 46, although involving a smaller area
     than expected, and with as yet insufficient management and a frail legal basis as long as permanent use
     rights are not granted by the Federal Government.
-    Through the project, FUNAI has demarcated the remaining indigenous areas targeted under the project
     and found further isolated indigenous people, protecting 99% of the state's indigenous population;
-    INCRA has allegedly ceased from requiring land clearing as proof of ownership and effective use of
     land, and land reform settlements in primary forests have been prohibited.
-    The Federal Government has made changes to the land tax and increased forest reserve requirements;



                                                      - 15 -

-   Rondonia has begun to demonstrate sustainable forest management on a small scale.
-   The state has modestly improved its rural road network, water supply, health and education
    infrastructure.
-   Additional social capital (in the form of strengthened local NGOs and community associations) has
    been created and contributes a potentially important element in support of future sustainable
    development in the state;
-   At the Bank's instigation, it has commissioned a singular, outstanding document of diagnostics,
    scenarios and orientation for the sustainable development of the state ("ÚMIDAS" project, 1997-98),
    prepared with participation of stakeholders and opinion leaders in Rondonia, along the lines of Agenda
    21. It has later (2002) prepared a an updated comprehensive diagnostic as part of a State Development
    Strategy. The new state government has expressed its intention to utilize the "ÚMIDAS" study and
    agenda as a basis for its policies (and to support its intention to obtain continued Bank support).
-   Again at the Bank's request following the MTR, the project commissioned a high-quality study on state
    reform, giving especial attention to financial sustainability issues and providing detailed
    recommendations.

On the other hand:

-   As an overall indicator, the area of rain forest cleared increased by 57 % from about 3.7 million
    hectares , or 15% of the state's area in 1992, to about 5.8 million hectares or 24% of the total in 2000 .
    The average annual deforestation rate during the project period (1993 ­ 2000) was higher than in the
    1980s, while the same rate for the rest of the Amazon decreased (except for Mato Grosso). As a result,
    25% of the state's area had been deforested in 2000. A slight decrease in annual deforestation was,
    however, observed in 1999 and 2000. After 2000, deforestation rates increased.
-   Rondonia still has no working system of monitoring and controlling deforestation through a rural
    licensing system, similar to that in place in Mato Grosso.
-   Ten years later the "second approximation" zoning law as the main instrument to direct overall land
    use in the state is not yet truly effective, due to conflicts with federal law.
-   Regularization of land tenure outside conservation areas is far from complete, and many small-holder
    settlers are still not "emancipated" by INCRA with full titles.
-   The state has relied almost exclusively on a "command-and-control" approach to protect conservation
    areas and control deforestation. Aside from the "green sales tax", there are few other economic or
    political incentives to keep forests standing or ensure their sustainable use. It is recognized, however,
    that such incentives often require action and legislation by the Federal Government;
-   The creation of new settlements by INCRA did not consistently follow the existing zoning plan and
    principles of sustainable development.
-   IBAMA (the federal environmental protection agency) did not seek to coordinate its own actions with
    the plans and activities of the project and the state;
-   The Federal Government has not yet developed adequate policies and programs to (a) control
    unsustainable logging and (b) promote sustainable logging.
-   Alternative farming and land use models have not been effectively generated and disseminated and
    small-farmer credit has been discontinued, although credit is available for small settler farmers through
    the PRONAF rural family support program.

Relevance Rating: High
Efficacy Rating: Modest
Efficiency Rating: n/r

(b) Conserve the rich biodiversity of the State, while creating the basis for the sustainable utilization of its


                                                       - 16 -

natural resources for the direct economic benefit of the local population.
Rondonia has created an impressive array of conservation units (20% of the state's area), protects
indigenous populations on demarcated lands (20%) and dedicated (on paper) another extensive zone of
forest land to non-agricultural uses (Zone 2, 15% of the state's area). Effective protection of conservation
areas and indigenous lands is, however, still far from satisfactory, as management and enforcement
arrangements are either weak or not in place. The second part of this special objective is vague, and not of
the same order as the first one. If it meant sustainable use of standing forest, then the project has helped to
create and strengthen a system of extractive reserves, thus benefiting their residents, , and has laid some
conceptual, technical and legal ground for sustainable logging in private and state forests, without actually
yet getting this to work in the state. Otherwise, it is more appropriate to consider special objectives (a)
above, and (d), (e) and (f) below as more concrete interpretation of this vague goal.

Relevance: High
Efficacy: Modest
Efficiency: n/r

(c) Protect and enforce the borders of all conservation units, Amerindian reserves, public forests and
extractive reserves, and control and prevent illegal deforestation, wood transport and forest fires.
Effective enforcement of boundaries of conservation areas and indigenous reserves has been achieved under
the project, and substantial efforts were made in this direction. The organizational structure created for this
purpose, with coordination of several independent agencies, was, however, of doubtful efficacy and is
unlikely to be maintained after the project. Control of deforestation is hampered because a practical system
of licensing and control has not yet been implemented (as in Mato Grosso) and the land tenure situation
remains uncertain in many parts. Licensing and control of logging and timber transport is a federal
responsibility. While IBAMA headquarters has recently developed systems for such control, they are not
yet being applied.

Relevance: High
Efficacy: Low
Efficiency: Low

(d) Develop intensive and integrated farming systems in areas suitable for permanent agriculture and
agro-forestry, and systems for sustainable forest management and extraction of non-wood forest products
in other areas which should remain under natural forest cover.

With the termination of the agriculture/agro-forestry support component at mid-term, systematic attempts
at the development of sustainable agriculture and integrated agro-forestry farming systems were halted
(which is not to say that continuation of the component would have achieved this). Extraction of non-wood
forest products was promoted by the extractive reserves sub-component. There were two sustainable forest
management trials and creation of state forests, but sustainable logging has not been mainstreamed.
Policies and incentives in this direction, again, largely depend on the Federal Government. The new
component PADIC contributed little toward achieving this specific objective.

Relevance: High
Efficacy: Negligible
Efficiency: n/r

(e) Support priority investments in socio-economic infrastructure and services needed to implement the
State's agro-ecological zoning in already occupied and deforested areas.


                                                       - 17 -

As in the case of POLONOROESTE, infrastructure investments were made as planned during the first
phase of the project and mostly reached targets. Support of education and health services also made
promising starts, recognized by the MTR. After reformulation, this component was reduced to paving of
selected roads, but on a modest scale and far from the target, which gave some boost to local agriculture by
reducing transport costs. But these investments fell far short of what would be "needed to implement the
agro-ecological zoning". There was likely only a small impact in terms of making agricultural development
areas more attractive and keeping people from moving to urban areas or the "frontier". The spreading of
the new community development component (PAIC) over the entire state meant that any regard for
distinctions related to zones were overlooked.

Relevance: High
Efficacy: Modest
Efficiency: Modest

(f) Consolidate the technical and operational capacity of State institutions, particularly those responsible
for agricultural and forestry support services, and the protection and management of State and Federal
conservation units and Amerindian reserves. Environmental Policy Reform Program.
Efforts to "consolidate" state institutional capacities in a five-year project were clearly overly ambitious.
The project temporarily created capacity in several institutions, with technical assistance from UNDP. Very
little of that remained at the end. ITERON, the land institute, has disappeared (probably because it had no
practical role in a state where most land is under INCRA authority). Capacity for (continuation of) zoning
embodied in the technical zoning committee has been largely disbanded, although a "territorial (land use)
management" unit has been formally set up, with very limited resources and organization. The new state
government claims to be interested in keeping and strengthening this function. However, the impact of
many years of attempting to strengthen the state environmental agency, SEDAM, has been particularly
disappointing, largely due to the lack of political support by government. An attempt was made to create
capacity for control of the boundaries of conservation and indigenous areas and for environmental law
enforcement, , but will likely not be maintained. No "federal pact" between IBAMA and SEDAM has yet
been possible in order to devolve responsibility for certain environmental management and control functions
to the state and to define conflicting or overlapping roles more clearly. Research and extension services
remain weak, as efforts to reform them were abandoned after the MTR. Forestry support services are
limited, but could be sustained and expanded.

Relevance: High
Efficacy: Negligible
Efficiency: n/r

Additional objectives were implicitly introduced after the MTR and relate to quality of life of rural
communities (and poverty reduction), the social organization of communities and the strengthening of civil
society organizations. Quality of life has been improved to some degree locally through the PAIC
component in terms of infrastructure and services, but in a non-spatially strategic way; income and
employment effects are uncertain, but have probably been quite modest. Sustainability of infrastructure,
social services and productive investments is highly doubtful however, due to the lack of provisions made
(and required) for their operation and maintenance. Social capital through community organization was
indeed created, and NGOs became stronger as a result of their participation in decision-making and
supervisory committees, as well as directly through their involvement in PAIC subprojects. The end of the
project and of the financial resources that came with it may, however, have an adverse impact on the
organization of civil society in Rondonia, as local NGOs have now lost the principal source of "leverage"
(i.e., the Bank as a strategic ally) they had in relation to state government decision making. In addition,


                                                       - 18 -

PAIC most likely failed to provide a critical mass of economically, financially and environmentally
sustainable sub-projects and, thus, an opportunity to make a lasting impact in terms of reducing poverty
and improving environmental and natural resource management. The actual impact of the component
remains to be determined.

Relevance: High
Efficacy: Modest
Efficiency: Low

Taken together, the achievements under the specific objectives represent limited progress towards the
"implementation of an improved approach to natural resource management, conservation and development"
in Rondonia. Overall relevance remains high, overall efficacy ranges from modest to negligible. Overall
efficiency is difficult to assess in this type of project, but given the exceedingly long implementation period
and high overhead costs, as well as the high cost of zoning and the likely low economic returns of PADIC
component, is rated as low. For these reasons, project impact is rated unsatisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The project structure and description by components and sub-components changed from the SAR to the
amended loan agreement. The text attempts to follow the SAR, while reflecting also changes made in the
amendment. There are no performance indicators available, only certain physical output and input targets
as given in the SAR.

(A) Environmental Conservation, Management and Protection, to help conserve the state's biodiversity
and create a basis for sustainable utilization of natural resources. (Appraisal US$57.3 million , actual US$
57.5 million ). This large component comprised seven sub-components, reduced to five by the amendment
to the Loan Agreement following the MTR. The grouping of activities changed considerably at the time of
this revision.

Land Regularization and Zoning (Appraisal US$18.7 million , actual US$ 33.1 million )

The description of this sub-component in different parts of the SAR was confusing and internally
inconsistent. The commonality among its elements was the executing agency, Rondonia's land agency
ITERON, with support from INCRA and FUNAI. It included development of legal measures and policies
for land tenure regularization, preparation and distribution of statewide, "small-scale" agro-ecological,
climatologic, soil and topographic maps, creation of a land registration system, cartographic work
necessary for the demarcation of state conservation areas of all kinds and indigenous lands, permanent
titling of 500 sharecropper families, as well as overall institutional support to ITERON. The amendment of
the Loan Agreement in 1998 separated zoning from land regularization and more clearly defined the content
and outputs of the latter, , while also adding a public information campaign on zoning. The amendment also
added supporting technical work for the transfer of federal lands to the state for the purpose of biodiversity
conservation.

Zoning

Through the instrument of rural land-use "zoning", it was felt that the unsatisfactory pattern of land
settlement observed in Rondonia during the implementation of POLONOROESTE could be rationalized
and brought under greater control. It was hoped that the technical/scientific underpinning of zoning studies
would help increase the acceptability of land use restrictions and reduce emotional reactions of
stakeholders. Rondonia's initial zoning plan, known as the "first approximation", was based on soil surveys



                                                        - 19 -

and radar mapping undertaken in the 1970's and prepared by FAO in 1987 at a scale of 1: 1 million. It was
largely concerned with defining spatially (but crudely) the suitability of land for agriculture. The "first
approximation" divided the state into six "agro-economic zones". Despite its agricultural bias, the zoning
plan placed some 60% of the state's territory off-limits to traditional farming. It was issued as state decree
in 1988, and eventually adopted as state law by the Legislative Assembly in 1991. As zoning was
unpopular in many parts of the state, the government was not anxious to give it much public prominence,
and failed to mount an early and effective communication strategy.

State government and Bank staff knew that the "first approximation" was too crude a guide to the state's
future occupation and development. It was hoped that a more detailed "second approximation" would
improve the usefulness and acceptability of zoning in the state. Thus, the preparation of a refined zoning
plan was included as central element of the project strategy, to be ready within a year (The SAR
implementation schedule says five years). It was to be based on a comprehensive new data base and
published as zoning maps on a scale of 1:250,000.

The SAR did not specifically define "zoning", except in terms of the preparation and distribution of small
scale agro-ecological, climatologic, soil and topographic maps (meaning actually larger-scale maps of
1:250,000). The revised Loan Agreement understood zoning as an instrument of which map preparation
was only a part and added a zoning information/awareness campaign, staff training and a state zoning data
bank to its scope. At the time of appraisal, there was little clarity on the part of either the Bank or the state
government with respect to the meaning of or process of zoning. From the outset, however, zoning was
considered by both the Bank and government as an eminently technical/scientific exercise of making and
combining thematic maps. Public consultations before or during the technical work were not considered.
Implementation by the land agency ITERON (which had no capacity for zoning, even with the help of
consultants) was substituted by the contracting of a firm. More than three years were required to agree on
terms of reference, select a firm (international consortium) and sign a contract. The contract required
diagnostic work on an array of physical, biological and socio-economic themes, the development of
scenarios, a zoning proposal and a new draft law. It also included staff training in the state Planning
Secretariat and production of a database containing all the information collected and used for zoning.

As in the case of Mato Grosso, the resource and time requirements for the zoning exercise were severely
underestimated by all. The consultants' first zoning proposal was delivered in late 1999. The state put in
place, belatedly, an adequate technical zoning group that accompanied and received the consultants' work.
The group did not accept the firm's proposal and hired its own consultant to prepare a separate zoning
map, which was actually more realistic regarding actual land use and showed other technical
improvements. After serious conflicts, the firm presented a revised proposal in June 1999. However, the
full set of products, including the database, was not delivered until late 2002, because of lengthy
negotiations on a contract amendment. The total cost of the contract was US$ 21.3 million . The overall
cost of zoning under the project was US$32.3 million . The cost per unit of area in Rondonia
(US$133/km2) was three times more than that of Mato Grosso (US$40.3/km2), with a similar level of
effort, in large part due to the higher initial price negotiated with the international consortium. The delays
and cost overruns were the result of work stoppages by the firm related in good measure to shortfalls and
delays in funding by both the state and federal governments. .

The thematic products of the compilation phase of the work were satisfactory (though not as good as
similar products in Mato Grosso) and will be of value to the state in the future. The consultant integrated
these in an excellent "Diagnostics" report and prepared a satisfactory zoning proposal, , including
ecosystem considerations relevant to environmental planning (which was one of the difficulties of the
consulting firm responsible for the zoning studies in Mato Grosso). Scenarios outlined trends and


                                                       - 20 -

cost/benefit analyses of development options, which were in turn applied to each landscape unit of the
zoning map to give planning recommendations. In sum, Rondonia (as with Mato Grosso) has one of the
most comprehensive natural resource and socioeconomic databases of any jurisdiction in the world.

Different from Mato Grosso, zoning went beyond technical work. The zoning proposal was discussed by
some 1,500 people (community leaders, politicians, mayors and stakeholders) in workshops in ten locations
of the state, including the Legislative Assembly. Modest alterations were made in the zoning plan as a
result of these consultations, particularly in the corridors of the two major lateral roads (BR-421 and
BR-429) where traditional land use (deforestation) was expanding. The legislature passed the modified
"second approximation" as law in June 2000 without major controversies. The law defines three major
zones, with 10 sub-zones.

Little progress has been achieved, however, in actually implementing the new zoning plan. One of the
reasons is a conflict between state law and federal forest legislation. In 1996, the Federal Government
increased the proportion of individual rural properties to be kept under forest cover ("legal reserve") from
50% to 80% in the Amazon, without consulting local interests. This was met with dissatisfaction
throughout the region. Political leaders in Rondonia were among the most outspoken opponents. The
"second approximation" sought to reflect realities rather than some abstract ideal. Occupation of the state
had taken place mainly under the provisions of the lower (50%) legal reserve rule (which, in fact, had never
really been enforced). Most of the areas of older settlement along the central BR-364 highway had been
cleared to 70-100% when the new law was adopted. The new zoning plan defined legal reserve
requirements in Zone 1 from 20% to 80%, varying according to sub-zone, which put the law in conflict
with federal forestry law. In Zones 2 and 3, , covering about half of the state's territory, no new forest
clearing is permitted. Arithmetically, the current law would imply the preservation of 68% of Rondonia's
forest cover. A compromise solution was negotiated and signed with the Federal Government in 2001,
calling for legal reserve requirements in the most developed zones of 50% and requiring reforestation over
30 years. This agreement remains to be ratified by the state legislature as an amendment to the State zoning
law. Until this occurs, the zoning law remains inapplicable.

Aside from this legal conflict, there is apparently little opposition to the new zoning law in Rondonia. This
may be due to the fact - much criticized by environmentalists in Brazil - that the current law legalizes much
of the clearing and development that had already taken place. It, indeed, puts a larger area (50%) into the
agriculture/ranching zone than the first approximation (42%). Representatives of major interest groups
express interest in upholding the zoning prescriptions and adopting more sustainable natural resource use
practices, including reforestation and sustainable forest management. INCRA appears to have resigned to
the fact that new settlements will be severely limited by zoning in Rondonia, and the state's Environment
Secretariat denies clearing licenses where in areas where this is inconsistent with the zoning law. The new
state government declared its commitment to the zoning plan and its interest in having it effectively
implemented, if possible with Bank support.

Zoning implementation requires an effective system to link zoning maps with data on land use at the
property level, as is currently possible in Mato Grosso. In principle, rural property owners could be
required to obtain environmental licenses for their properties containing geo-referenced information on
current and proposed land use, including the reserves mandated by law. Compliance with the state zoning
law could then be monitored by satellite imagery, as in Mato Grosso. A serious obstacle is the large
number of relatively small rural properties (62,7 % less than 100 ha) in Rondonia. The absence of a link
between zoning and actual land use at the property level has two adverse effects. First, many producers are
not aware of "their" zone and engage in land uses that may or may not be consistent with the law. Second,
they are being denied access to official credit as they are unable to prove compliance with zoning laws. The


                                                      - 21 -

state government intends to establish a licensing system with technical assistance from Mato Grosso. In the
meantime, simplified temporary licenses are being issued to producers to permit them to obtain rural credit.

Skeptics of the progress Rondonia has made with zoning question the political power of state government
to effectively direct the occupation of the state's land in accordance with the zoning plan and to resolve
related conflicts. Others doubt that much has changed in the mentality of the population, and fear that
economic and political forces will defend traditional land occupation. This remains to be seen.
Small-farmer representatives in a stakeholders meeting welcomed zoning and recognized actual changes in
awareness and attitude to land use. In terms of basic conditions for change - knowledge generated and
institutional change (zoning plan and law) - much has been achieved that may eventually help bring about
more sustainable development in Rondonia.

Despite the considerable implementation delays and high cost, on balance, the zoning sub-component was
satisfactory, with the exception of inadequate institutional capacity left behind within the state after its
completion.

Land Tenure Regularization

Rondonia was transformed from a federal territory into a state in 1981. Initially, there was virtually no
state controlled public land; most was in the federal or private domain. The dominant agency with regard to
land use was INCRA, and the military had oversight over the 150 km wide international border strip, which
covered a good part of Rondonia. Land rights were confusing and uncertain. The project strategy rightly
included a strong emphasis on land regularization, mainly with a view towards creation of conservation
units, but also to clarify property rights for farmers or forest owners. The amendment to the Loan
Agreement following the MTR modified and clarified the initial SAR targets. The revised targets and
results are as follows:

   Revised Targets                                            Results
Land regularization for 6,300 settlement plots               1085 plots titled
Inspection of 1,100 (larger) properties with federal       679 properties inspected, of which 20% with
land sale contracts for compliance with conditions         irregularities, but no land was repossessed
Technical work necessary for transfer of federal land Surveys and cadastral work for 38 areas
to the state, for nine conservation units                  completed, of which 3 areas were transferred,
                                                           12 are awaiting approval in the National
                                                           Congress, 12 are in process within in the
                                                           federal government, and 11 under
                                                           consideration of the Defense Department
                                                           (border strip land). Lands will not be
                                                           transferred to the state's domain, instead,
                                                           (revocable) use rights would be given to the
                                                           state.
Demarcation of six protected areas                         Eight areas demarcated
Demarcation of Massaco indigenous land and                 Four indigenous lands, identified in the
registration of Karipuna indigenous land                   search for "isolated" Indians, were
                                                           demarcated by the project; FUNAI
                                                           demarcated Massaco with own funds.
                                                           Karipuna was not registered yet.
  Land transaction data base                                 Not implemented



                                                      - 22 -

ITERON had been a weak land agency "without land" from the beginning, largely dependent on l INCRA,
and was subsequently extinguished in 2000. Its functions and personnel were transferred to the state
Secretariat for Environmental Development (SEDAM). There was little interest in regularization of
smallholder (settler) properties as shown by the meager results. INCRA's main interest in Rondonia has
been the establishment of new settlements and recognition of spontaneous settlers outside them.

Positive results were achieved, however, in the identification, survey, creation and demarcation of
conservation areas and in the demarcation of indigenous lands. At the time of project conception, no state
conservation units existed at all. Several such areas were established by state government decree at the
Bank's insistence before negotiations, and the creation of others was covenanted in the Project Agreement.
The following areas were demarcated, all on federal land (and, in as far as they had not been created before
project begin, also legally created):

-        eight conservation units of "indirect use, i.e., strict protection (against eight at appraisal)
-        three municipal parks (five at appraisal)
-        24 state extractive reserves and (six at appraisal)
-        11 state "sustainable yield" forests (seven at appraisal)
-        5 indigenous areas (five at appraisal)

As a result, 4.75 million hectares, or 20% of Rondonia's total land area are set aside for conservation
(including federal units), and 4.81 million hectares (20%) as indigenous lands. The area of state
conservation units is less (58%) than that foreseen at appraisal, due to erroneous assumptions regarding the
availability of suitable and unoccupied land in the "first approximation" zoning. The creation and
demarcation of conservation units encountered numerous conflicts not only with settlers and loggers, but
also with INCRA and FUNAI. The project also renewed the demarcation of twelve indigenous areas along
1,399 km (appraisal 1,638 km) that had already been demarcated under POLONOROESTE, for an area of
about 670,000 ha, some of them renewed twice.

The transfer of 39 areas from federal to state domain, agreed in the loan amendment, is still pending: about
one third are waiting in the National Congress (outside control of the federal executive), one third are "in
process" within federal departments, and about one third are not being cleared by the Defense Department
for national security reasons, as they are located in the border strip (where the Ministry of Defense prefers
populous settlements to unpopulated conservation areas). INCRA acted in this context like an owner of
these federal lands, "returning" areas destined for land reform to the Federal Government. . It has also
been decided that property would not actually be transferred to the state, but that the Union would cede
specific (limited) use rights ("cessão de uso") to the state, which could be revoked. This does not require
approval in Congress. The matter of the land transfers is one in which the Borrower has not lived up to the
Loan Agreement. With demarcation, vigilance and the informal tolerance of the Union, the tenure issue is
currently not of great importance, unless transfer or use rights are officially refused, in which case the
conservation units would be left in a tenuous legal situation.

(From here onwards, the structure of sub-components follows the amended loan agreement).

Management of Protected Areas of Indirect Use (Appraisal: US$ 8.1 million , actual US$4.6 million )

The SAR foresaw the establishment and maintenance of eight state conservation units of "indirect use"
(strict protection). The list of these units changed during implementation, but the number remained the


                                                      - 23 -

same, involving a smaller area than initially foreseen. Most of the investments in infrastructure, equipment,
management plans, socio-economic and rapid ecological surveys, were carried out, with some funding of
incremental operating costs. Management of units, however, has been weak or non-existent. Rehabilitation
of four federal conservation units largely failed due to difficult relations between the state and the federal
environmental agency (IBAMA). The amendment to the Loan Agreement listed the following activities
after reformulation:

                         Target                                                   Results

    Improvement of Rondonia's environmental                 State Zoning Law approved. Draft bill of law on
    policies and legal framework with respect to            a State System of Conservation Units is in the
    natural resource conservation                           State Legislative Assembly, but not yet approved.
                                                            Distribution of sales tax revenue to municipalities
                                                            according to area under protection. State Water
                                                            Resources Management Law, State Fisheries Law
                                                            adopted. State Forest Law and Solid Waste bills
                                                            in Assembly.

 Preparation of co-management plans for three state No specific action (see next item)
 parks; environmental assessment studies for seven
 conservation areas

 Implementation of pilot co-management of three           One firm, two NGOs contracted as consultants in

 state parks                                              2001 for co-management. One contract cancelled,
                                                          two ongoing without further project funding.

    Preparation and implementation of an                    Three NGOs contracted as consultants; all
    integrated environmental education program              contracts were canceled due to performance
    around three state parks                                problems.



The state has made progress with regard to its environmental legislation, although not all bills submitted by
the state government have been passed by the Legislative Assembly. In consultation with the Bank, the
state embarked on a risky co-management plan for three state parks: consultant firms were hired to manage
the parks under terms of reference and supervision of SEDAM, with remuneration during a first year, and
with the obligation to generate their own resources for operation during the following four years, to
minimize the state's cost with this task. This experiment has had only partial success so far. Great
difficulties were faced in finding and selecting suitable firms, in elaborating terms of reference, and
eventually in managing the consultant's contracts during the last nine months of the project, when severe
performance problems surfaced. One contract was won by a commercial firm, the other two by NGOs with
little experience for the job. The firm performed satisfactorily, while the NGOs did not, at least initially.
One of the NGO contracts was cancelled, one maintained. A serious challenge for the consultants is the
raising of funds for operation after the first year, particularly because the parks' remote location is not
likely to attract eco-tourism. The feasibility of this approach in Rondonia remains to be seen.
Environmental education contracts, all with NGOs, were carried out by NGO consultants with low effort
and dedication during the last year of the project, and were eventually all cancelled. Contract management
by the state has been a particular challenge.

Management of Protected Areas of Direct Use (Appraisal: n/a, actual US$7.9 million )




                                                       - 24 -

"Direct use" conservation areas allow for certain economic activities and, partly, also for dwelling rights
inside. This sub-component comprised the preparation of utilization plans for "extractive reserves" created
and demarcated under the land regularization sub-component, implementation of sustainable forest
management, and model health and education services for extractive communities. Unrelated to "direct use"
areas, it also included the identification of isolated indigenous groups and health services for indigenous
populations.

Extractive reserves

Extractive reserves are conservation areas inhabited by traditional communities of rubber tappers and
Brazil nut gatherers, where the responsibility for vigilance and conservation is assumed by the reserve
inhabitants under a concession from the government (federal or state). The concession is awarded only if an
utilization plan has been developed and approved. Extractive reserves were, and still are, held by many as
innovative and outstanding examples of sustainable development and conservation in the rain forest.
Reserves are managed by associations. The rubber tappers organized themselves nationally in the late
1980s against the former landlords of the rubber concessions and against the threat of advancing cattle
ranches. In Rondonia , they represented the most outspoken and organized civil society group, despite their
relatively small numbers, and influenced the design and later had substantial impact on project
implementation.

The project surveyed 28 extractive reserves, demarcated 24, and created eventually 21 on 1.30 million ha
(as against six reserves and 3.5 million ha at appraisal), mostly on the edges of the state. The population
benefited is about 620 families, roughly equivalent to appraisal expectations. Utilization plans were
developed with reserve inhabitants for all 21 reserves, as were two forest inventories and three
"development plans". The project also helped with the development of production, storage and marketing,
not only for rubber and Brazil nuts, but also for new products (rubberized cloth, babassu meal),
eco-tourism (two model projects), radio communications, and equipment and infrastructure for reserve
associations. Training in multiple subjects of practical interest to extractivists was carried out. An
education program specifically designed for the highly dispersed families within the communities and
training of community teachers was designed and implemented, and ten schools were constructed. Ten
health posts were built and others equipped, together with the training of community "health agents".
Health and education services are, however, still inadequate, and it is now recognized that these functions
must be assumed by the local governments. Institutional capacity within the state government (SEDAM) to
deal effectively with the demands and opportunities of extractive reserves remains inadequate.

Incomes and quality of life in the reserves have improved, but probably much less than expected. Their
sustainability is uncertain, at least without continuing government support in recognition of the
"environmental services" provided by these communities. While the population of the reserves increased
during the project period with a reflux of urban dwellers, in large part due to higher (subsidized) rubber
prices, the overall level of income from extractive activities remains low. Increasingly, sustainable
extraction of timber is being discussed (as foreseen at appraisal), and in small parts of some of these areas
starting to be implemented.
Extractive reserves are an important element of the system of conservation units in the state (30% of area)
and probably less costly to manage and protect than areas of "indirect use". Development of labor
productivity and social services in the reserves helps reduce poverty, even if for a relatively small
population. However, the most important result of the project may have been to boost the social and
political organization of rubber tappers in Rondonia, and indirectly to the overall level of organization of
civil society in the state.




                                                       - 25 -

Indigenous Welfare

The indigenous population in Rondonia has grown by 10% during the project period to 6,150 people - a
highly positive indicator for protection and well-being of a traditionally severely threatened ethnic group.
Equally remarkably, around 99% of the state's indigenous population now lives in areas with demarcated
boundaries; the remainder has been identified as a result of the project as "isolated groups" without any
previous contact with modern civilization. The stakeholder workshop in February 2003 unanimously
concluded that the indigenous peoples of Rondonia were the greatest beneficiaries of PLANAFLORO. It is
also noteworthy that this was achieved through a state project, in collaboration with, but not upon the
initiative of, FUNAI, the federal agency responsible for indigenous affairs. (The project supported FUNAI
with equipment and vehicles.) Another significant achievement is the active participation of indigenous
groups in the project, not just as passive recipients, even as members of the Project Council, as well as their
progressive organization as part of the civil society movement in the state, furthering their autonomy and
bargaining position vis-à-vis the government. (I Indigenous associations increased from six to 30 during the
project period). Finally, it is remarkable that the current government's evaluation of the indigenous
development under PLANAFLORO affirms that this part of the project "has contributed much to the
development of the state as a whole". Indigenous lands remain, however, susceptible to threats and
invasions, most recently by the Landless Movement (MST) in the area of the Uru-Eu-Wau-Wau.

The project supported a sub-program for indigenous health, including the contracting of 40 health
professionals, formation of mobile health teams initially (only possible through UNDP, later discontinued),
housing for nurse assistants, construction of eight health posts, training of 64 indigenous health agents,
vaccinations, medical supplies, etc. Unfortunately, no impact indicators are available, but an independent
evaluation mentions improvements in indigenous health. The project likewise promoted 64 economic
sub-projects to improve productivity and processing, introduce new products and farming systems and to
support fishing and fish tanks. Furthermore, several of the PAIC sub-projects (see further below) were
proposed and implemented by indigenous groups.

Overall, unlike the experience with POLONOROESTE, support to indigenous communities is considered
one of the most successful parts of the project. A great preoccupation, however, is the discontinuity of
services and support at the end of a project which provided most of the resources for these activities. Such
resources will not be available through FUNAI and its regular budget. Thus, sustainability of these
activities is not assured.

Forest Management

The SAR foresaw a strategic role for sustainable forms of logging. Logging and timber processing have
been a mainstay of Rondonia's industry, and have gone hand-in-hand with the land clearing process driven
by rural settlements, along with selective ("predatory") logging of primary forests, with and (mainly)
without authorization . Were loggers to adopt and implement sustainable management plans, there would
be an economic interest in maintaining forests. State forests of "sustained yield" were to serve as
government-overseen areas for such activity. Eleven state forests were created and demarcated (as against
seven at appraisal), but with the greatest difficulty in finding unoccupied land where the "first
approximation" zoning had indicated (Zone 5). Thus, only 756,000 hectares are in state forests today, as
compared with the appraisal target of 1.8 million ha. This, in itself, is nevertheless a valuable result, as it
sets aside areas that cannot be used without state authorization.

Several programs, management proposals and terms of reference were prepared, and two forest inventories


                                                      - 26 -

were carried out. A State Forest Law, defining the modalities of the use of state forests, has been submitted
to the legislature, but has not yet been approved. A forestry technical school and a seed bank of native tree
species were established. However, implementation of a first phase of a sustainable management model has
begun only in one area. As a result, the state has at its disposal the technical and legal instruments to
promote sustainable forest management, but has to date demonstrated little in terms of technology,
feasibility and profitability to the private sector. Interestingly, timber interests in the state acknowledge that
"predatory" logging needs to be phased out in favor of sustainable management, and refer to the vast areas
available and designated for this purpose by the second approximation zoning law. (They downplay
reliance on cheap and even legal timber from forest clearing in settlements as now irrelevant for timber
supply.) The state government estimates that about 5.7 million ha, or about 23% of the area of the state,
are potentially available for forest management on public and private lands, including extractive reserves.

Protection of Natural Resources, Law Enforcement and Institutional Strengthening

This sub-component was intended to build up capacity of several agencies concerned with enforcement of
environmental and forest law, to foster their coordination, and carry out monitoring, field inspections,
licensing and control activities. These were to be targeted at protecting the boundaries of conservation units
and indigenous lands, controlling timber transport and processing and polluting industries. The state
environmental agency, SEDAM, and its human resources were to be strengthened, initially in a general way
(training and field offices) and, after project reformulation, for production of data on the environment
(forest cover, burnings, river pollution, climate, licensing and monitoring of timber industries).

The project initially supported strengthening of both the Forest Police Battalion (building, vehicles,
equipment) and SEDAM (equipment, vehicles, labs, field offices) as well as training of the personnel of the
two agencies as relevant for law enforcement activities. As in the Mato Grosso project, in 1995 an effort
was made to introduce a strategic and cooperative form of law enforcement, including all relevant actors
(IBAMA, SEDAM, forest police, FUNAI, independent State Attorney's office, NGOs, etc.) through the
Inter-institutional Environmental Law Enforcement Committee (CIFA). While hundreds of operations were
indeed carried out, including removal of intruders from protected areas, the impact of this effort is generally
judged as poor, due to lack of leadership, lack of agencies' willingness to cooperate effectively and in a
timely way, and lack of strategic planning, reflecting weak political support for such enforcement. After
1997, the forest battalion was reduced to a mere fraction of its initial strength, half of the 26 SEDAM field
offices were closed, and a large contingent of SEDAM personnel were laid off in 2000 as part of a general
public sector staff reduction.

Rondonia strengthened its legal framework during the project period, including the new zoning law,
regulation of environmental assessments, a draft bill on the system of conservation units, a water resources
law, a fisheries law, a solid waste disposal law, and a draft bill of a sustainable forestry law. A law on
distribution of revenues of the state sales tax (ICMS) that favors municipalities proportionally to the extent
of their area in conservation units (some municipalities have more than 80% of their territory under
conservation). However, due to constant pressure of dissatisfied stakeholders, repeated attempts have been
made in the Legislative Assembly to amend the first zoning law (in favor of additional land clearing in the
restricted zones 4 and 5), These were generally successful, even over vetoes by the Governor.

In spite of ample project support to SEDAM with training, equipment, infrastructure and excellent
technical assistance through UNDP, the agency increased its capacity and strength only minimally.
Frequent management turnover, inadequately qualified, unstable and poorly paid staff, staff reductions,
political interference and a low political priority given by the state government to environmental
management all contributed to the failure of institutional strengthening of SEDAM. This was partly but


                                                        - 27 -

only temporarily compensated by the service and quality of staff responsible for overseeing the
environmental component in the project coordination unit, now disbanded.

There are, however, recent promising signs of a higher priority being given by the new state government to
the effective functioning of SEDAM, including the appointment of one of the most highly qualified and
experienced officials in environmental management in Brazil as chief of the agency, and the establishment
of directorates for conservation units and environmental education. The rural licensing system for control
of clear-felling, introduced by and copied from Mato Grosso, may yet be implemented in Rondonia with
support from the PPG7.

The project included support to environmental education, considered essential for changes in land use and
natural resource conservation in Rondonia. Several small initiatives were implemented, but can generally be
judged as incipient, uncoordinated and lacking a strategic vision. Environmental education around three
state parks was begun and then cancelled in the last 12 months of the project. However, an inter-agency
committee for environmental education, abandoned in 1998 by SEDAM, is being revived with the
participation of local governments and NGOs, and raises the possibility that this line of action will be
gradually transformed from a "pamphlet perspective" to a strategic one.

Thus the project ended with an adequate legal, but weak institutional, framework for environmental
protection and management. The omission of municipal governments in environmental management and
control is a further weakness. This was, however, an omission already present in project design and the
SAR. A redeeming result is the very significant strengthening of civil society in the course of the project,
due in large measure to the support of international environmental NGOs (such as OXFAM, WWF and
Friends of the Earth) and, secondarily, the Bank, which may continue to accompany the state's
environmental policies and actions and be a continuing source of pressure on local authorities for pursuit of
a more sustainable development path in the state..

(B) Agro-forestry Development, including agro-forestry research, rural extension, rural credit and
input supply (appraisal: US$71.8 million , actual US$35.3 million );

Agro-forestry research (appraisal US$12.7 million , actual US$4.6 million).

At appraisal, the Bank was supporting the Third Brazil Agricultural Research Project, which emphasized
basic research for the Northeast and North regions. The project's agro-forestry component was to
complement this and concentrate on adaptative research in Rondonia. The research and extension
sub-component was to focus on mixed cropping systems, improved forest fallow management systems,
agro-forestry cropping systems and crop diversification into alternative tree crops on soils of lesser fertility.
The project would finance equipment, infrastructure, vehicles and training for extension agents
(management of forest-fallow, agro-forestry, forest management and farm budget analysis). Three
institutions were in charge of research, the Agro-forestry Research Center of the Brazilian Agricultural
Research Company (EMBRAPA), the Brazilian cocoa development agency (CEPLAC) and SEDAM. The
research sub-component concentrated mainly on the institutional strengthening of the implementing
agencies by constructing offices, purchasing equipment and vehicles and operating costs, in part through
time-slice funding of existing agencies. Integration between research and extension was weak. Some
agro-forestry, fallow management and cocoa research was carried out, but little was generated in terms of
solid appropriate technologies suitable for dissemination to small farmers.

Rural extension (appraisal US$ 39.1 million , actual US$ 21.9 million).




                                                     - 28 -

Rural extension was intended to support the diffusion and adoption of appropriate technologies devised
under the agro-forestry research sub-component. The public rural extension agencies , EMATER and
CEPLAC, were to deliver the services. Lack of commitment with project goals and institutional resistance
to change hindered service delivery, at least initially. A program for gradual privatization of the extension
services was prepared with UNDP Technical Assistance, but did not receive government support and was
thus not implemented. The number of farmers assisted by CEPLAC and EMATER (~66,000) was
reportedly higher than appraisal targets. Training events and demonstration plots were carried out, but
reached only a fraction of farmers. Again, the project provided essentially time-slice funding and
incremental investments.

Rural Credit (appraisal US$ 28.5 million , actual US$ 8.2 million ).

The agricultural development strategy outlined in the SAR was based heavily on the provision of rural
credit, through the FUNDAGRO credit fund, and more liberal eligibility criteria for landholders to access
loans. In total, over the period 1993-1997, the credit sub-component disbursed only 29% of the total
envisaged at appraisal and attended only 12% of the intended number of farmers. The main reasons for this
were: i) the burdensome procedures established in the FUNDAGRO manual, oriented more to satisfy
federal credit norms than the needs of small producers; ii) lengthy approval and disbursement procedures of
BERON, the State Bank of Rondonia; and iii) the time-consuming procedures of EMATER in the
preparation of project proposals. FUNDAGRO financed 3,651 ha of annual/ perennial crop systems and
3,099 ha of annual crops, traction and dairy cattle, and farm equipment, leaving the objective of the credit
sub-component largely unattained. . Following cancellation of this sub-component after the Mid Term
Review and the liquidation of BERON, the delinquent portfolio increased from about 2% to more than
40%. It is worth noticing, however, as in the case of the private credit cooperatives of Pimenta Bueno and
Ouro Preto, that with simplified procedures even a large demand and a considerable number of small
farmers could be attended. Remarkably, these two credit cooperatives currently attend about 7000 small
farmers.

Input Supply. (Appraisal US$ 1.1 million , actual US$ 0.6 million )

The input supply sub-component envisaged the establishment, over a two year period, of four nurseries in
addition to the supply of seeds, seedlings, fertilizers and pesticides to farmers. By the time of the Mid Term
Review (1996), however, through the state Agricultural Secretariat,, the project had established only one
seed laboratory including infrastructure and purchase of equipment and tools.

The actual output of the agro-forestry component has been unsatisfactory because of: i) lack of political
support by the state government to research and extension; ii) lack of managerial vision by the head
managers of the local research and extension services, inability to work out a plan for integrating research
and extension systems, and reluctance to accept innovations suggested under UNDP technical cooperation ;
iii) lack of technical information for small farmers, suitable for overall farm planning and integrated crop
rotation system and based on cost-benefit analysis; and iv) unwillingness of BERON to introduce simplified
and efficient credit procedures for small farmers access to credit. The latter is not surprising in view of the
general disinterest of commercial and state banks in dealing with small credits and small producers. From
1993 to 2000, the area and production of subsistence crops fell in Rondonia, while yields remained stable.
The areas of cocoa, cotton and soybean remained stable during this period, but those for maize decreased
while those for coffee increased after 1998. Yields for commercial crops remained stable, except for a rise
in soybean productivity.

The unsatisfactory implementation of the agro-forestry component was pointed out by the Mid Term


                                                      - 29 -

Review in 1996. Subsequently, representatives of civil society organizations negotiated with the State
Government the substitution of the agro-forestry research, extension and credit subcomponents by a
program of support to community initiatives (PAIC). The rating for this component is highly
unsatisfactory.

(C) Socio-economic Infrastructure & Services (Appraisal US$ 61.8 million , actual US$ 70.3 million )
including a two-year time slice of essential activities in health, education and water supply, and a five year
time slice of road and river transport activities.


Health, Education and Water Supply (appraisal US$ 14.5 million , actual US$ 13.3 million ).

The main objective of these sub-components was consolidation of the existing health, education and water
supply systems in the agricultural development zone (Zone 1) of Rondonia, to provide it with better social
infrastructure than other zones, in the hope of stemming migration to forested areas. As a young state,
Rondonia had minimal social infrastructure in the early 1990s. During 1993-1997, the health and education
subcomponents achieved, for the most part, results well above appraisal targets, while water supply
systems fell 30% short of the target. The project funded lay-teacher training, rehabilitation of school
buildings, and innovative rural education initiatives ("French" model - 14 days in school, 14 days at home).
Health centers and health posts were renovated, equipped and stocked, and 800 rural health agents trained.
As a first incipient support to decentralization of services, 25 innovative health sub-projects were funded
with participation of the municipalities, beneficiary communities and NGOs. Health and educational
infrastructure is largely still being used and maintained in partnership with municipal governments. No
information is available on the decentralized community health initiatives. Sixteen water supply systems
were built or restored and a total of 2178 homes connected, as against 23 foreseen at appraisal. With only
14 systems in Rondonia in 1992, the project nevertheless doubled that capacity. The implementation of
these sub-components was terminated in 1997, following the MTR, after agreement between the state
government and the NGO movement.
It is noteworthy that the independent mid-term evaluation saw the health and education sub-components as
important and positive, particularly as the project was the only source for these social services in Rondonia.
The quality of water supply systems was criticized, however.

Road and River Transport. (Appraisal US$ 57.0 million , actual US$ 57.0 million ).

The main objective of this sub-component was to keep rural roads in the agricultural zone 1 in passable
condition for input supply and marketing (with paving in selected high-density areas), and to improve river
transportation to avoid pressures to build new roads in areas where forest cover should be maintained and
facilitate marketing of extractive products.

For river transport, the project was to prepare a River Transport Master Plan, to construct a simple port
and dockyard, and to repair passenger boats. The implementing agency, ENARO, never received sufficient
support from the state government, and eventually only preparation of the Master Plan and repair and
purchase of some boats were implemented . The subcomponent was terminated in 1997. ENARO was
liquidated, but the new state government has recently decided to reactivate passenger and freight river
transport on three rivers along about 450 km.

In the first phase of the project (1993-1997), it supported the preparation of the State Road Master Plan
and rehabilitation of 3,087 km of gravel feeder roads (target: 3,900 km) and the paving of 81 km of
secondary state roads (RO-470 and RO-479), as well as engineering and environmental studies. However,
rehabilitated gravel roads did not last more than a year because of heavy traffic, heavy rains and poor



                                                      - 30 -

maintenance. Thus, after the MTR it was decided that the project would concentrate on paving about 123
km of roads. However, this was only partially achieved: (i) 45 km of RO-473 were ompleted and 9 km
remain pending; (ii) only part of RO-370 has been completed, as the contract was suspended after
intervention of the Federal Accounting Court; and (iii) the program of work for paving of two sections of
RO-486 and RO-386 was not initiated. Thus, only a fraction of the paving works were fully concluded, and
some of the preliminary works already carried out may be lost to the rains. All required environmental
assessments for paving work were carried out, and technical and environmental supervision of the
execution was contracted to consulting firms.

This sub-component received the highest attention from the state government. Reasons for slow
implementation during the second phase of the project were lack of a smooth and constant flow of funds
due to the serious financial constraints faced by the Federal Government and inefficient contract
management by the Public Works Department causing implementation delays and cost increases. In general
terms, works have been carried out satisfactorily according to the best available engineering practice.
However, because of poor engineering designs and the lack of environmental mitigation measures during
construction, the quantities and the contract values often had to be adjusted with negative effects on budget
planning, monitoring and costs. The state government is currently implementing two programs of road
paving and rehabilitation, financed through CAF and BNDES. The financial condition of the State and the
lack of an adequate management and maintenance structure within the Public Works Department do not
favor the sustainability of the works financed or termination of those still incomplete. It should be possible
for the State to negotiate with CAF and BNDES to conclude the incomplete road sections under the
respective programs without too serious losses.

Institutional reform in the Public Works Department (management, planning, accountability, incentives,
governance) remains urgent. With the lack of criteria for prioritizing works or evaluating benefits, decisions
are frequently taken on the basis of political convenience and little attention is paid to a more rational
ranking of social demands.

Overall, the socio-economic infrastructure and services component has contributed towards the objective of
the project, but in a very limited way. Achievement is rated unsatisfactory.

(D) Project Administration and Technical Cooperation (US$ 10.2 million at appraisal, actual US$ 15.7
million ), including a Project Coordination Unit (PCU), supported by an independent technical cooperation
group responsible for advising the PCU with respect to project monitoring and evaluation, and for
recommending any needed changes in project strategy and content.


The SAR provided for the strengthening of the institutional capabilities of the State and the Federal Project
Coordination Units, with particular emphasis on improving their monitoring and evaluation capability,
through training, technical assistance and consultancies. Specifically, the projects would support: (a) the
installation costs of the State Project Coordination Units, including administrative offices, equipment and
operating costs; (b) the operating costs of the Federal National Coordination Unit; (c) training, technical
assistance, consultants studies; (d) in Mato Grosso, processing facilities and related expenditures for
implementation of a monitoring system based on satellite imagery, for the immediate detection of illegal
deforestation and invasion of protected areas, as an aid to project enforcement activities; and (e) in both
States, the yearly meeting of an Independent Evaluation Committee, with participation of NGO
representatives, to evaluate the annual progress of the project and recommend any needed corrective
actions.

In both Rondonia and Mato Grosso, for very similar reasons, the strengthening of the Project Coordination


                                                     - 31 -

Units (PCUs) did not occur as foreseen. Monitoring and evaluation was insufficient to provide sufficient
information to steer the project as intended. The independent evaluation committee only met once and was
eventually dropped.

Reasons for the weak performance of the Administration and to some extent the Technical Cooperation
subcomponents include the diffused project ownership and the lack of proper PCUs empowerment to
manage the project. This lack of management affected the development of an adequate monitoring and
evaluation system, as there was no demand for the information generated by it. As a result, no baseline
studies or outcome indicators were developed, and very few references are available to measure project
outputs and outcomes against.

Technical Cooperation, which was carried out by UNDP, played an important role in assisting the project
to overcome difficulties in some key areas, especially the zoning and environmental components, by
allowing the hiring of qualified personnel. However, better work conditions were offered to the UNDP
consultants (higher salaries, privileged status within the institutions, and better facilities) than to regular
staff, which created tensions between the two groups. . Moreover, this not only made it more difficult to
transfer knowledge and undertake in-house capacity-building to carry on the project after closure, but also
led to certain distortions. Examples include cases where personnel hired for purposes of providing technical
cooperation went well beyond a regular technical assistance program, where consultants carried out
activities for which regular staff should have been responsible. Also, project resources allocated through
technical cooperation were used to create incentives to retain qualified personnel. Nevertheless, the key
point about the capacity-building program through technical assistance is that no exit strategy was devised
by Rondonia's and Mato Grosso's governments to maintain these incentives at project conclusion and
therefore to retain qualified personnel.

The absence of project management is the single most important factor leading to the poor outcomes of the
Administration Component. This absence of management, a result of insufficiently empowered PCUs and
diffused and insufficient project "ownership" coupled with different agendas and sometimes conflicting
interests among the various agencies, resulted in the yearly implementation plans (POAs) being limited to
activities that reflected each participating institution's own goals, without regard to the necessary
complementarities between project activities. The lack of baseline studies and outcome indicators for the
project may also have contributed to the Project Coordination Units' losing sight of what the projects
should achieve. There were no clear targets to orient project implementing agencies in the preparation of
their POAs.

The final outcome of the Project Administration and Technical Cooperation Components is that the
structures created to manage PLANAFLORO were not strengthened. Instead of managing the projects, the
Project Administration Units spent most of their time dealing with procurement, contract management,
troubleshooting administrative issues and struggling for adequate transfer of federal government funds to
the projects. Little, if any, in-house expertise was created and it will remain difficult for both Rondonia to
continue to carry out project-related activities, such as the enforcement of zoning. It is noteworthy,
however, that, despite the modest achievement of outcomes, the Project Administration and Technical
Assistance components experienced a major budgetary overrun. PLANAFLORO had 140 % overrun for
these components in relation to the Appraisal projection and PRODEAGRO had a 187 % overrun.

Overall, the outcome of the Project Administration and Technical Assistance components was
unsatisfactory.

(E) Community Initiatives Support Program - PAIC (Appraisal: n/a, revision: $38.0 M, actual $17.3


                                                       - 32 -

    M)

A community-driven development alternative to the original institutional model of execution was introduced
into the Rondonia project experimentally as early as 1995 (before the MTR), under the name Community
Initiatives Program (PIC), with resources from various project components. In 1995 and 1996, 95 such
sub-projects were approved for a total of about $5 million. After the MTR decisions of 1996, the new
component PAIC was introduced in practice 1997 (even before the loan amendment), with an allocation of
US$ 20 million, and was to expected to reach 12-14,000 rural families. Out of 293 proposals received, 193
were approved and 145 sub-projects funded through 1999, with a total value of only $7.8 million, reaching
about 6,700 families (48-56% of target) dispersed over most municipalities of the state. An additional 53
(or 52?) sub-projects were approved but never funded due to.........?. There was no second round of calls
for projects after 1998, as in Mato Grosso. Of the 145 sub-projects, all but 18 were completed; 80%
benefited small farmers, 13% indigenous communities, and 7% extractivist and fishermen communities. It
is generally held that the indigenous and extractivist groups received the most benefit from PAIC.

PAIC pursued multiple specific objectives within the context of an unaltered principal objective after
project reformulation (see sections 3.2 and 3.4 above). Sub-projects usually included several types of
investments in four broad categories (productive, infrastructure, social and environmental) and a large
number of eligible "themes". About 43% of total investments were for productive purposes, 20% for
environmental purposes (mainly agro-forestry systems), 18% for infrastructure, 12% for social services
and the remainder (7%) for technical assistance and project preparation. There was no targeting of PAIC
resources to specific areas of the state, as would have been consistent with the original project strategy,
because it would have been inconsistent with the implicit objectives of the component as conceived. The
technical quality of sub-project selection decisions and subsequent monitoring and follow-up by the project
was weak.

Implementation was severely hampered by two factors: (i) interruptions in the flow of funds to the
subprojects, caused by irregular transfers from the federal to the state government and by the suspension of
disbursements after the misappropriation of project funds in 1998; and (ii) the severe lack of applicable
technical knowledge and qualified technical assistance and training to communities and associations. The
NGOs that had argued so fervently for this new component were unprepared and severely challenged in
their skills and knowledge when it came to motivat-ng and mobilizing communities and advising on feasible
technologies, farming systems, and other means to enhance incomes and quality of life. Staff of the same
extension agency EMATER that had been removed from project implementation were called upon (or
offered) to help. Moreover, when funds failed to arrive, NGO and community leaders were often blamed for
it and lost credibility.

Although no mandatory or pre-determined portion of sub-project budgets needed to be spent on the
environment (as in Mato Grosso), funds were spent on components that the communities did not really
want and support, on the insistence of PLANAFLORO staff (and the Bank). Agro-forestry systems, for
example, were often failures or were abandoned. Some associations were established simply because
funding was available, and some subproject proposals were essentially imposed on communities by
technical personnel specializing in writing proposals, and thus did not have the full ownership of the
community.

After the elimination of the agro-forestry support and infrastructure and services component, PAIC
represented the project's only assistance to small farmers, landless rural workers and traditional
populations after reformulation.




                                                     - 33 -

PAIC may have helped to improve the quality of life of rural communities through infrastructure
investments (water supply, electricity, local roads, etc.), although arrangements for operation and
maintenance were mostly unclear or lacking. Improvements to health and education services were also
supported. Insufficient data are available to determine to what extent productive investments have indeed
increased family incomes and employment, and how sustainable these are. Subprojects of this kind often
suffered from lack of support for marketing.

PAIC has apparently achieved little in terms of technological innovation, new farming systems and
alternative forms of land use, due in part to the lack of knowledge of the technical personnel (government
and private sector) and the NGOs that elaborated proposals with the communities, or due to the lack of
proven models. Ultimately, the technical value-added of PAIC was just as weak as that of the agro-forestry
support component it replaced. There is little evidence that the component has furthered environmental
conservation or protection, or reduced pressure on conservation units and forests in general. PAIC did not
make the link between (i) production or infrastructure investments and (ii) environmental considerations or
changes of behavior in land use. By leaving out the state agencies for research and extension, infrastructure
and social services, any opportunity for reform in these functions in the public sector was foregone.
Interestingly, the MTR was fully aware of the possible consequences of a demand-driven approach, and
envisaged the contracting of state agencies by communities to provide certain services or investments.
However, this vision was lost in the actual design of PAIC.

PAIC was not intended to replace the credit sub-component (although a credit cooperative is reported to
have started with PAIC funds). PAIC has, however, clearly contributed to the mobilization and social
organization of rural communities, thereby creating additional social capital, and the level of organization
may be maintained by many - but not all - communities after the end of project funding. PAIC also
increased the awareness of issues and opportunities related to natural resource and environmental
management among the rural population, as came out clearly in the stakeholders' meeting. At the least it
created a demand for knowledge about environmentally sustainable development practices on the part of
poor farmers. The limited information introduced in some subprojects about new species or species
combinations increased the notion of how natural resource management can improve productivity and
income. Whether betterment of the quality of life is followed by changes in dealing with natural resources
(as was predicted by some) cannot be answered yet, but warrants serious further study.

An additional result of PAIC is the strengthening of civil society organizations, not only through their
participation in decision-making bodies and role with the communities, but also as direct beneficiaries of
PAIC subprojects and politically. The demise of the Rondonia Forum of NGOs in 2001, after ten years of
activity, may, however, be a sign that the project had ceased to be a factor uniting civil society, either in its
opposition to PLANAFLORO or in capturing some of the benefits that it derived from the project.
Unfortunately, PAIC did little to integrate municipal governments in its initiatives, a characteristic of the
entire PLANAFLORO project.

Whether PAIC has contributed directly to an "improved strategy for natural resource management,
conservation and environmental protection and sustainable development" in Rondonia is doubtful based on
current evidence and impressions. Much deeper and more systematic studies are required to learn more
from this experience. The "fundamental" strategic issues of rain forest use and conservation, which were at
the heart of the project concept and objective, became secondary and were not addressed by PAIC. Were it
not for the parallel zoning and environmental conservation components, the project would have become a
more typical rural development and poverty reduction project ­ a noble objective, but not the original one.
PAIC may have helped indirectly, however, to strengthen the social and political basis on which an
improved strategy must continue to build, which was lacking at the beginning of the project. Overall, the


                                                     - 34 -

component is rated unsatisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Please refer to section 6

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The external shocks to the Brazilian economy, the intervention of international NGOs in concert with local
ones in the case of Rondonia (with repercussions on Mato Grosso), and the Bank's consequent concern
with its reputational risk were the major factors outside the control of the government that affected the
implementation and outcome of PLANAFLORO (and PRODEAGRO).

After successive external shocks since 1998 and devaluation of the Brazilian Real in 1999, GOB restricted
expenditures progressively for on-going projects in order to cope with the crises in line with IMF
requirements. This affected not only counterpart funds, but loan funds as well. This was aggravated by the
application of legal impediments to transfer funds to states with any outstanding debt to the Federal
Government. While some projects and sectors remained shielded from budget cuts, externally funded
projects with low disbursement capacity and limited relevance to the Federal Government were particularly
affected. Releases of funds to PLANAFLORO and PRODEAGRO were not only reduced but occurred
usually late in the year, causing delays in implementation and increasing project costs (and the cost of
supervision to the Bank as well).

Concern with its reputation after the POLONOROESTE experience led the Bank to adopt a defensive
posture in relation to NGO criticism of PLANAFLORO and its performance (see section 3.2). In order to
address NGO complaints, the Bank agreed to the new PAIC/PADIC component in each project and shifted
the focus from the projects' initial strategy, which had relied on development of agriculture and
agro-forestry and investments in social and economic infrastructure as part of the spatial logic of the
strategy. Local partisan and grassroots politics took advantage of PAIC/PADIC, scattering subprojects
through most of each state's municipalities rather targeting communities around protected areas.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The responsibility for project coordination at the federal level was with the Ministry of National Integration
(MIN, or its predecessors), which never assumed a leading role. MIN had no means to influence actions
and policies of other federal agencies with impact on project outcome, such as INCRA, the Ministry of
Environment or its subordinate, IBAMA. The political priority given by MIN to the two projects was
usually low. As a consequence, federal attention to the project's overall strategy and impact, and its resolve
and power to protect the projects against budget cuts was usually weak. The states were left without much
federal guidance or assistance when they needed to make decisions that had national significance. MIN
never requested that PLANAFLORO and PRODEAGRO be considered "strategic" and, as such, be
shielded, from the worst budget cuts. In short, there was no effective federal "champion" for these projects.




                                                     - 35 -

This was also felt in the zoning components of both projects. Although the Federal Government had created
a Federal Zoning Commission (CCZEE) in 1992, charged with planning, coordinating and following up all
zoning exercises in Brazil, CCZEE paid little attention to Rondonia and Mato Grosso. As a result, each
state followed different methodologies and their databases are cartographically and methodologically
incompatible. In another example of federal omission, Rondonia enacted the second approximation zoning
plan into state law which conflicted with Brazilian forest law.

Limited interest of the responsible federal Ministry is related to the fact that project activities were defined
by the Legal Agreements and gave little room for Ministry intervention in project design and
implementation, precluding any kind of political benefit. Second, allocating funds to PLANAFLORO and
PRODEAGRO had a high political opportunity cost, in terms of reduced funding to other regional projects
in Brazil, especially irrigation projects in the Northeast (also funded by the Bank), the main political
constituency of MIN.

With respect to sector policies, the National Congress' delay in approving the National System of
Conservation Units affected the project schedule for establishing such areas in the states. Remarkably,
Mato Grosso took the initiative and created its own system before the federal one, and became the first
Brazilian state to do so. More serious, though, was the resolve of the Federal Government, to push ahead
with land reform, with emphasis I on Amazonia, which led to a renewed drive for the establishment of
directed settlements by INCRA.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Factors subject to the control of the governments of Rondonia and Mato Grosso were: lack of political
support in the states; lack of effective project management; ineffectiveness of monitoring and evaluation;
lack of qualified staff for some components; and lack of administrative continuity.

Mato Grosso and Rondonia were societies used to expand the agricultural frontier with an extensive type of
development, not in line with the objectives of PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO. Uncertain political
will and weak public support, combined with fiscal constraints at the state level, continuously hampered
project implementation, not least through difficulties in allocating state counterpart funds and funds for
regular operation and maintenance.

As discussed above, the SARs provide only for "coordination" among state and federal agencies. In the
absence of strong, goal-oriented project management and the presence of typical centrifugal political
tendencies of state agencies, mere "coordination," when it occurred at all, was bound to lose sight of
ultimate project objectives and make it almost impossible to get executing agencies to plan and implement
activities coherently with the overall objectives. This allowed state agencies to pursue their particular
corporate or political interests with little regard for the common goal.

Lack of qualified staff also hindered PLANAFLORO's and PRODEAGRO's performance. This was
known at appraisal and was to be addressed by generous technical cooperation. Hiring staff through
technical cooperation, rather than recruiting them as civil servants, works as long as the project lasts, but it
is not a substitute for institution building, wherever functions and services are concerned that must continue
beyond the life of the project. In the case of zoning, an inexperienced firm was selected, aggravated by the
state governments' (and the Bank's) lack of knowledge of exactly how zoning could become the best
possible planning tool for the state, with the result that the final product was delivered not in the third but in
the seventh year in the case of Rondonia and the tenth year in that of Mato Grosso. An important factor
was also the choice in favor of a consulting firm, even with a mandate of training government staff, which



                                                        - 36 -

led the states to limit themselves to mere contract management, without themselves becoming directly
involved in technical, methodological and policy aspects of the work. As a result, the projects did not create
sufficient know-how to allow the states to carry on zoning functions on their own.

As mentioned before, the project monitoring systems did not include impact indicators. Despite deadlines
established in the Legal Agreements, and despite ample technical assistance, project implementation went
ahead without such systems, as project coordination units found output indicators satisfactory. Indicators
for the development objectives would have helped the coordinating units and the Bank to keep track of the
principal goals during implementation. Their absence made it difficult for the ICR team to provide evidence
for the rating of outcomes.

Lastly, administrative discontinuities after changes in state governments affected implementation. Incoming
administrations initially had little "ownership" of the projects in view of their own political agenda. This led
to slow-downs in project implementation at the beginning of each new administration, especially in
Rondonia where three administrations managed PLANAFLORO, but less so in Mato Grosso where only
two administrations oversaw PRODEAGRO, with the last one extending over eight years. In this regard,
the long implementation period were themselves a contributing factor to unsatisfactory implementation.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost amounted to about 90% of appraisal estimates for both operations , even with an actual
implementation period of ten rather than five years. The devaluation of the Brazilian Real led to substantial
savings. Insufficient, delayed and unreliable transfers of federal government funds to the states also
constrained the capacity of the project to spend, particularly after 1998. . Cuts and delays of federal funds
caused adjustments to some contracts, notably for zoning and road restoration and paving. The extended
project period increased the cost of project administration and UNDP technical assistance. The great
majority of expenditures occurred in the five years 1994 through 1998. The loan financed US$177 million,
or 68% of total expenditures, in the case of Mato Grosso, as against 72% foreseen at appraisal. In
Rondonia, the loan funded US$148 million, or 73% of expenditures, the same percentage foreseen at
appraisal.

Appraisal estimates, revised plans after reformulation, and actual expenditures are shown below:
Mato Grosso:


                       Component                            Appraisal      Revision       Actual     of which Loan
 Agro-ecological zoning and Land Regularization                     47.7          37.9         56.4               48.5
Management, Protection and Monitoring of Natural                      63.4         46.5        42.6        33.9
Resources
Community Initiative Support Program (PADIC)                     -                 38.0        17.3        16.7
Agro-Forestry Development                                             80.5         47.6        35.6        17.9
Water    Supply,    Rural   Electrification  and   Road               63.2         62.0        65.6        29.5
Improvement
Health and Education                                                  17.6         10.4         8.6          5.6

Training, Technical Assistance and Studies                             3.2         25.2        18.5        16.8
Project Administration and Technical Cooperation                      10.1         12.1        13.8          8.8
   Total Cost                                                     285.7          285.7        258.4             177.7

Rondonia:




                                                     - 37 -

   Component                                                  Appraisal      Revision      Actual         of which Loan
 Env. Conservation, Management and Protection                         64.8         60.9      57.5                  51.0
 Agro-Forestry Development                                               81.4       52.1        35.3       21.0
Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services                               71.5       53.3        70.3       42.2
Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation                        11.2       42.6        18.6       27.1
Support to Community Driven Initiatives Program                      -              20.0        7.8         7.8
   Total Cost                                                       228.9        228.9      203.8                 149.1



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability is taken as the durability of the achievements generated by the project (or expected to be
generated) in the face of risk and adversity. The achievements under the specific objectives (see Section 4)
were assessed with respect to the following factors representing potential risks: technical, financial,
economic, social support, environmental, government ownership, stakeholder ownership and institutional
support. For sustainability to be likely, all relevant factors have to be met. Details are shown in the table
below:


           Specific Objective             Overall      Techn. Financl. Econ. Social  Env.  Gov.  Stkhldr.   Inst.
                                        Sustainability                   .   Support      Ownshp Ownshp    Support
 1. provide a coherent incentives            U           -     N         -    M       -     M       N        N
 framework for sustainable
 development
2. conserve the rich biodiversity of the     U          H       N        -    H       H     M       N      N
State, while creating the basis for the
sustainable utilization of its natural
resources for the direct economic
benefit of the local population
3. protect and enforce the borders of        U          S       N        -     H      H     M       N      N
all conservation units, Amerindian
reserves, public forests and extractive
reserves, and control and prevent
illegal deforestation, wood transport
and forest fires
4. develop intensive and integrated         NR           -       -       -     -      -     -       -        -
farming systems in areas suitable
for permanent agriculture and
agro-forestry, and systems for
sustainable forest management and
extraction of non-wood forest
products in other areas which should
remain under natural forest cover
5. support priority investments in           U          M       N        -    H       M     H       H        N
socio-economic infrastructure and
services needed to implement the
State's agro-ecological zoning in
already occupied and deforested areas
6. consolidate the technical and             U           -      N        -    H       -     M      M         M
operational capacity of State



                                                        - 38 -

institutions, particularly those
responsible for agricultural and
forestry support services, and the
protection and .management of
State and Federal conservation units
and Amerindian reserves.
Environmental Policy Reform
Program
8. Rural quality of life and incomes             U          N        N        N     H  -   H        H    N
9. Rural social capital                          L           -       -        -     H  -   H        H      M
 10. Strengthening civil society                 U           -      N         -     H  -   N        H      -
 organizations



H = high; S= substantial; M = modest; N = negligible;
HL = highly likely; L = likely; U = unlikely; HU = highly unlikely; NR = not rated.

Development of sustainable agriculture and (agro)forestry was not rated because of the negligible outcome
of this component. Achievements are likely sustainable only under one objective - social capital created.
Overall sustainability of the project achievements is rated unlikely. The most important factors leading to
this assessment are (i) the likely lack of financial resources for maintenance of staff, institutions,
infrastructure and support to organizations and (ii) the lack of stakeholder ownership for environmental
management, control and protection.

The poor financial situation of the state, with its high public debt, and questionable local "ownership" of
key project objectives make it unlikely that adequate funds will be made available for certain functions
supported under the operation or for the maintenance of public infrastructure. A substantial part of the
operating cost of agencies that participated in the project was provided through UNDP, and this support
has ended without, in most cases, being taken up by the state with own funds. Some continued support may
be forthcoming through PPG7 in the area of environmental management and zoning. Community
infrastructure will likely suffer from lack of funds for maintenance and replacement, as few sub-projects
have made provisions for the future. Four of the specific objectives above could be considered as likely to
be sustainable if continued financial support were forthcoming. .

Institutional support is threatened by discontinuity in management, lack of incentives for staff performance,
or lack of institutional arrangements after project closure. Important functions that are being left
incomplete, fragile or inadequate at the end of the project are: zoning/land use planning, addressing rural
quality of life through continued management, improvement and monitoring of PAIC, organizational and
planning arrangements for systematic maintenance of infrastructure, particularly roads, management of
parks and reserves and enforcement of their integrity and that of indigenous lands, and capacity to
formulate policies and policy instruments to give incentives to sustainable development. Strengthening of
NGOs relies mostly on funds received under foreign-financed programs or projects or contracts under such
projects and may thus be adversely affected.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:



                                                            - 39 -

The idea, identification and preparation of PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO as follow-up projects to
POLONOROESTE were timely and responsive to the Brazilian Government's environmental agenda
launched by the 1988 Constitution. FAO supported the first stages of preparation, still during the
implementation of POLONOROESTE. At the appraisals in 1989 and 1991, the Bank's large and
multidisciplinary teams were notable, reflecting the priority attached by the Bank, although more team-like
interaction and use of synergies among mission members could have improved the effective integration of
the various project components. The Bank behaved like a partner who would listen and agree to incorporate
the various governments' main concerns into the project design. Nevertheless, staff skepticism within the
Bank about these two loans remained high throughout the lending process and afterwards due in part to the
incomplete incorporation of lessons learned from POLONOROESTE and the findings and
recommendations of parallel Bank ESW on Amazonian development and political economy of the frontier.
Given the somewhat doubtful ownership on the part of the Borrower and state governments mentioned in
Section 3.1, the Bank may have taken more of a lead than advisable. The Bank took care, however, to
discuss and define required policy actions by the state governments prior to project start and to have them
registered in side letters.

On the technical side, Mato Grosso staff who participated in the preparation process report that the Bank
provided little space for each state to adapt project design, which also contributed to more difficult
implementation from the outset. This was apparently not the case in Rondonia, where the project
preparation team had been part of the POLONOROESTE coordination and hence was more experienced.
Less Bank flexibility in Mato Grosso may have been due to the fact that that state's project was modeled
on the already agreed Rondonia design, and prepared and appraised later. Greater flexibility would have
been helpful as Mato Grosso has significantly different geographic and economic conditions than
Rondonia: less than half of the state is covered by rain forests, it has an older land tenure structure with
mostly large to very large holdings, and a highly developed, modern agriculture.

Quality at entry was discussed at length in Section 3 and rated unsatisfactory for both projects.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank changed task managers for the projects three times between 1992 and 1996. Given the
importance of these two operations,, however, it established an office to oversee their supervision in Cuiabá
(Mato Grosso) and appointed a member of the earlier FAO team who had participated in
POLONOROESTE and in the preparation of PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO to head the office and
closely monitor and support to the projects in the field. This turned out to be a good decision in many
respects, but perhaps reduced the distance of the Bank from the projects and provided too much "elbow
room" in terms of overseeing their implementation. . Given the extreme complexity and initial condition of
the projects, as the QAG assessment in FY00 states, "there was room for many things to go wrong which
apparently have not, in part because of the close supervision which was located in the project area". Project
teams in both states unanimously affirm that the Bank's local representative played a key role not only in
advising on routine implementation issues, including procurement and compliance with fiduciary issues, but
also as a "diplomatic firefighter" at sensitive moments and a mediator between NGOs and the two state
governments. He stayed on for nine years (1993-2001), but moved to the Brasilia office in 2000. It is
noteworthy that the Cuiabá office reviewed all procurement actions, not only those requiring prior Bank
review.

State project teams and independent evaluators do not t see much value added to project implementation by
the annual missions from headquarters from 1992 through 1996, other than their checking for compliance



                                                      - 40 -

with actions agreed during previous missions, and establishing new ones. In 1997, when the staff member
based in Cuiabá became also task manager, Headquarters support to missions was reduced. The Bank used
the same consultants on missions for certain aspects of the projects (environment, zoning, roads) over many
years. Their inputs and advice were (usually) highly valued by the state partners. The overall supervision
effort was certainly adequate, it exceeded normal levels by far.

Throughout the long project period, the Bank focused diligently, though too narrowly, on keeping the many
individual project activities on track and resolving conflictive situations with NGOs or in indigenous lands
and conservation areas. In the process , however, it may have lost sight of the big picture, of the
development objectives, perhaps because attention to detail becomes a priority when supervision is located
so close to the implementing agencies. The Bank's attention to the big picture increased considerably after
the Rondonia Forum of NGOs invoked the Inspection Panel in June 1995, and during the subsequent MTR
and reformulation process of 1996/97. At that time, the Bank may have become hostage to its own
commitment to the projects, its fear of a second reputational loss in the Amazon, the expectations of
national and international NGO groups, and the governments involved. The NGOs' call for the Inspection
Panel and the MTR were, in retrospect, useful interventions, alerting the Bank to the danger of the projects
drifting off course. The option of canceling project support, which was seriously considered by the Bank
prior to the MTR, was discarded when both local NGOs and state governments lobbied effectively for
continuing the projects. Conflict resolution was paramount to the Bank at that time, even at the cost of
giving up part of the initial logic of the project strategy (as discussed in Sections 3.2 and 3.4 above). Given
the unanimity with regard to the new community-based demand-driven component after negotiations
between NGOs and governments, the Bank did not insist on alternatives to achieve the objectives of the
dropped components in a different form.

The Bank's rapport with the NGOs changed over time. In the early 90s, neither the Bank nor the
governments had much experience with NGO participation. Giving NGOs a seat on supervisory project
committees was deemed appropriate and sufficient; otherwise, NGOs were apparently viewed more as a
complicating factor. As the NGOs' relationship with the state governments deteriorated further, the Bank
was sought to mediate the dialogue, and tried to do so. This role was criticized severely by the MTR (which
it is worth remembering was carried out by independent Brazilian consultants) which considered it as
inappropriate and not conducive to a healthy relationship between NGOs and government. It did not avoid,
in the case of Rondonia, the request for Inspection Panel review, led and supported by international NGOs.
The period of conflict through 1996 actually served to substantially strengthen local NGOs and helped
them to define their own positions towards project performance and design. During the second phase of the
projects (1998-2002) there were few problems between the Bank and the NGOs. When some NGOs later
turned into consultant firms contracted by the state governments for environmental education or park
co-management, they asked the Bank again to help mediate conflicts, this time related to their performance
and the state's contract management. At that time, the Bank refused to intervene between client and
contractors.

The Bank was chastised by several parties (including the MTR) for not being sufficiently firm in enforcing
covenants. For example, the Bank's remedies were not applied when the Rondonia legislature changed the
first approximation zoning law adversely, but were applied when project resources had been diverted. The
Bank was (belatedly) firm with regard to INCRA settlements in unsuitable areas in Rondonia, but not in
the case of Mato Grosso (where there was also much less attention on the part of local and, especially,
international NGOs). With respect to safeguard policies and fiduciary issues, the Bank took action as
required when such issues were identified. For example, it was forceful in assuring indigenous rights and
the removal of mining intruders from the Sararé area in Mato Grosso. It did suspend disbursements when
the diversion of loan funds in Rondonia was discovered until these funds were recovered, despite serious


                                                       - 41 -

interruptions in project implementation. Independent evaluations in both states found, however, that the
Bank was too patient when it came to slow government compliance with agreements reached in successive
mission Aide Memoires. Actions on such agreements were often delayed, and were then requested again in
following Aide Memoires.

Some other failures to enforce covenants deserve mention. The first concerns the establishment and
maintenance of a system of indicators for project development objectives. With the breadth of project
objectives, it was difficult to define measurable impact indicators. Despite UNDP technical assistance,
either an understanding on development indicators could not be reached (Mato Grosso insisted on output
indicators) or the system was rejected by some of the participating agencies (Rondonia). Bank staff
eventually gave up. This was not helpful to the Borrower, implementing agencies nor the Bank , who were,
thus, less able to keep their focus on project impacts and outcome. The Bank missed another opportunity to
better define the objectives and develop meaningful indicators when the project was restructured. Moreover,
the ups and downs of the annual deforestation rate in both states and survey of actual land use by remote
sensing rarely seemed to have received adequate attention from decision makers, except in Mato Grosso
when it established its surveillance and licensing system in 1999.

A failure not at all unique to these two projects in Brazil was the Bank's tacit acceptance of the
consequences of federal budget management. Brazil's compliance with IMF conditions in the wake of
global crises, particularly from 1999 onwards, led to the release of insufficient loan and counterpart funds,
often with long delays, by the Federal Government to the projects. The Bank supported, of course, strict
federal budget management, but the consequences for Bank-funded projects were serious, and the cuts
violated the Loan Agreements (Section 3.01). Repeated requests for extension of closing dates were another
consequence. While the Bank intervened with attempts to shield loan-funded projects from cuts and delays,
it never treated them as breach of the agreements nor invoked its remedies on these grounds. The issue
came up repeatedly at annual portfolio reviews with government, but was apparently treated as unavoidable
under the circumstances. This dilemma of conflicting Bank objectives with regard to Brazil's budget
management and smooth project implementation is now being addressed by the Bank with the Federal
Government.

Parallel to the two projects, the Bank helped build the Pilot Program to Conserve the Brazilian Rain Forests
(PPG7), a multi-donor program started in 1992, led by the federal government, and aimed essentially at the
same objectives as PRODEAGRO and PLANAFLORO. PPG7 has been actively supporting "integrated
environmental management" across agencies in Mato Grosso, but less successfully in Rondonia. However,
Bank staff rarely managed to coordinate effectively among PPG7 and the two projects.

Various evaluators, including the QAG, felt that Bank management may not have paid proper attention to
continuously troubled project implementation. Management was well aware of reputational risks that could
arise from a second failed attempt to support sustainable development in the Amazon and remained
engaged, but this engagement was only visible when critical decisions had to be made (on restructuring,
canceling, closing or extending the loans, for instance) or when action was required with high-level federal
officials applying pressure to allocate sufficient funds for the projects. In the case of Rondonia,
management involvement was intense when the Inspection Panel was invoked, leading up to, during and
immediately following the MTR and when working with the Federal Government to recover diverted
project funds from that state.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Unsatisfactory.



                                                     - 42 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

As the Borrower of two large loans associated with complex and highly visible projects to be executed by
states, the Federal Government was unusually attentive to the preparation of both projects. The Brazilian
Inter-ministerial Commission that selects projects for external funding (COFIEX) established several
conditions for approving both projects. Among these were: (a) a baseline study to be carried out from the
project outset, which would be re-assessed at MTR and upon project completion; (b) inclusion in the Legal
Agreements of the States' obligation to provide resources for the operational phase of the project; (c) the
States' obligation to involve all implementing agencies in the establishment of the monitoring indicators;
and (d) the creation of an inter-ministerial group to monitor implementation of both projects.

At the state level, the main implementing agencies and NGOs were formally involved in project appraisal.
However, as pointed out under "Quality at Entry" above, not bringing all implementation agencies
effectively on board in terms of dissemination and their full assimilation of the projects' overall objectives
adversely affected coordination among them during implementation. Involvement of civil society and its
organizations was almost negligible as, particularly in Mato Grosso, they were not prepared to assess
project objectives and activities in light of their needs. In Rondonia, the NGOs were able to agree on a
Protocol with the State, which later formed the basis of the first official public complaint against the
project -- the legal documents negotiated with the Bank did not incorporate important agreements
established in the Protocol, such as the need for immediate action in some project areas. Local society in
the two states as a whole, including the private sector, was certainly not in agreement with specific project
objectives, and the state governments did little to the disseminate them, perhaps for that very reason.

Once the governments of Rondonia and Mato Grosso had approved the respective laws that established the
first agro-ecological zoning and had started the dialogue with NGOs and signed off on agreed policy
actions, the Federal Government (just as the Bank) overestimated the evidence of local ownership, political
commitment, public support and readiness for implementation, and gave its final agreement to the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

At the federal level, priority given to both projects remained low throughout their implementation. As the
preparation process concluded, attention waned and the inter-ministerial group to monitor implementation
did not function for either project. The role of the Federal Government was essentially limited to receiving,
e, transferring and accounting for loan funds, and to transferring its own counterpart funds to the states.
The perceived low spending capacity of both projects discouraged the significant budget allocations
required for project implementation as initially proposed, particularly in a context of increasing fiscal
constraints. Neither loan nor federal counterpart funds were rarely transferred in a timely fashion or in the
required amounts, and this became a severe problem after 1998, contributing to multiple loan extension
requests. On occasion, funds were released but the federal ministry in charge reallocated them to more
visible projects.

Not surprisingly, the Federal Government did not act as a monolithic entity during the period of project
implementation. The inconsistent behavior of INCRA in locating settlements in "forbidden" zones has
already been mentioned. The relationship of the federal environment agency IBAMA with the state
environmental agencies (FEMA in Mato Grosso and SEDAM in Rondonia) was at best uncoordinated, at
worst conflictive. No specific role for IBAMA was foreseen in the project designs. Furthermore, some
transfers of federal land to the State of Rondonia, although formally agreed with the Bank, never took place
at all due to "national security" considerations.


                                                       - 43 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

At the state level, priority was variable and selective. With each change of administration, the projects were
adversely affected due to lack of (at least initial) political commitment and staffing changes in key project
positions. This was less serious in Mato Grosso, where the project spanned only two administrations.
During elections, candidates might argue against the state project, only to accept it when elected.
Insufficient state counterpart funds were also a serious constraint undermining the financing of relevant
operational costs. Moreover, state governments did not institute forceful project management at the highest
level, but left it (with the Bank's agreement) at project "coordination" without real authority to ensure that
the implementing agencies and project activities were effectively aligned. Nevertheless, each project
coordinating unit, with the support of UNDP technical assistance, was able to keep the project more or less
moving in the numerous implementing agencies -- despite huge difficulties, including overlapping and
conflicting activities. With low empowerment of the coordination unit, it would have been even more
important to carry out an intensive dissemination and team-building program among the implementing
agencies and interested groups in civil society, bringing everybody up to speed on the project strategy and
strengthening synergetic links among activities. Joint development and adoption of indicators for
monitoring outputs and outcomes would have guided implementation better towards the achievement of
project objectives.

The Rondonia state government tried to stick to its first zoning law as required by the Project Agreement,
at sometimes heavy political cost, but was not always successful due to limited political backing. Its
support for environmental actions (such as surveillance and enforcement) and for strengthening its
environmental agency, SEDAM, however, were not strong throughout most of the project period, although
it managed to create and demarcate a number of state conservation units (on federal land) and improve the
state's legal framework for environmental conservation. Based on work under the project, Rondonia has
managed to approve a new state zoning law in 2000. A one-time diversion of project funds in 1999 was
corrected, with a long delay, by the following state administration. Handling of consultant contracts for
management of conservation areas during the last year of project implementation, with the interference of
the States attorney, led to serious delays in these activities in view of the loan closing date.

In Mato Grosso, the government managed to create a strong environmental agency, new conservation areas
(mainly on private land, and covering much less area than foreseen) and a rural licensing system to enforce
forest law and control deforestation on larger properties. During the last year of project implementation, the
state government, in response to political pressures, proposed reductions to the area of a state park to the
legislature, but has subsequently tried veto or to delay such action. Not much attention appears to have
been paid to the existing zoning law, particularly with regard to state and federal land settlements. The
refined zoning in Mato Grosso was much delayed and may have less than the desired quality, due to poor
handling of the contract with the consulting firm preparing the zoning diagnostic studies and proposal,
despite insistent and repeated advice from the Bank's consultant.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


What went wrong?




                                                      - 44 -

The outcome of both projects is obviously not satisfactory to the Bank, and in many ways it is not
satisfactory to the client governments involved either. Deforestation did clearly not decline in either state,
and socio-economic development advanced less than expected. While this report has discussed quality at
entry, Bank/Borrower performance and external factors, it is useful to distill the few key factors that, in the
view of this evaluation, may have contributed to this outcome.

·         The objective of the projects was to change behavior of private and public agents in the use of the
natural resources of tropical rain forests. The three main instruments to bring this about, synergistically,
were zoning (a restriction on land use), the promotion of intensified land use and the provision of
infrastructure and services in areas already cleared, and the creation and protection of reserved areas.
However, the projects did not define the desired outcome in terms of actual or planned land use (zoning),
which made in principle any zoning plan acceptable, including Rondonia's sanctioning of the status quo (in
terms of forest clearing) with its new zoning law. While the agreed environmental project agenda was
implemented to varying degrees by both states, albeit after much Bank insistence, disappointment stems
from the perception that the traditional development paradigm, and thus the land use trends, prevalent in
these frontier states at project start have changed little under the project.
·         The project concept did not recognize the strong existing economic and political forces that were
(and still are) working in favor of continued expansion of forest clearing - the "political economy" of the
frontier states. Consequently, any project would have to work against the strong current of such forces.
Had meaningful consultations with the true stakeholders, whose behavior was expected to change, taken
place beforehand, the dimension of the "economic mainstream" of the states would have become apparent.
In as far as the underlying economic forces have not changed, deep changes in land use policies and
behavior of public and private agents should perhaps not be expected.
·         In the strive for decentralization after POLONOROESTE, state governments became the principal
partners and executors of the projects. Despite all the merits of decentralization, it may have been
premature to turn over the sensitive issue of land use entirely to the states. On the other hand, creation of a
"coherent incentives framework for sustainable development" was expected (almost) only from the states,
but should have required adjustments to federal policies and programs as well, which were not the focus of
project preparation.
·         At the risk of undue simplification, the Bank had a strong interest in the environmental objectives
of the projects, in the aftermath of POLONOROESTE, but saw development - in the right places - as part
of an overall strategy. The state governments (and their societies) were much more interested in
development, particularly infrastructure. They would not accept a purely "environmental" project, and the
Bank would not support a purely "developmental" one. There was a risky element of "quid pro quo" in
negotiating project scope, with the parties giving different weights given to objectives and components:
investments for socio-economic development would be funded, as long as an environmental agenda (zoning,
setting aside of reserves and their protection) was also implemented. With the official commitment to the
environmental objectives, the state governments set themselves up, in a certain way, against the local
"economic mainstream".
·         In spite of formally approved initial zoning laws, there was no sufficiently deep commitment on the
part of the states' society to be bound by the provisions of (first approximation) zoning. Refined (second
approximation) zoning came too late to change such commitment, and is not binding yet in either state.
Other, non-coercive instruments of "getting the zoning plan implemented" were not devised.
·         The sustainability of project results remains highly questionable, not only because appropriate
arrangements were absent, but even more importantly because the thrust of the projects was, and likely
still is, not in line with the local mainstream (although some seeds for changed values, attitudes and
behavior may have been laid by the projects). The institutional capacity to carry out the projects was
highly limited from the outset, and technical assistance, which by its nature is limited to the duration of the



                                                      - 45 -

projects, did not remedy that deficiency in a sustainable way, some notable advances in institutional
capacity notwithstanding.
·        The project reformulation after the mid-term review did not address the principal shortcomings of
the original projects. They accommodated one part of society ("organized civil society"), but not private
sector interests, on the basis of a vague strategy of community-driven development, largely without any
solid and proven natural resource management technologies that would have reverted the mainstream use
(clearing) of rain forests. This outcome of the mid-term review can be partially attributed to the Bank's risk
aversion in regard to possible criticisms from NGOs (local and international) and to its willingness of
possibly putting the project on back on track.

Prior lessons

At a time when the Bank is considering the expansion of its engagement in the Brazilian Amazon, and as
harmonizing environmental conservation there with economic and social development continues to be a
tough challenge, any possible lessons from the PLANAFLORO and PRODEAGRO projects will be of
utmost importance and urgency. The projects are good examples of what can happen when lessons
available from previous projects similar in nature and implemented in the same physical, political-economic
and institutional environment (e.g., POLONOROESTE) are not adequately incorporated in project design.
Many of the problems encountered by these two operations were predictable and could perhaps have been
avoided, had all lessons learned been taken into account during preparation. These lessons were set out in
both contemporaneous OED evaluations of POLONOROESTE and in Bank analytical work on the
challenges of sustainable development in the Brazilian Amazon. They included, inter alia, the following:

·        the importance of understanding and taking into account the political economy of the Amazonian
frontier, including the need to consider the interests, motivations and incentives of all local stakeholders;
·        the fundamental importance of securing true local stakeholder commitment to key project
objectives and components (ownership), especially environmental and social ones;
·        the risks ­ as well as advantages ­ associated with the decentralization of control over investment
projects in frontier regions from the federal to state (and local) governments ­ which was actually and
naively viewed as a "panacea" in the respective appraisal reports -- precisely because of the differencing
economic and political incentives vis-à-vis natural resource use and conservation at these different levels;
and
·        the importance of building ­ and "internalizing" ­ adequate, sustainable institutional capacity at
the state level to manage project interventions and associated follow-on activities.

Although such lessons are not new and were (or should have been) known during project preparation, some
of them are nevertheless discussed again below.

A.       Limit the complexity of projects and consider sequential implementation

There are limits to the number of components and sub-components than can be included under one project
and one management unit. These limits vary from case to case, but no project should attempt to implement
twenty or more sub-components in parallel. Where simultaneous implementation of all the necessary
activities for a given objective is obviously impossible, sequencing should be considered.

B.        For ownership, don't fail to involve all the stakeholders

Government cannot be the only stakeholder involved in the design and negotiation of natural resources



                                                      - 46 -

management projects, especially on the agricultural (and extractive) frontier, designed to interfere
profoundly with the activities and interests of the rural economy of and the associated political interests in a
state. Where project strategy goes against the grain of a large part of society, as was at least initially the
case, government ownership is necessary but far from not sufficient. Identification of other stakeholders,
analysis of their interests, thorough consultations and their involvement (or at least acquiescence) are
essential. This process takes time and should not be shortchanged. More specific recommendations based
on the lessons of these two projects in this regard are:

-   Stakeholders are not only the "beneficiaries" or "civil society"; they include also potential opponents,
    private sector interests and local governments and politicians;
-   Don't skimp on or delay stakeholder consultation, from the very beginning of project design; prepare
    for consultations in advance and have a methodology for the same;
-   Explain transparently to stakeholders what is planned, without hiding anything;
-   Be ready to adjust project design after consultations and re-assess the chances of project success;
-   If there is stiff opposition from significant stakeholders, consider postponing, implementation in stages,
    or, as a last resort, abandoning the project;
-   Without having carried out this `homework," the project may fail to correctly assess the incentives for
    stakeholder behavior and thus, jeopardize the perspective of satisfactory outcomes.

C.       If project strategy hinges on an important pre-condition, create that condition first

The refinement (second approximation) of state zoning plans was a crucial part of the strategy, to
overcome the technical weaknesses of the first approximation and to increase public ownership and
acceptance. Given the deficiencies of the first approximation and the fact that it was never truly discussed
with the stakeholders, it might have been better (a) to complete the second approximation zoning before
beginning the other components; (b) not to turn the first zoning, but only the refined second approximation
into law; (c) not to oblige the state governments to comply with a zoning law (with regard of its investment
programs) before the improved zoning plan had been accepted. Similarly, other important preconditions
for smooth implementation, such as minimum capacity of executing agencies for the job they would have
to do, should be met before project start. This would have called either for a separate small project or a
preparation facility just for zoning and capacity building, or else for the sequencing of project components
(through the use of disbursement conditions), or for an Adaptable Program Loan (which did not yet exist in
1992). In fact, this is precisely the type of situation where a programmatic approach would have been
useful.

D.       Don't lend to the Federal Government if the project will be executed by one State

Both loans were made to the Federal Government, which was to pass virtually all loan funds on to the
states for execution. This turned out to be inefficient. Funneling loan proceeds through the federal budget
created severe funding shortages and delays. Ministers of Finance or Planning do not identify as much with
the objectives of state projects as State Secretaries of Finance or Planning, and often have other priorities.
This lesson was already emerging with regard to the Northeast rural poverty projects at the time. The
Bank's practice today is indeed much more geared towards loans to states. Obligations of the Federal
Government related to its own policies, programs and agencies could still be included in guarantee
agreements.

E.       Make sure that relevant federal agencies and federal policies "play the same game"

Project success or failure depended to a large degree on the cooperation of powerful federal agencies, such


                                                       - 47 -

as INCRA for land reform, IBAMA for environmental management and protection, and FUNAI for
indigenous affairs, to mention just the most relevant. The loan agreements obliged the Borrower to cause
INCRA and FUNAI to enter into operating agreements with the states, but did not foresee any role for
IBAMA. INCRA turned out to be less a cooperating agency than a strong, virtually independent
stakeholder whose potential operating space was threatened by the projects through zoning and whose
personnel in Rondonia did not feel bound by any federal agreements. In fostering ownership, it is important
(i) to include all federal agencies, including their representations in the states, early in project preparation
and stakeholder consultations, and (ii) to assess carefully and objectively their history, guiding corporate
values and willingness to cooperate; and (iii) not to rely blindly on covenants and operating agreements.

F.       Don't confine "environment" to a component - it is a cross-cutting concern

Project design grouped all activities related to environmental management and protection in one discrete
component. The importance of environmental considerations to other components, such as agriculture,
infrastructure, health and education, as a cross-cutting concern was obscured in this way. While some
environmental functions clearly require their own components, such as the establishment and management
of parks, preoccupation with sustainability and conservation of natural assets should permeate all project
activities and agencies and should not be restricted to a component.

G.       Projects need to be managed, not "coordinated"

"Coordination" is a term frequently used in Brazil's public sector, even when management is really meant.
Coordination attempts to get cooperation from actors not under one's control. Management, on the other
hand, implies formal or de-facto power to make actors work to achieve a common goal, individually and
jointly; it builds effective teams and provides leadership. In the case of PLANAFLORO and
PRODEAGRO, the design provided merely for coordination, not for management. As a result, project units
lacked power (except to withhold funds) over the executing agencies with their divergent interests and were
incapable of building teams, providing leadership towards the larger objectives, or of effectively informing
participant agencies on objectives, strategy and roles. Power over state agencies is only at the Governor's
level (and even there are limitations). In both projects, the coordinating units were frequently "trumped" by
other state and federal agencies, that held more power at a particular moment.

H.       Complex projects benefit from "adaptive planning"

No project in Brazil had previously attempted to bring about such a significant change of land use in a
whole state. At the outset, it was probably not clear what the final outcome would be and what would
happen on the way. Objectives were vague, perhaps appropriately so. The projects aimed in part at
knowledge generation and capacity building, public and private. "Where capacity development is
concerned, in the public or private sphere, blueprint approaches seldom work. Most development
programs are voyages of technological and sociological discovery, in which the goal and the path to that
goal remain highly uncertain" (D. Horton, based on Albert Hirschman.

Project activities were implemented by the agencies in parallel fashion, with defined inputs and outputs, but
without their receiving feedback on impacts. Both projects had mid-term reviews which provided an
opportunity to take stock and propose revisions to strategy and content. Such one-time evaluations and
course corrections are essential, but may not be enough. In complex projects laden with uncertainty like
these, monitoring and feedback on the basis of well-defined indicators (which did not exist in this case)
should be continuous. Projects should have their own built-in learning capacity, where feedback on
performance, outputs and impacts is collected and analyzed, and planning, even the basic design, is


                                                       - 48 -

adjusted in the light of what has been learned ("adaptive management" ). This would, however, require
even more continuous Bank attention and involvement, well beyond routine supervision. With a more
flexible approach, project outputs and costs would likely differ from those at appraisal, and even objectives
and impacts may vary from original expectations. This should be acceptable as long as there is agreement
along the way. Where learning and adaptation are resisted, or where changes to principal objectives would
cause them to deviate too much from the original ones, the Bank can always consider an exit.

I.       Institutional strengthening is more than hiring and training staff, and not all institutional
deficiencies can be corrected with technical assistance

The traditional way of strengthening institutions has been to hire more staff, train staff, acquire equipment
and vehicles, and provide office space. Often, advisors are posted at the level of management of an
institution or in specific departments. Less often, organizational changes are made. Strengthening should
mean making an institution capable of what it is supposed to do for a project or program. Where
institutional objectives, culture and values are at odds with the chosen project objectives and strategy, even
the best staffing, training and equipping will not make an institution capable. This was probably the case
with the agricultural research and extension agencies in both projects. Project preparation and appraisal
should look not only at the stated mission and mandate of an institution, but also understand its underlying
goals, the dynamics of its organizational structure and internal processes, and the incentives for staff
behavior. Ideally, everyone in the institution should agree on goals and results and indicators beforehand. If
this turns out to be difficult or impossible, the institution should be dropped from the plans and alternative
arrangements should be considered, or else the entire component or project should be dropped.

It is an ever-present temptation to compensate for institutional shortcomings with hiring of "incremental"
staff through a technical assistance mechanism for the duration of a project. Where an institution or service
is not needed after the project (as in the case of engineering works), this is acceptable. Where a lasting
capacity must be created to ensure sustainability, technical assistance should be limited in time and work
with a "learning counterpart" who will eventually take over. If the client does not want to create
counterpart learning positions for permanent functions during implementation, the component (and if
necessary, the project) should be dropped, as there is obviously insufficient ownership. Moreover, if
government can obtain qualified personnel for certain positions or activities only through better-paying
channels (e.g., UNDP consultancies), it will need to be able to pay better itself after the project, or else
such positions or activities are unsustainable.

J.       Zoning is more than a technical exercise

Zoning was first adopted in Rondonia and Mato Grosso to satisfy Bank requirements, not to respond to a
felt need by a wide spectrum of the states' population. There should be knowledge and ownership on the
part of the affected population before zoning starts with regard to zoning concepts and objectives, and later
on ownership of the final result, as this is a prerequisite for change on the part of public and private agents.

Both projects chose to hire consultant firms to carry out zoning, which was perceived as an eminently
technical task. (Later, other Amazonian states preferred to rely on their own staff to learn and undertake the
zoning themselves, with specific contributions from consultants.) But stakeholders were not effectively
involved before zoning started. It is important to recognize the proper role of technical studies within a
zoning process, which is ultimately a political one. Zoning is not finished when multi-colored final maps
and detailed recommendations are on the table. In principle, zoning should be understood as a social and
political process of negotiation (conflict resolution) to arrive at a broadly acceptable plan of land use, based
on adequate information concerning capabilities and limitations of land and natural resources, economic


                                                       - 49 -

opportunities, impact on environmental services, current trends, etc. In some cases, arrangements will need
to be proposed together with zoning restrictions to compensate the losers, or to make payments for
environmental services. Technical and scientific studies should play an ancillary, problem-solving role and
address information and knowledge gaps to support decision making. The State of Acre has apparently
understood this and embedded the technical work in a social and political process.

Zoning should be flexible. Hard lines drawn on maps may harden the attitudes of stakeholders and draw
attention away from the analysis and reasoning behind the lines, which should be at the heart of
discussions. To be convincing, the reasoning must be explicit and follow a methodology based on
transparent and agreed principles, criteria and rules. The recommendations should be replicable by different
analysts given the same data and methodology, and not based on intuition.

Zoning was done at the state level. The states had no indication as to national/federal guidelines or
directives for land use in the Amazon, apart from the legal reserve requirement in private properties and the
location of national parks and indigenous lands. Indicative or normative macro-zoning of the entire Amazon
region has never been done. This was not perceived as a problem by Rondonia and Mato Grosso, but Brazil
may wish to have a national vision of land use in the Amazon and its other biomes take precedence over the
sum of the state zoning plans, as interests at the national, as at the global, level vis-à-vis those at the
individual state levels in terms of resource use may differ.

Zoning plans should be consistent with a state's financial capacity. No state in the Amazon, or elsewhere in
Brazil, can afford to spend US$20-30 million on zoning without external support. Costly, comprehensive
and data-intensive forms of zoning may not be required to come to decisions that are "good enough" for the
objectives at hand. The benefits of increasing the quality of a zoning decision with a certain study or survey
should be compared to its incremental cost.

Where zoning is adopted, a state should also create capacity for (a) carrying zoning work forward,
updating it and maintaining data bases, (b) meeting demands for data by the public, and (c) to do spatial
planning ("ordenamento territorial") and integrate it into the overall state sustainable development planning
function. This is now understood in both states, but not yet implemented. Professional capacity for
integrating the various physical and socio-economic themes in the process of landscape planning, is a
scarce resource but is needed to come to well-founded, defensible zoning recommendations. Eventually,
zoning must be taken down to the municipal level, and here solid capacity at the state level will be very
helpful. Some more specific recommendations in relation to zoning are:

-   Start with a process including all groups of stakeholders, not only with technical studies, and evaluate
    stakeholder interests carefully;
-   Make sure all legitimate stakeholders participate ­ even the normally absent ones;
-   Help people think together about natural resource potentials and constraints and associated
    implications for their use and sustainability, about environmental services, and possible problems;
-   Take higher-order (e.g., national, regional) zoning orientations into account;
-   Facilitate the adoption of commonly accepted visions, directives and principles, and encourage
    government and community to pass these to technical staff as essential input;
-   In negotiations, somebody must play the role of "advocate of nature"; probably the state environmental
    agency initially, until constituencies have grown that will defend those interests;
-   Don't study everything ­ just what is needed for "good-enough" zoning decisions, within a realistic
    budget;
-   Prepare society and stakeholders for meaningful discussions and negotiations by providing some
    minimal necessary prior knowledge;


                                                     - 50 -

-   Draw the focus of attention away from lines on maps and towards the rationale behind
    recommendations, and be flexible;
-   Have and apply a methodology for conflict resolution;
-   Once there is reasonable consensus, ensure that everybody knows what it means for their land;
-   Think about (economic) instruments to make zoning "stick";
-   A law may not be necessary. If there is a law, make it binding on the public sector (licenses,
    investments, public credit), and influence private sector behavior with incentives or disincentives. Build
    in flexibility.

K.       Community-driven development must be given time to be driven by the community

Many PAIC/PADIC sub-projects did not originate from felt needs of specific rural communities. The
notion of a homogeneous local community whose members all agree on goals and values is often a fiction.
Some associations were created only because funds could be obtained. Thorough community discussions of
options and design did not always take place. Often, proposals were prepared rapidly by technical staff
based on standard blueprints, and certain design elements were essentially imposed onto the communities
by project management (such as agro-forestry in Rondonia). Eventually, many communities took up more
than they could handle given their organizational and administrative capacity.

Once a grant facility like PAIC/PADIC is established, there are strong incentives to mobilize unsatisfied
social "demands" and to make them manifest. True community-driven development requires time for
communities to organize themselves, discuss their needs and produce initiatives that have full local
ownership; otherwise, "half-cooked" proposals without true community backing may come forward. This
implies the need to perhaps start out with smaller, less ambitious community projects ($100,000 is a huge
amount of money to handle for poor rural communities). Communities will need help and guidance on
conducing their process of organization and, knowledge of options available, but do not need proposals
imposed on them from above or the outside. In this context, the presumption that existing NGOs
necessarily serve local community interests best may not always be correct, even where NGOs claim to
represent or speak for such interests.

L.       Community-driven development needs knowledge and technical assistance

"Demand-oriented", community driven development became almost an objective in itself after project
reformulation. Without a doubt there is great value in community organization, social capital and better
quality of life. But as part of a larger project, PAIC/PADIC needed to keep the overall and specific
objectives in mind, which called for introducing new, sustainable ways to use natural resources, alternative
farming systems, agro-forestry, sustainable forest management, etc. Both projects were unsuccessful in this
regard, before and after reformulation. There is thus a potential ­ and, in many cases, an actual ­ trade-off
between decentralized, demand-driven development strategies and those that are and spatially and
operationally differentiated (i.e., based on actual natural resource potentials and constraints and on actual
capacity to implement specific actions or activities).

In both projects, a fundamental ingredient was missing: relevant knowledge. The design of PAIC/PADIC
assumed that such knowledge was available and useable; but that was largely not the case. Training was
given to community leaders, NGOs and potential "community consultants" in the rules and procedures, but
not in the substance, technologies, models and opportunities that could be used by the communities. NGO
enthusiasm and engagement for the poor and the environment did not substitute for lack of knowledge,
experience and professionalism.




                                                      - 51 -

It would have been useful to analyze and evaluate relevant knowledge available at the time, and package
and disseminate it to project staff, consultants and community leaders before approving "productive"
investments. (The problem was less severe with regard to infrastructure investments). Technical training
before sub-project preparation and qualified technical assistance during implementation would have helped
greatly.

M.       When reformulating a project, don't lose sight of the ultimate goals and don't throw out the
baby with the bathwater

After the Mid-Term Review, the Bank had three basic options: cancel the loans, accept the proposals on the
table, or propose an alternative. Happy about seeing a consensus emerge after great turbulence, the Bank
made no alternative proposal and agreed readily to the results of the MTR, but in the process downplayed
the ultimate sectoral and spatial goals of the project (see Section 3.2). PAIC/PADIC was unlikely do much
for research, extension, credit and more intensive land use, which were once deemed strategically
important. While it was correct that the original approach chosen to provide these services did not work, no
alternative ways were proposed to provide them and the entire component was dropped without
replacement. Any chance to do achieve institutional reform was also lost. The baby went out with the
bathwater.

N.        Field offices may not always see the forest for the trees

The Cuiabá field office has provided good services to the two clients in Mato Grosso and Rondonia, as was
amply acknowledged in the final evaluations and workshops. Yet an overloaded field office (with only one
HQ staff) tends to have difficulties of seeing the forest for the trees. Supervision from Washington was less
appreciated by clients, but could have been more strategic and involved. A combination of more removed,
but highly and continuously attentive supervision from Washington or Brasilia with client support by a
field office might help to maintain a strategic, arms-length view of a large project. Also, tough decisions are
often easier made from a distance (though some were indeed made up close). Higher than average budgets,
however, are required for more intensive field and headquarter-based supervision, but this may be fully
justified in light of the complexities and risks associated with certain projects such as those under review.

O.       Balancing federal fiscal constraints with investment needs should be a priority in the Bank's
and Borrowers Agenda
Where traditional investment loans are made to the federal government, containment of federal budget
expenditures invariably affects projects funded from a loan. Implementation periods stretched to 150-200%
of the original are inefficient and costly to the Borrower, states, beneficiaries and the Bank. The Bank and
the Borrower should make this issue a top priority on their agenda and continuously monitor project
implementation performance in the light of fiscal constraints. This would allow revisions, when necessary,
of priority investments and lead to necessary adjustments to the portfolio (e.g. amendments, partial
cancellations, etc) to balance both fiscal and investment needs.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                                      - 52 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 53 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
N/A                                                                             N/A




Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
               Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Second Approximation of the Agro-ecological 24,300,000 ha                       24,300,000 ha
Zoning
Demarcation of Extractive Reserves          3,500,000 ha                        1,300,000 ha
Demarcation of Amerindian Reserves          1,638 km                            1,638 km
Demarcation of Forest Reserves and          8,488 km
Conservation Units
Establishment of State Parks                5 state parks                       3 state parks
Establishment of Biological Reserves        2 biological reserves               2 biological reserves
Establishment of Ecological Stations        1 ecological station                3 ecological stations
Esblishment of Municipal Parks              1 municipal parks                   3 municipal parks
Establishment of State Forest Reserves      7 state forest reserves             11 state forest reserves
Establishment of Extractive Reserves        6 extractive reserves               21 extractive reserves
Farmers attended by Rural Extension         43,000 farmers                      59,233 farmers
Farmers attended by CEPLAC                  8,000 farmers                       7,522 farmers
Rural Credit                                33,000 farmers                      4,168 farmers
Improvement of Health Units                 7 health units                      142 health units
Improvement of Classrooms                   80 classrooms                       159 classrooms
Paving of State Roads                       123 km                              81 km
Rehabilitation of State Roads               3,900 km                            3,087 km
Support to Community Projects               13,000 families                     293

1End of project




                                                               - 54 -

   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

   Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                                Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                           Component                           US$ million       US$ million
   Environment Conservation, Management and Protection            57.30              57.50           100.35
   Agro-Forestry Development                                      71.80              35.30            49.16
   Socio-economic Infrastructure and Services                     61.80              70.30           113.75
   Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation              10.00              32.80               328
   Support to Community Driven Initiatives Program*                0.00               7.82                 0

   Total Baseline Cost                                           200.90             203.72
    Physical Contingencies                                         5.10               0.00
    Price Contingencies                                           22.90               0.00
                             Total Project Costs                 228.90             203.72
                      Total Financing Required                   228.90             203.72
   * The Community Initiative Support Program component was added after the Mid Term Review and used
   the remaining resources from the Agro-Forestry Development and Support Services and Socio-Economic
   Infrastructure and Services components which were extinct.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                           Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                 Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                             Bank      Govt.       CoF.      Bank       Govt.      CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Environmental               59.40      5.40                  51.03      6.49                85.9   120.2
Management
Agro-Forestry               49.80      31.60                 20.94     14.40                42.0    45.6
Socio-Economic              49.50      22.00                 42.14     28.14                85.1   127.9
Infrastructure
Project Administration       8.30      2.90                  27.20      5.61                327.7  193.4
Support to Community         0.00      0.00                  7.81       0.00                0.0     0.0
Driven Initiatives
Program*

   * Component introduced after the Mid Term Review




                                                    - 55 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No analysis was done. The SAR included some C/B analysis of agricultural models, but that component
was discontinued at mid-term, and no data are available for such analysis.




                                                  - 56 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/1988                   -    -
              10/1988                   -    -

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/1989                   -    -
              01/1990                   -    -

 Supervision

              09/28/1993                7    ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);                    2               2
                                             FIELD REP. (1); ECOLOGIST
                                             (1); LAND REGUL. SPEC. (1);
                                             LAND ZONING SPEC. (1);
                                             TASK MGR. (1); ENV.
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              08/12/1994                6    ANTRHOPOLOGIST (1);                    U               S
                                             FIELD REPRESENTATIVE (1);
                                             ECOLOGIST (2);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             AGRO-FORESTRY (1)
              04/11/1995                6    FIELD REPRESENTATIVE (1);              U               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1);
                                             ECOLOGIST (1);
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              06/20/1996                6    ANTHROPOLOGIST (1);                    U               S
                                             RESIDENT REP. (1); FIELD
                                             REPRESENTATIVE (1); SR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1); ENV.
                                             ECONOMMIST (1)
              06/15/1999                1    ECONOMIST (1)                          S               S
              06/16/2000                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                      U               U
                                             ENVIRONMENTALIST (1);
                                             PROJECT NAT. COORD. (1)
              11/10/2000                2    ECONOMIST, TEAM LEADER                 S               S
                                             (1); ENGINEER,
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/01/2001                6    Supporting the mission (1);            S               U
                                             Taskteam/Mission Leade (1);
                                             Ex-TTL, Agr Dev Spec. (1); Env.
                                             Specialist (1); Zoning Specialist
                                             (1); Road Engineer (1)
              04/26/2002                7    TTL (1); ECON./RURAL                   U               U



                                              - 57 -

                                            DEV.SPEC (1); TEAM
                                            SUPPORT (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC. (1);
                                            ROAD ENGINEER (1);
                                            FINANCIAL MGMT SPEC (1);
                                            ZONING SPECIALIST (1)
                                                                               U    U

 ICR
               02/23/2003             5     TTL(1); Ex-TTL/ Agric.             U    U
                                            Dev. Spec. (1); Community
                                            Dev. Spec (1); Econ/Rural
                                            Dev. Spec. (1);Operations
                                            Officer (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               88                        334.89
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    44                        143.52
  Supervision                            628                       1,935.55
  ICR                                      25                         90.00
  Total                                  785                       2,503.96




                                            - 58 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
         Community organization, social capital
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
Civil society organziation and strengthning




                                                    - 59 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 60 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents



Bartholo Jr. R.S. Bursztyn. Amazônia Sustentável ­ Uma estratégia de desenvolvimento para Rondônia
2020. M . Porto Velho 1999. (Projeto ÚMIDAS).

Browder, J. O. Conservation and Development Projects in the Brazilian Amazon: Lessons from the
Community Initiative Program in Rondonia, Environmental Management Vol. 29, No. 6, pp. 750­762.

Bursztyn, M. coord. (1996). "PLANAFLORO: Avaliação de Meio Termo". Brasilia.

Bursztyn, M. coord. (1996). "PRODEAGRO- Avaliação de Meio Termo". Brasilia.

Conceição, P. H. Z. (2003). "Contribuições para o ICR, Projeto 3444-BR ­ PLANAFLORO": 21 pages.
Brasilia.

Conceição, P. H. Z. (2003). "Contribuições para o ICR, Projeto 3492-BR ­ PRODEAGRO": 18 pages.
Brasilia.

Cowell, D. Implementation Completion Evaluation of Zoning Component of the Rondônia Natural
Resources Management Project - PLANAFLORO, and the Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management
Project - PRODEAGRO. Consultant's report. 34 pages.

Governo do Estado de Mato Grosso- SEPLAN (2002). "Modelo, Estrutura, Ações e Resultados do
PRODEAGRO". Cuiabá. (Independent Evaluation Report).

Governo do Estado de Mato Grosso- SEPLAN (2002). "Síntese dos Relatórios Parciais e Final".
Cuiabá. (Independent Evaluation Report).

Governo do Estado de Rondônia- SEPLAD (2003). "Relatório de Avaliação Final do PLANAFLORO".
(Independent Evaluation Report) Porto Velho.

Irving, M. Consultants report on the Environmental Components of the Rondonia Natural Resources
Management Projetc. March, 2003. 11 pages.

Mahar, D. Land-Use Zoning in Rondonia and Mato Grosso: What Are the Lessons Learned? Consultant's
report. 2002.

Margulis, S. The Logic Of Deforestation Of The Brazilian Amazon, The World Bank, June 2003.

PAIC/PLANAFLORO (1997). "PROGRAMA DE APOIO ÀS INICIATIVAS COMUNITÁRIAS
-PAIC: Prestação de Contas". Porto Velho.

PAIC/PLANAFLORO (1997). PROGRAMA DE APOIO ÀS INICIATIVAS COMUNITÁRIAS -PAIC:
Instruções Técnicas. Porto Velho.

PAIC/PLANAFLORO (1997). PROGRAMA DE APOIO ÀS INICIATIVAS COMUNITÁRIAS -PAIC:



                                                - 61 -

Roteiro e Instruções para Elaboração de Projetos. Porto Velho.

PNUD/PLANAFLORO, (2002). Avaliação Final do PLANAFLORO. Porto Velho. Explain

Rezende, M.L. Consultants report on the Çommunity Driven Development Components of the Rondonia
and Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Projetc. March, 2003. 11 pages.

Sant'Ana, M.-M. M. "PLANAFLORO: Orientações conceituais e técnicas para a implantação do Sistema
de Monitoria e Avaliação".

Schneider, Robert R. (August 1995), Government and Economy on the Amazon Frontier, World Bank,
Environment Paper Number 11

World Bank, Operations Evaluation Department (April 30, 1992), World Bank Approaches to the
Environment in Brazil: A Review of Selected Projects: Volume V: The POLONOROESTE Program
(Report No. 10039)

World Bank (May 21, 1992), Brazil: An Analysis of Environmental Problems in the Amazon (Report No.
9104-BR)

World Bank (1992). Staff Appraisal Report - Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project, Report.
No. 8073-BR.

World Bank (1992). Staff Appraisal Report - Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Project,
Report. No.10402-BR.

World Bank (1992). Loan Agreement- (Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project) - Loan
Number. 3444-BR.

World Bank (1992). Project Agreement- (Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project) ­ Loan
Number 3444-BR.

World Bank (1992). Project Agreement- (Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Project) ­ Loan
Number 3492-BR.

World Bank (1997). Office Memorandum- Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project

(PLANAFLORO -Loan 3444-BR): Amendment to the Loan Agreement.

World Bank (1997). "Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project (PLANAFLORO project), (Loan
3444-BR): Proposed Amendment to Loan Agreement."

 World Bank (1998). "Memo to MOF- ref: Mato Grosso Natural Resources Management Project ( Loan
                 Number 3492-BR) - Amendments to the Loan and Project Agreements."




                                                  - 62 -

Additional Annex 8. Summary of Stakeholder Workshop

Participants were representatives of NGOs and beneficiary organizations, former and current project
officials and private sector representatives.

   Stakeholder Understanding of Project Objectives: The project objective was not clear to most
   participants, including government officials and project staff. Many of them considered project
   component objectives as the project objectives per se.

   Stakeholders Assessment of Project Outcomes: The stakeholders' overall assessment of the project
   outcomes is positive. According to many, the project: 1) fostered inclusion, specially of the indigenous
   peoples, small farmers and rubber tappers and advanced government's dialogue with civil society; 2)
   achieved to set aside and demarcate conservation units, established the co-management of conservation
   units; 3) completed the zoning; and 4) demarcated indigenous lands. Several NGOs mentioned the
   capacity building resulting from several courses in Rondonia as one of the main outcomes of the project.
   However, several NGOs questioned the real PLANAFLORO/State Government's openness to
   participation.

   Community Initiatives Support Project ­PAIC: Several comments mentioned PAIC as an important
   project result. There was a consensus that the introduction of PAIC resulted from pressure by the NGOs
   and other stronger groups from the organized civil society, due to failure of the project in implementing
   the PIC. To small farmers, the project increased their understanding of the importance of natural
   resources management and of participation through community organization. Some participants,
   however, raised issues regarding the validity of PAIC vis-à-vis the project's objectives.

   Special NGO's comments: PLANAFLORO helped to socially and environmentally educate Rondonia's
   population and the state government. Following the POLONOROESTE -- which led to the formation of
   several unions but failed in its attempt to bring civil society closer to the state planning process --
   PLANAFLORO succeeded in establishing partnerships between different groups, including indigenous
   groups. Several NGOs claimed a need for larger involvement state investment planning and project
   preparation. The project also fostered a strong discussion about the values of the forest, turned
   conservation units into a theme present in local life, and brought these into the states' public schools.
   The project also allowed a significant increase in environmental awareness in RONDONIA's society.

   NGOs Assessment of the Government. The NGOs often criticized the government's lack of compliance
   with the zoning and the lack of integration of project objectives and activities -- again, especially the
   zoning --with public policies and investments; the lack of understanding and support by several
   municipal governments regarding project activities; and the continuing lack of respect for project
   objectives and activities by other governmental agencies (especially INCRA).

   NGO assessment of Technical Assistance. The NGOs were generally critical of the TA provided
   through the project; the failure of the project and the government to integrate project objectives and
   concepts into other state government bodies, especially all participating implementing agencies.

   Stakeholder assessment of project sustainability. The sustainability of the project's outcomes was a
   common concern. The weakness of the outcomes and therefore their sustainability was often questioned
   due to their dependency on government commitment. Similar preoccupation was shown by several
   participants that mentioned issues and disruptions that usually resulted from changes of project



                                                     - 63 -

managers, after change of government during the implementation.

Participants in all groups -- from government officials to small farmers -- considered the continuation of
the flow of funds necessary to maintain and strengthen the project's positive results. A few participants
commented on the need for beneficiaries themselves to build the sustainability of the products that
resulted from their participation in the project, especially through PAIC.

Stakeholder Assessment of the World Bank's performance. Several comments pointed out the Bank's
role in the project as positive because the Bank advanced the environmental discussion; praised the
opening of the project implementation to participation by the civil society, which thereby facilitated
capacity creation in civil society, and provided a `legal' base for demands by special groups such as
indigenous and extractivist populations.

Some comments on the Bank's contribution were negative in that it: allowed the participation of the
civil society to be a function of government interests; maintained a neutral position in some
project-related issues and discussions; and failed to use its role in supervision to enforce what had been
agreed.

Several participants mentioned that the Bank should take a more proactive role in providing
guidance (to project, staff, civil society) based on its wide experience and knowledge; and play
a stronger role as a project supervisor, especially by insisting that agreed project activities and
other agreed actions are carried out timely.




                                                   - 64 -

- 65 -

