Page  1
December 11, 1997
Mr. Pedro Sampaio Malan 
Minister of Finance 
Ministério da Fazenda 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco P 
70048-900 Brasília - D.F. 
BRAZIL
Ms. Janilene Vasconcelos de Melo 
Secretary of Planning and Coordination 
State of Rondônia 
Rua Padre Chiquinho, 580 - Pedrinhas 
Esplanada das Secretarias 
78900 Porto Velho - Rondônia 
BRAZIL
Re.: 
Rondônia Natural Resources Management Project
(Loan Number 3444-BR) 
Amendment to Loan and Project Agreements
Dear Sir and Madam:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil (the 
Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank), 
and to the Project Agreement between the Bank and the State of Rondônia (Rondônia), 
both dated September 19, 1992, as amended, for the above referenced Project.  We are 
pleased to inform you of our agreement to amend the Loan Agreement and the Project 
Agreement as follows:
General
1.
Wherever it appears in the Loan and Project Agreements, the term “SDR-PR” is 
replaced with the term “MPO-SEPRE”.
Amendments to the Loan Agreement
2.
Section 1.02 is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any civil association (associação civil) duly 
established in Rondônia’s territory in accordance with the Borrower’s laws, which has 
been selected to carry out a Community Subproject (as hereinafter defined) in 
accordance with the selection criteria prescribed in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(b)
“BERON” means Banco do Estado de Rondônia, the Bank of Rondônia;
(c)
“Central Bank” means the Central Bank of Brazil, Banco Central do Brasil, 
established by Lei No. 4,595 dated December 31, 1964;
(d)
“Community Subproject” means any investment referred to in Part C of the 
Project to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) and which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(e)
“Community Subproject Agreement” means each of the agreements to be 
entered into between Rondônia and a Beneficiary, as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of 
the Project Agreement;
(f)
“Deliberative Council” means the Council established pursuant to 
Rondônia’s Decree No. 5,407 of December 9, 1991, for the purposes of, inter alia, 
defining the applicable policies and guidelines for the Project, and approving the 
Page  2
relevant POA (as hereinafter defined) and Project reports;  
(g)
“Decree No. 3,782” means Rondônia's Decree No. 3,782 passed on June 14, 
1988, under which the agro-ecological zoning of Rondônia was established for 
environmental, ecological and conservation purposes, to ensure sustainable 
development;
(h)
“DER-RO” means Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem de Rondônia, the 
Highway Department of Rondônia;
(i)
“DPU” means Departamento do Patrimônio da União, the Property Department 
of the Union, of the Borrower;
(j)
“ENARO” means Empresa de Navegação de Rondônia, the Water Transport 
Company of Rondônia;
(k)
“Executing Entity” means each entity which, for the purposes of executing 
a part or parts of the Project, enters into an Operating Agreement (as hereinafter 
defined) pursuant to Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement; and "Executing Entities" 
means collectively all such executing entities;
(l)
"FPCU” means “Federal Project Coordinating Unit”, the unit established 
within the Department of Integrated Programs in MPO-SEPRE (as hereinafter defined) to 
coordinate, supervise and evaluate, at the federal level, all activities to be 
implemented under the Project, and to be maintained throughout the execution of the 
Project;
(m)
“FSRMM” means the Borrower's Freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the 
Merchant Marine, Adicional ao Frete para Renovação da Marinha Mercante, established by 
Decree Law No. 1.142 of December 30, 1970 as amended to December 31, 1987, or any 
other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank may substitute 
for it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988;
(n)
“FUNAI” means Fundação Nacional do Índio, the Borrower's National Indian 
Foundation;
(o)
"FUNDAGRO" means Fundo Agrário, the Rondônia's Agricultural Credit Fund, 
established by Rondônia's Decree No. 3870 of August 16, 1988 to finance investments 
and essential inputs under Part F.3 of the Project;
(p)
"FUNDAGRO Operating Manual" means an operating manual, satisfactory to 
the Borrower and the Bank, for detailing the principles and regulations of FUNDAGRO, 
the terms and conditions for the provision of credit, and the purposes for which, and 
persons to whom, such credit will be provided;
(q)
“Grant” means a grant to be made or proposed to be made by Rondônia, 
through SEPLAN-RO, to a Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Loan for the purposes 
of financing not more than 90% of the cost of a Community Subproject, in accordance 
with the PAIC Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(r)
“HSP” means a plan, dated October 23, 1996 and revised in December 1997, 
for the provision of health services to the indigenous population of Rondônia;
(s)
“IBAMA” means Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos 
Naturais Renováveis, the Borrower's Institute for Environment and Renewable Natural 
Resources;
(t)
“IEC” means the inter-institutional enforcement committee established 
pursuant to Rondônia’s Decree No. 7,634 of November 7, 1996, for the purposes of, 
inter alia, assisting Rondônia in the carrying out of environmental enforcement 
activities;
(u)
“INCRA” means Instituto Nacional de Colonização e Reforma Agrária, the 
National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform of the Borrower;
(v)
“Indigenous Areas” means “Áreas Indígenas”, as defined in Paragraph 1, 
Article 231 of the Borrower’s Constitution of October 5, 1988;
Page  3
(w)
“Indigenous Populations” means tribal populations referred to as "índios" 
in Articles 231-232 of the Borrower’s Constitution of October 5, 1988, as the same is 
interpreted in accordance with the Borrower’s Law No. 6,001, of December 19, 1973;
(x)
“ITERON” means Instituto de Terras de Rondônia, Rondônia's Land 
Institute;
(y)
“MPO-SEPRE” means “Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento - Secretaria 
Especial de Políticas Regionais”, the Borrower’s Special Secretariat for Regional 
Policies within its Ministry of Planning and Budget, responsible for the coordination 
of the Project at the Borrower’s level;
(z)
“MPO-SEPRE Operating Agreement” means the agreement, acceptable to the 
Bank, to be entered into by the Borrower, through MPO-SEPRE with Rondônia pursuant to 
Section 2.10 (c) of the Project Agreement and under which the funds required for the 
Project will be provided to Rondônia in accordance with Section 3.01 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(aa)
"Normative Commission" means Comissão Normativa de Políticas Públicas, 
the Normative Commission for Public Policies established pursuant to Rondônia’s Decree 
No.7,752, of March 12, 1997, for the purposes of advising on Project related issues, 
such as norms and operating procedures related to land, environmental, agricultural 
and transport policies; 
(bb)
“Operating Agreement” means an agreement, acceptable to the Bank, to be 
entered into between Rondônia, through SEPLAN-RO (as hereinafter defined), and each 
Executing Entity for the purposes of executing a part or parts of the Project pursuant 
to Section 2.10 (b) of the Project Agreement; and the term "Operating Agreements" 
means all such operating agreements and the MPO-SEPRE Operating Agreement;
(cc)
“PAIC Operational Manual” means a manual approved pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Decree No. 7,914 of July 14, 1997, containing, inter alia, the criteria and 
procedures for the selection, and the procedures for the carrying out, of the 
Community Subprojects and the standard form of a Community Subproject Agreement; as 
such Operational Manual may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank 
and Rondônia;
(dd)
“PAIC Commission” means Comissão Deliberativa do Programa de Apoio às 
Iniciativas Comunitárias - PAIC, the Deliberative Commission established pursuant to 
Rondônia’s Decree No.7,746, of March 10, 1997, for the purposes of assisting Rondônia 
in the carrying out of Community Subprojects;
(ee)
“PM” means Polícia Militar, Rondônia's Military Police;
(ff)
“POA” means an annual operating plan for the Project prepared in each 
year in respect of the forthcoming year and which shall include the physical targets 
and budgetary requirements for each Executing Entity, for each part of the Project, 
and for the Project as a whole;
(gg)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Rondônia of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, with notice to the 
Borrower, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the 
Project Agreement;
(hh)
“Protected Area” means each of the federal, state and municipal protected 
areas created, or expected to be created, of direct or indirect use, including 
Indigenous Areas, to benefit from the Project, listed in the Attachment to Schedule 2 
to this Agreement;
(ii)
“Reform Program” means the reform program setting forth the actions to be 
taken in accordance with the Matrix of Main Environmental Policy Issues, Measures and 
Actions provided by the Borrower and Rondônia to the Bank and which includes policies 
concerning agro-ecological zoning, land regularization, elimina\1ftion of adverse fiscal 
policies, Indigenous Population’s conservation policies and migration reduction;
(jj)
“Regularization” means the demarcation, confirmation by executive decree, 
Page  4
and registration in federal and local registries of Indigenous Areas or areas of 
conservation;
(kk)
“SEDAM-RO” means Secretaria de Estado de Desenvolvimento Ambiental, 
Rondônia's Secretariat for the Environmental Development;
(ll)
“SEPLAN-RO” means Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento e Coordenação 
Geral, Rondônia's Secretariat for Planning and Coordination;
(mm)
“SPCU” means "State Project Coordinating Unit", the coordinating unit to 
be established and maintained throughout the execution of the Project pur\1fsuant to 
Section 2.05 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(nn)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(oo)
“State Zoning Commission” means the Commission established pursuant to 
Rondônia’s Decree No. 7,409 of March 28, 1996, for the purposes of assisting Rondônia 
with respect to any matter related to the state zoning, as provided in such Decree;
(pp)
“Technical Zoning Commission” means Comissão Técnica de Zoneamento, the 
Technical Zoning Commission established pursuant to Rondônia’s Zoning Commission 
resolution No. 001/CEZ/97, of January 23, 1997, for the purposes of, inter alia, 
reviewing the results of the socio-economic ecological zoning of Rondônia, and 
advising the Government of Rondônia on the preparation and implementation of the 
zoning activities; and
(qq)
“Zone” means an agro-ecological zone established by Rondônia under Decree 
No. 3,782, as numbered, specified and referred to therein, and "zones" means two or 
more of such zones.”
3.
Section 2.03 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be July 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.”
4.
Section 3.06 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall:
(a)
complete, or cause FUNAI to complete, the registration with DPU of the 
Pacaas Novos, Roosevelt, Tubarão Latundê and Uru-eu-wau-wau Indigenous Areas, and 
take, or cause to be taken, all necessary steps to register such areas with the 
appropriate local land registries in Rondônia; and
(b)
complete, or cause FUNAI to complete, by no later than April 30, 1998, 
the registration with DPU of the Karipuna indigenous area, and, thereafter take, or 
cause to be taken, all necessary steps to register such area with the appropriate 
local land registries in Rondônia;
(c)
complete, by no later than May 31, 1998, the demarcation of the Massaco 
indigenous area and thereafter take, or cause to be taken, all necessary steps to 
register such area with the appropriate land registries (DPU and local);
(d)
carry out, during Project implementation, the HSP with the assistance of 
Rondônia, and in accordance with the provisions and timetable set forth therein; 
(e)
maintain during Project implementation the current boundaries and 
substantially conserve the biological integrity of the following Protected Areas: (i) 
Jamari national forest; and (ii) Pacaas Novos national park; and
(f)
approve, or cause to be approved, as the case may be, by no later than 
April 30, 1998, the land ownership transfer to Rondônia of each of the Protected Areas 
listed in paragraph B of the Attachment to Schedule 2 to this Agreement.”
5.
Schedules 1 and 2 to the Loan Agreement are amended in their entirety as set 
Page  5
forth in Annexes 1 and 2 (and its corresponding Attachment), respectively, to this 
letter of amendment.
Amendments to the Project Agreement
6.
In Section 2.01 (a) the term “EMBRAPA” is deleted, and the term “CEPLAC” is 
replaced with “Federal Police”.
7.
In Section 2.01, paragraph (c) is amended and a new paragraph (d) is introduced 
to read as follows:
“(c)
by no later than January 31, 1998, Rondônia shall revise the regulatory 
framework related to the Deliberative Council and the Normative Commission in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, and thereafter, maintain, during Project implementation, 
such Council and Commission with structure, functions and composition satisfactory to 
the Bank.
(d)
Rondônia shall maintain, during Project implementation, the PAIC 
Commission, the State Zoning Commission and the Technical Zoning Commission, 
respectively, with structure, functions and composition satisfactory to the Bank.”
8.
Section 2.05 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.05. Rondônia shall: 
(a)
maintain, within SEPLAN-RO, with staffing, structure and functions 
satisfactory to the Bank a Project coordinating unit (the SPCU), such unit to be 
managed by a Project Coordinator and to include, inter alia: (i) a procurement 
division with personnel knowledgeable of the procurement norms and procedures 
applicable to the Project; (ii) a financial division with adequate personnel, 
including a certified auditor; (iii) a technical division to support the activities of 
the Technical Zoning Commission; (iv) a division to coordinate the carrying out of 
Community Subprojects; and (v) a technical division to coordinate and support Project 
environmental and transport activities; and
(b)
without limitation to its other reporting obligations under the General 
Conditions and this Agreement, Rondônia shall furnish to the Bank, through MPO-SEPRE, 
no later than March and September of each year during Project implementation, progress 
reports prepared by SEPLAN-RO, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may 
reasonably request, informing, in each case, the progress in the carrying out of the 
Project during each report’s respective period.”
9.
Section 2.06 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.06. Rondônia shall:
(a)
by no later than March 31, 1998, contract independent consultants to, 
under terms of reference to be prepared by the Normative Commission and approved by 
the Bank, and based on the reports referred to in Section 2.05 (b) of this Agreement, 
review: (i) the implementation of the environmental policy and regulatory reforms 
undertaken in connection with the Project; (ii) the compatibility of the annual 
federal and state investment programs in Rondônia with the agro-ecological zoning; and 
(iii) the performance achieved in respect of each Part of the Project;
(b)
furnish, for review and comments of the Normative Commission, the 
consultants’ report referred to in paragraph (a) above; and 
(c)
by no later than April 30, 1998, furnish to the Bank reports, for its 
review and comments, which shall contain the findings of the consultants’ reports 
referred to in paragraph (a) above and any comment issued by the Normative Commission 
pursuant to paragraph (b) above.”
10.
Section 2.07 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.07. For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, Rondônia 
shall:
Page  6
(a)
contract, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, by no later 
than January 31, 1998, the implementation of the integrated environmental education 
program referred to in Part A.2 (d) of the Project, such program to be of content and 
form satisfactory to the Bank; 
(b)
by no later than October 31, 1997, furnish to the Bank a media program, 
satisfactory to the Bank, to disseminate information concerning the Project, with 
emphasis on its environmental components including the agro-ecological zoning, and 
thereafter implement such program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
(c) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, during Project implementation, the 
current boundaries and substantially conserve the biological integrity of the 
Protected Areas listed in paragraphs B and C of the Attachment to Schedule 2 to the 
Loan Agreement;
(d)
assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the HSP in accordance with the 
provisions and timetable set forth therein;
(e)
by no later than December 31, 1997, furnish to the Bank the health 
service program and the educational program, satisfactory to the Bank, referred to in 
Part A.3 (d) of the Project;
(f)
by no later than December 31, 1997, furnish to the Bank 22 utilization 
plans, for the extractive reserves referred to in Part A.3 (e) of the Project;
(g)
by no later than December 31, 1997, furnish to the Bank, for approval, a 
draft management model for the state forest of Rio Vermelho, and thereafter implement 
such model in a manner acceptable to the Bank.
(h)
assist the Borrower in the registration of the Karipuna indigenous area 
and in the demarcation of the Massaco indigenous area;
(i)
by no later than April 30, 1998, complete the demarcation of the 
Protected Areas referred to in Part A.4 (b) of the Project;
(j)
assist the Borrower, and take all necessary measures with respect to the 
land ownership transfer to Rondônia of each of the Protected Areas listed in paragraph 
B of the Attachment to Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, including, but not limited 
to, the preparation of the technical projects and the field survey of such areas by no 
later than January 31, 1998, in order to  enable the transfer of such areas to be 
completed by no later than April 30, 1998;
(k)
complete, by no later than April 30, 1998, the land regularization 
activities for the areas referred to in Parts A.4 (d) and A.4 (e) of the Project;
(l)
maintain, during Project implementation the IEC with functions and 
composition satisfactory to the Bank; and
(m)
furnish to MPO-SEPRE and the Bank, at least 30 days in advance, a 
biannual program of work for enforcement activities starting with the program for the 
period August 1997-January 1998.
11.
Section 2.08 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.08. For the purposes of carrying out Part C of the Project, Rondônia 
shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with each of the 
Beneficiaries (the Community Subproject Agreement) to: (i) govern such Beneficiary’s 
participation in the carrying out of a Community Subproject; and (ii) provide a Grant 
to finance part of the costs of such Community Subproject.”
12.
Section 2.09 is amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.09. For the purposes of carrying out Part D of the Project, Rondônia 
shall, by no later than September 30, 1997,  furnish to MPO-SEPRE and the Bank, for 
comments, a detailed work plan which shall indicate the targets to be achieved, and a 
detailed description of activities and expenditures related to the carrying out of 
such Part of the Project, and, thereafter, implement such plan after taking into 
Page  7
account the comments provided by MPO-SEPRE and the Bank.”
13.
Section 2.10 and 2.11 are deleted, and, consequently, Sections 2.12, 2.13 and 
2.14 are renumbered as Sections 2.10, 2.11 and 2.12 respectively. 
14.
Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement is amended to read 
as follows:
“2.
Shopping: (a) Items or groups of items of office furniture and equipment 
and other similar goods, and works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$100,000 each per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,500,000, may be 
procured on the basis of evaluation of price quotations from a list of at least three 
suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, eligible under the Guidelines, in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank; and (b) goods and works to be 
procured under Community Subprojects and estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$100,000 each per contract, may be procured on the basis of evaluation of price 
quotations from a list of at least three suppliers or contractors, as the case may be, 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.”
15.
In Part C.3 of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, the parenthesis 
with the sentence “excluding works under Part C3 of the Project” is deleted.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing the three 
originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us.  This 
amendment shall enter into effect on the date of this letter, provided that the Bank 
receives one original of it signed by the representatives of the Borrower and 
Rondônia.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
 AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/ Gobind T. Nankani 
    Director  
    Country Management Unit - Brazil 
    Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By: /s/ Pedro Sampaio Malan
 Authorized Representative
STATE OF RONDÔNIA
By: /s/ Janilene Vasconcelos de Melo
 Authorized Representative
ANNEX 1
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  8
Amount of the Loan
   Allocated
   % of
 (Expressed in  
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) (a) Goods, 
works, 
19,000,000
100%
consulting services 
and Incremental 
Operating Cost under 
Parts A.2 and A.3 of 
the Project (excluding 
salaries and per-diem)
(b) 
Works, consulting 
 7,100,000
100%
services and 
Incremental Operating 
Costs under Parts A.4 
and A.5 of the Project 
(excluding salaries)
(2)
Goods, consulting services 
       29,500,000
100%
and Incremental Operating 
Costs under Part A.1 of the
Project (excluding salaries 
and per-diem)
(3)
Consulting services and 
13,400,000
100%
training under Part B of the
Project
(4)
For agro-forestry research: 
 2,660,000
65% up to a
goods (not including computer 
maximum
equipment), works, and 
aggregate
incremental operating costs 
amount of $4.5
of the Executing Entities 
million equi-
under Part F.1 of the Project
valent of dis-
bursements 40%
thereafter up to
maximum aggre-
gate amount of
5.5 million
equivalent of
disbursements
and 15% there-
after
(5)
For rural extension: goods
11,230,000
65% up to a
(not including computer
maximum aggre-
equipment), works and
gate amount of
incremental operating
$13.0 million
costs of the Executing
equivalent of
Entities under Part F.2
disbursements;
of the Project
40% thereafter
up to a maximum
aggregate amount
of $17.0 million
equivalent of
disbursements;
and 15% there-
after
(6)
Rural credit under
 6,440,000
80% of amounts
Part F.3 of the
disbursed by
Project
BERON under
Part F.3 of the
Page  9
Project
(7)
Input supplies under
          390,000
80%
Part F.4 of the Project
(8)
For health, education
 8,980,000
75%
and water supply: goods
(not including computer
equipment), and
incremental costs of the
Executing Entities under
Part G.1, 2 and 3 of the
Project
(9)
Goods, works and consulting
       35,600,000
75% until an
services under Part D of
amount equiva-
the Project
lent to $27,400,000
has been withdrawn,
and 40% thereafter
(10)
Goods, consulting services  
 9,700,000
75%
and Incremental Operating
Costs under Part E of the
Project (including salaries
and per-diem)
(11)
Unallocated
 3,000,000
(12)
Grants under part C of
20,000,000
100% of the amounts
the Project
disbursed
TOTAL
      167,000,000
2.
For the purpose of this Schedule, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
any expenditure made for the operation and maintenance of equipment and offices used 
in the implementation of the Project, as well as expenditures related to: (a) per-diem 
in case of Parts A.4 and A.5 of the Project, as referred to in Category 1 (b) of the 
table in paragraph 1 above; and (b) salaries and per-diem in case of Part E of the 
Project, as referred to in Category 10 of such table.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals , in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$15,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after July 1, 1991;
(b)
Categories 1 (a) and (b) (except for the purposes of financing activities 
under Part A.5 of the Project) for expenditures related to any Protected Area listed 
in paragraph B of the Attachment to Schedule 2 to this Agreement, unless land 
ownership of such area has been transferred from the Borrower to Rondônia; and 
(c)
Category 9 for expenditures for works related to the paving of roads 
described in Part D.2 of the Project, unless land ownership has been transferred from 
the Borrower to Rondônia in respect of a group of 10 Protected Areas out of the 
Protected Areas listed in paragraph B of the Attachment to Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, such group of areas to necessarily include two state parks.
ANNEX 2
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower and Rondônia in 
managing the development and protection of the Amazon basin in the territory of 
Page  10
Rondônia and to: (a) implement policies, regulations and public investment programs 
all created to provide a framework for sustainable development in Rondônia; (b) 
implement the socio-economic-ecological zoning of Rondônia; (c) protect and enforce 
the borders of the Protected Areas; and control and prevent deforestation, wood 
transport and forest fires in Rondônia which are contrary to Brazilian laws and 
regulations; (d) support rural socio-economic development and conservation initiatives 
at the local level; (e) support priority investments in socio-economic infrastructure 
and services in accordance with the socio-economic-ecological zoning of Rondônia; and 
(f) consolidate the technical and operational capacity of Rondônia’s institutions 
participating in the Project.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon, from time to time, to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A. :  Management of the Protected Areas and Land Regularization
To conserve the biological diversity  and create the  basis for the sustainable 
utilization of the Protected Areas, including:
1.
Socio- Economic-Ecological Zoning of Rondônia
Executing Entities: SEPLAN-RO, ITERON
(a)
Preparation of the socio-economic-ecological zoning of Rondônia, 
including the preparation and distribution of small-scale maps to assist in the 
detailed planning and implementation (including agro-ecological, climate, soil and 
topographic maps) of such zoning, through the provision of office equipment, and 
consulting services; and
(b)
Preparation and implementation of information and awareness activities of 
the civil society related to the socio-economic-ecological zoning of Rondônia, through 
the provision of consulting services and the financing of incremental operating costs.
2.
Management of Protected Areas of Indirect Use:
Executing entities: SEDAM-RO, IBAMA
(a)
Improvement of Rondônia’s environmental policies and strengthening of its 
environmental legal framework, particularly with respect to natural resources 
conservation, through the provision of consulting services;
(b)
Carrying out of co-management plans of the state parks of Corumbiara, 
Guajará Mirim and Serra dos Reis and the environmental assessment studies of the 
following Protected Areas; (i) ecological station of Serra dos Três Irmãos and Samuel; 
(ii) biological reserves of Ouro Preto and Traçadal; (iii) national park of Pacaas 
Novos; and (iv) municipal parks of Porto Velho and Pimenta Bueno, through the 
provision of field equipment and consulting services, the financing of  incremental 
operating costs and the construction of minor infrastructure facilities;
(c)
Carrying out, on a pilot basis, of a co-management system to be 
implemented in the state parks of Guajará Mirim, Corumbiara and Serra dos Reis through 
the provision of consulting services, and the financing of incremental operating 
costs; and 
(d)
Preparation and implementation of an integrated environmental  education 
program for the state parks of Guajará Mirim, Corumbiara and Serra dos Reis through 
the provision of consulting services, and the financing of incremental operating 
costs.
3.
Management of Protected Areas of Direct Use:
Executing entities: SEDAM-RO, ITERON, FUNAI
(a)
Carrying out of the HSP, through the provision of medical and field 
equipment, consulting services, and the financing of incremental operating costs;
Page  11
(b)
Construction and maintenance of at least 7 infirmaries for indigenous 
patients, through the carrying out of works, the provision of equipment and the 
financing of  incremental operating costs;
(c)
Operation and maintenance of three specialized teams for the 
identification and interdiction of areas inhabited by isolated indigenous groups, with 
priority to be provided for the areas of Corumbiara and Muqui, through the provision 
of field equipment and consulting services, and financing of incremental operating 
costs;
(d)
Preparation of a health service and education programs for the population 
of the extractive reserves of Rondônia, through the provision of consulting services;
(e)
Preparation of 22 utilization plans for the following extractive 
reserves: Machadinho (15 areas), Baixo São Miguel, Curralinho, Rio Preto Jacundá, Jaci 
Paraná, Rio Cautário, Rio Pedras Negras e Rio Pacaas Novos, through the provision of 
consulting services, and the financing of incremental operating costs; and
(f)
Establishment and implementation of a sustained forestry management model 
in the state forest Rio Vermelho, rehabilitation of a center for technological 
development of natural resources in the national forest of Jamari, and completion of 
the seed bank infrastructure in the municipality of Ariquemes; through the provision 
of consulting services, construction and rehabilitation of small infrastructure 
facilities, laboratory and office equipment and the financing of incremental operating 
costs.
4.
Land Regularization:
Executing Entities: INCRA, ITERON, FUNAI
(a)
Demarcation of the Massaco indigenous area, and registration of the 
Karipuna indigenous area; through the provision of consulting services, the carrying 
out of works, and the financing of incremental operating costs;
(b)
Demarcation of the following Protected Areas:  (i) Cuniã extractive 
reserve; Rio Vermelho and Rio Machado state forests; and (ii) Serra dos Reis state 
park; Samuel and Cuniã ecological stations, through the carrying out of works,  
provision of consulting services, and the financing of incremental operating costs;
(c)
Preparation of the technical projects, and carrying out of land survey 
and field visits required for transferring to the State of Rondônia the land ownership 
of the following Protected Areas:  (i) Serra dos Reis state park; (ii) Rio Ouro Preto 
and Traçadal biological reserves; (iii) Mujica Nava ecological station; (iv) Rio Preto 
Jacundá and Rio Baixo São Miguel extractive reserves; (v) and Rio Madeira, Rio 
Vermelho and Rio Machado state forests; through the provision of field equipment, 
consulting services, and the financing of  incremental operating costs;
(d)
Carrying out of land regularization activities (field inspection, 
cadastral control and land titling) approximately 6,300 farm plots in the settlement 
project areas of: São Felipe, Itapirema, Vitória da União, Urupá, Tancredo Neves, Rio 
Preto do Candeias, Machadinho and Cujubim, through the provision of vehicles, boats, 
field equipment, consulting services, and the financing of incremental operating 
costs; and
(e)
Carrying out of field surveys, cadastral controls and revisions of 
approximately 1,100 land sales contracts in the settlement project areas of: Gleba 
Graças, Corumbiara, Baixo Candeias and Igarapé Três Casas, through the provision of 
vehicles, field equipment, consulting services, and the financing of incremental 
operating costs; and
(f)
Establishment and operation of a state land data bank system, through the 
provision of office equipment, consulting services, and the financing of incremental 
operating costs.
5.
Protection of Natural Resources and Enforcement:
Page  12
Executing Entity: SEDAM-RO
(a)
Strengthening of the capacity of IBAMA, FUNAI, Federal Police, SEDAM-RO, 
Secretariat of Public Safety (for the benefit of the  Instituto de Criminalística) and  
PM to implement applicable environmental legislation through the carrying out of 
activities such as field inspection, monitoring and control of wood based industries 
and polluting industries; and monitoring and control of wood transport in the 
Protected Areas; all in accordance with the priorities and timetable defined by the 
IEC, and on the basis of data generated under the Project such as forest cover maps, 
river pollution data, forest burned area information, climate data and licensing of 
wood based industries, through the provision of vehicles, computers, field equipment, 
consulting services, and the financing of incremental operating costs;
(b)
Institutional strengthening of SEDAM-RO for the purposes of preparing the 
following outputs: (i) forest cover data for 1996 and comparison study with the forest 
cover data 1995; (ii) data and information on water pollution of the Madeira, Mamoré, 
Machado, Machadinho, Candeias e Jamari rivers; (iii) data and information on the 
forest burned areas; (iv) climate data; and (v) data and information about licensing 
and monitoring of wood based industries; through the provision of computers, office 
equipment, consulting services, and the financing of incremental operating costs; and
(c)
Carrying out of seminars and public discussion activities on  
environmental legislation, including on the draft environmental law submitted by 
Rondônia’s Governor to Rondônia’s Legislature on March 4, 1997 revising  Law No. 547 
of December 30, 1993, aiming at gathering public input and support on the enforcement 
of the applicable environmental legislation in Rondônia.
Part B.  Institutional Strengthening, Studies, and Technical Assistance
Executing Entity: SEPLAN-RO
Carrying out of training and technical assistance on Project related activities 
for the benefit of Executing Entities staff, as well as preparation of studies on the 
experiences derived from Project implementation, through the provision of consulting 
services and the financing of incremental operating costs.
Part C.  Community Initiative Support Program (PAIC)
Executing Entity: SEPLAN-RO
Financing of small scale community investments consisting, inter alia, of: (a) 
infrastructure investments such as rural water supply, electrification and 
construction of small bridges; (b) social investments such as construction, 
rehabilitation and provision of equipment for health posts and rural schools; (c) 
agricultural investments such as small-scale community agro-processing, purchase of 
agricultural tools and minor irrigation equipment; and (d) other investments oriented 
for environmental conservation and rehabilitation, such as field equipment, tools (for 
the recuperation of degraded areas and establishment of nurseries), consulting 
services and incremental operating costs (for environmental education and protection 
activities).
Part D.  Road and River Transport
Executing Entities: DER-RO, ENARO
1.
Rehabilitation of about 3,900 Km of state and municipal feeder roads;
2.
Pavement of three road segments of approximately 123 Km of existing state feeder 
roads along the following road sections:  (a) RO-370 segment Colorado D’Oeste-Cabixi; 
and (b) RO-473 segment Ouro Preto-Urupá; and (c) RO-010 segment Rolim de Moura-Nova 
Brasilândia; 
3.
Completion of 63 Km of on-going pavement works along the state roads RO-470 and 
RO-479 and completion of the on-going construction of the concrete bridge crossing the 
Rio Machado on the state road RO-479 (municipality of Rolim de Moura);
4.
Carrying out of technical supervision (including environmental supervision) 
Page  13
activities of construction works, through the provision of consulting services related 
to: (a) the construction of the paved section of roads and of the on-going pavement 
works (RO-470 and RO-479);  (b) preparation of the environmental impact assessment of 
state road RO-370, section Colorado D’ Oeste Cabixi; and (c) revision of the 
engineering designs of the paved section of roads (RO-370, RO-473 and RO-010); and
5.
Improvement of river transportation facilities through: (a) the carrying out of 
repair and maintenance of five freight and passenger boats; and (b) construction of 
one slipway in concrete in the port of Guajará-Mirim.
Part E.  Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation.
Executing Entities: MPO-SEPRE and SEPLAN-RO
Supporting the SPCU and the FPCU, for the purposes of, inter alia, coordinating 
and managing Project implementation activities, including monitoring and evaluation, 
through the provision of vehicles, computer and office equipment and consulting 
services and the financing of incremental costs.
Part F.  Agro-Forestry Development and Research
To consolidate deforested areas in two Zones of the Project (Zones 1 and 2) 
having better soils and being capable of sustainable agriculture by:
(a)
concentration of agricultural support services in the most productive and 
fertile areas;
(b)
promotion of cultivation of suitable perennial crops (excluding coffee 
and cocoa);
(c)
expansion of the cropping area on fallow land or abandoned pasture land;
(d)
diversification of the crop mix by promotion of new crops (excluding 
coffee and cocoa), development of mixed cropping systems and crop rotation techniques; 
and
(e)
reinforcement of efforts to retain forest reserves at the farm level by 
development of replanting and extraction techniques.
1.
Agro Forestry Research:
(a)
Applied research work in Rondônia on mixed cropping systems, improved 
forest-fallow management systems; agro-forestry, disease control, genetic improvement, 
tree crop diversification, introduction of new tree species and research for natural 
forest management, with priority Zones 1 and 2, as appropriate; and (b) construction 
of staff houses, offices and laboratories and provision of equipment.
2.
Rural Extension:
Provision of sustained agro-forestry practices, and increase in efficiency and 
integration of the extension work through:
(a)
joint planning and staff training;
(b)
establishment of combined on-farm demonstration areas, promotion of 
farmer’s associations, provision of communication programs, and technical assistance 
to, and training of, farmers; and
(c)
construction of staff houses and offices, and provision of training 
facilities and equipment.
3.
Rural Credit:
(a)
Formal establishment of a denominated in-kind credit system (FUNDAGRO); 
(b) administration of such system by BERON; and (c) gradual provision of denominated 
in-kind credit on the terms and conditions set forth in the FUNDAGRO Operating Manual 
for investments and essential inputs, for crop diversification (excluding coffee and 
Page  14
cocoa) and forest-fallow enrichment in crop rotation systems.
4.
Input Supply:
Establishment of small nurseries in Zones 1 and 2 for clonal gardens and 
planting materials and production of seeds and seedlings for commercial sale.
Part G:
 Socio-Economic Infrastructure and Services
1.
Health:
Consolidation of the existing health systems in Zones 1 and 2 through:
(a)
training of rural health agents, nurses and doctors;
(b)
strengthening of supervision at state, municipal and field levels;
(c)
provision of equipment, medicines and permanent material; and
(d)
health assistance for acute care of Indigenous Populations (including the 
construction of infirmaries).
2.
Education:
Consolidation of the rural education system in Zones 1 and 2 through:
(a)
rural teacher training;
(b)
improvements in the supervision system at the state, municipal and field 
level; and 
(c) provision of equipment and materials for use, inter alia, in the 
rehabilitation of rural schools.
3.
Water Supply:
Completion of water supply and water treatment systems commenced by established 
rural service centers for settlers, to reduce health problems caused by 
water-transmitted diseases.
*    *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 1998.
Attachment to Schedule 2
List of Protected Areas under the Project
A.
Federal Areas:
1.  National Forest:
Jamari.
2.  National Park:
Pacaas Novos.
3.  Indigenous Areas:
Karipuna, Massaco, Muqui, Rio Mequens, Rio 
Guaporé, and Sagarana; Pacaas Novos, 
Roosevelt, Tubarão Latundê, 
Uru-eu-wau-wau, 
Sete de Setembro, 
Rio Branco, Aripuana, 
Igarapé Lage, Rio Negro Ocaia, Igarapé 
Ribeirão, Igarapé Lourdes, and Karitiana.
4.   Federal Resex:
Cuniã, and Rio Ouro Preto.
5.    Ecological Stations:
Cuniã.
Page  15
B.
State Areas (Areas’ Land Ownership to be Transferred from the Borrower to the 
State of Rondonia):
1.  State Forests Reserves:
Rio Madeira A, Rio Madeira B, Rio Vermelho B, 
Rio Vermelho C, Rio Machado, Tucano, 
Araras, 
Periquitos, Gaviao, Mutum 
and Cedro.
2.  State Parks:
Corumbiara, Guajara Mirim and Serra dos Reis.
3.  Biological Reserves:
Rio Ouro Preto and Traçadal.
4.  Ecological Stations: 
Serra dos Tres Irmãos, Samuel, and Mujica 
Nava.
5. Extractive Reserves:
Rio Preto Jacundá, Machadinho (15 areas: 
Freijó, Ipê, Angelim/Jequitibá,Garrote, 
Maracatiara, Roxinho, 
Aquariquara, Piquia, 
Sucupira, 
Mogno, Massaramduba, Itauba, Jatobá, 
Seringueiras, and Castanheira); Baixo São 
Miguel, Curralinho, Jaci Parana, Rio Cautario, 
Rio Pedras Negras, and Rio Pacaas Novos.
C.
Municipal Parks:
Porto Velho and Pimenta Bueno.
