Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3444 BR
Project Agreement
(Rondonia Natural Resources Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF RONDONIA
Dated September 19, 1992
LOAN NUMBER 3444 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September l9, 1992, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF RONDONIA (Rondonia).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred sixty-seven 
million dollars ($167,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that Rondonia agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Rondonia, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section l.0l. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.0l. (a) Rondonia declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with the
participation of the Borrower, through SDR-PR, and of the following Borrower's 
agencies: FUNAI, IBAMA, INCRA, EMBRAPA and CEPLAC, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
agricultural, ecological, environmental and conservation practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations under this Section 
2.01, Rondonia shall with its own resources acquire in a timely manner all electronic 
and computer equipment required for the carrying out of the Project.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon its obligations under this Section 
2.01, Rondonia shall carry out, and cause BERON to carry out, Part B.3 (b) and (c) of 
the Project in accordance with the FUNDAGRO Operating Manual.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Rondonia shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. By no later than December 31, 1993, Rondonia shall prepare, 
through ITERON, in consultation with Secretaria de Assuntos Estrategicos da 
Presidencia de Republica, statewide agro-
ecological, climatological, soil and topographic maps at scales of: (a) one to fifty 
thousand for Zone l (1.1); (b) one to one hundred thousand for Zone 1 (1.2); (c) one 
to two hundred fifty thousand for Zones l (1.3 and 1.4), 2 and 3; and (d) one to five 
hundred thousand for Zones 4, 5 and 6, or such other scales as the Bank may agree 
upon, all satisfactory to the Bank, and shall distribute the same, under Part A.l of 
the Project.
Section 2.05. Rondonia shall: (a) maintain with staffing, structure and 
functions within SEPLAN-RO the State Project Coordinating Unit managed by a Project 
Director assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers and which shall include a 
monitoring and evaluation unit (the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit), all as agreed 
with the Bank;
(b)
by no later than December 31, 1992, complete the revision and 
simplification of all project performance indicators and all operating procedures of 
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit,
and make the new system function in a manner which is satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
by not later than December 31, 1992, complete a baseline study of 
socio-economic and environmental indicators of at least three municipalities 
representative of the Project area; and
(d)
by no later than December 31, 1994, complete, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank, through the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, with the participation of SDR-PR 
and under the supervision of MEFP, a joint mid-term review of the Project and a final 
assessment of the impact and effect of agro-ecological zoning on economic and social 
development within Rondonia and present the same to the Bank by such date for review 
and comment.
Section 2.06. Without limitation to its other reporting obligations under the 
General Conditions and this Agreement, Rondonia shall furnish to the Bank, through 
Page  3
SDR-PR, no later than
three months after the close of each semester during the fiscal year, reports prepared 
by SEPLAN-RO of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request: (i) 
to June 30 in each year; and (ii) to December 31 in each year summarizing, in each 
case, the progress in carrying out the Project during such year and to such date.
Section 2.07. In respect of Part B.3 of the Project, Rondonia shall:
(a)
(i) prepare the FUNDAGRO Operating Manual; (ii) implement the same in 
accordance with its provisions in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; 
and (iii) except as the Bank may otherwise agree, not alter, amend, fail to enforce, 
or vary such provisions; and
(b)
in each year evaluate, through the State Project Coordinating Unit with 
the participation of the interinstitutional FUNDAGRO credit group referred to in the 
FUNDAGRO Operational Manual, SDR-PR and MEFP, the performance of FUNDAGRO, and shall 
provide an annual evaluation on FUNDAGRO's performance to be sent to the Bank for 
review by March 31 each year.
Section 2.08. In each year: (a) Rondonia shall request an independent evaluation 
committee (the Independent Evaluation Committee), which will include representatives 
of relevant local Brazilian non-governmental organizations, to review, with the 
participation of MEFP: (i) the implementation of the environmental policy and 
regulatory reforms undertaken in connection with the
Project; (ii) the compatibility of the annual federal and state investment programs in 
Rondonia and the agro-ecological zoning; and (iii) the performance achieved in respect 
of each of the various
Project components; and (b) starting in 1993, by June 30, Rondania shall present the 
findings of the Independent Evaluation Committee to the Bank for its review and 
comment.
Section 2 09. Rondonia shall maintain throughout the Project, and revise in each 
year, its media program (intended to discourage migration to Rondania and to generate 
information concerning agro-ecological zoning), and shall present to the Bank, for its 
review and comment, by no later than November 15 in each year, the revised program and 
the timetable for the following year, and shall implement the same in accordance 
therewith.
Section 2.10. Rondonia shall maintain the following state Conservation Units and 
reserves: state ecological station Serra dos Tres Irmaos; state parks of 
Guajara-Mirim, Candeias and Rio
Corumbiara; state biological reserves of Rio Ouro Preto and Tracadal; state forest 
reserves of Rio Sao Domingos, Rio Abuna, Rio Roosevelt and Rio Madeira; and the 
extractive reserve of Rio Preto/Jacunda.
Section 2.11. (a) By no later than June 30, 1993, Rondonia shall present to the 
Bank, for comment, draft decrees providing for the establishment of the following 
state Conservation Units under Part A.2 of the Project: Serra dos Parecis and Serra 
dos Reis (state parks); Rio Pacaas Novos, Rio Novo, Sao Miguel/Pedras Negras, Jacy 
Parana and Rio Cautario (extractive reserves); and Rios Guapore, Mequens, Machado and 
Vermelho (state forests); and (b) by no later than September 30, 1993, Rondonia shall 
establish by decree, and thereafter maintain, the Conservation Units referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.12. Rondania shall enter into:
(a)
an agreement with INCRA concerning land regularization policies and 
practices to be observed in the State, which shall be consistent with the objectives 
of sound forest protection and
management, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
through SEPLAN-RO, Operating Agreements with each Executing Entity 
involved in the implementation of a part or parts of the Project, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including the terms and conditions contained in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(c)
an agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the Borrower, through 
Page  4
SDR-PR, which shall contain each party's obligations in relation to the implementation 
of the Project.
Section 2.13. (a) Rondonia shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank, with notification to SDR-PR, with regard to progress of the Project, 
the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, the Operating Agreements, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Rondonia shall promptly inform the Bank, with notification to SDR-PR, of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by 
Rondonia of its obligations under this Agreement and the performance by Rondonia and 
each Executing Entity under each of the Operating Agreements.
Section 2.14. Rondonia shall: (a) ensure that policy reforms under its existing 
Reform Program shall be enforced throughout the duration of the Project; (b) ensure 
that its investment program, which currently takes into account land use capabilities, 
ecological, and agro-ecological zoning considerations, shall, at each annual update 
thereof, be maintained consistent with such considerations and compatible with such 
zoning; and (c) by September 30 in each year during the execution of the Project, 
present to the Bank, for its review and comment, any intended update of such 
investment program for the forthcoming year.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Rondonia shall maintain separate records and accounts adequate 
to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
Rondonia shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, Rondonia shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made,  all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
Page  5
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into full force and effect on the date 
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Rondonia 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Rondonia of such 
termination. 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RGA)
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For Rondonia:
Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento
   e Coordenacao Geral de Rondonia
Rua Padre Chiquinho, 580-Pedrinhas
Esplanada das Secretarias
78900 Porto Velho, Rondonia
Brazil
Telex:
692341
With copies to:
(i)  DDR/SDR-PR:
Departamento de Desenvolvimento Regional
Secretaria do Desenvolvimento
Page  6
Regional da Presidencia da Republlca
Esplanada dos Ministerios - Bloco "E" - 7o andar
70062 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61 1096
(ii) DEAIN/MEFP:
Departamento de Assuntos Internacionais
Ministerio da Economia, Fazenda e
   Planejamento
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco "K"
5o Andar
70063 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61 2207
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Rondonia, may 
be taken or executed by the Secretario de Planejamento e Coordenacao de Rondonia or 
such other person or persons as the Secretario de Planejamento e Coordenacao de 
Rondonia shall designate in writing, and the Secretario de Planejamento e Coordenacao 
de Rondonia shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and Caribbean
STATE OF RONDONIA
By /s/ Assis Canuto
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  7
Section I:
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.l hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided however that:
(a)
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate 
any preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following two groups:
(i)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder 
shall have 
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank 
that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at 
least 50% of the value 
of the completed goods.
 
(ii)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
(c)
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves; without taking 
into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or sales and similar 
taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery of the goods pursuant to the 
bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a 
result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for 
the award.
(d)
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest 
evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with 
the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of 
goods to be imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have 
to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the 
c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph (c) above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local Competitive Bidding: Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$500,000, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $13,500,000, 
helicopter services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $2,000,000, and 
works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $5,000,000, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $48,600,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  8
2.
Shopping: Items or groups of items of office furniture and equipment and other 
similar goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000 per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000, may be procured on 
the basis of evaluation of price quotations from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Force Account: Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, the Bank 
shall finance the cost of materials in relation to works which are small and cannot be 
grouped into contracts of at least $150,000 equivalent (excluding works under Part C.3 
of the Project) and to the extent that such works do not exceed in the aggregate the 
equivalent of $6,000,000, which works may be executed
under force account.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
l.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and cinal contracts
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $3,000,000 or more, each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$300,000 or more, and the first two contracts for works and the first two contracts 
for goods under Part C.l of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 4 of Appendix l to the Guidelines shall apply. When payments for such contract are 
to be made out of the Special Account, as the case may be, such procedures shall be 
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) of the said Appendix shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. When payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account such procedures shall be modified 
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other 
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be 
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 
of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix l 
to the Guidelines. 
Section II:
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist Rondonia in carrying out the Project, Rondonia shall employ 
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section III:
Other Provisions
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes FSRMM.
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of Operating Agreements
The Operating Agreements to be entered into between Rondonia, through SEPLAN-RO 
and the Executing Entities shall, inter alia:
(a)
set out execution guidelines, targets and procedures, including funding 
mechanisms and conditions linked to performance criteria for the implementation of the 
portion or Part of the
Project to be implemented by each Executing Entity and for the coordination of the 
activities thereof with those of other Executing Entities in respect of the different 
Parts of the Project;
Page  9
(b)
provide for the obligation of each Executing Entity to submit periodic 
progress reports and annual operating plans to SEPLAN-RO in accordance with the 
provisions of this Agreement and of the General Conditions; and
(c)
provide for the obligation of each Executing Entity to comply and agree 
to be bound by, where applicable, the terms and conditions and provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and the Project
Agreement and, particularly, those of Articles IV and III thereof, respectively.
