Page  1
Document of
 
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 
25209
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(
CPL-41200
)
ON 
A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF 
US$24.0  MILLION
TO 
THE  STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO NORTE
BRAZIL
FOR 
 A 
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
03/07/2003
ESSD
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their 
official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
Page  2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 
June 30, 2002
)
Currency Unit 
 =
Real
  
R$1.00
 =
US$  
0.35
US$ 
1.00
 =
R$2.84
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
     
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AACC
Association for the Support of Rural Communities
APCR
Program of Support for Small Rural Communities 
CAERN
Electricity Company of Rio Grande do Norte
CAS
Country Assistance Strategy
CDR
State Rural Development Council
CEAAD
Center for Studies in Assistance and Development
CODEC
Project Coordinating Unit, State of Rio Grande do Norte
EMATER-RN
State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency
FAO/CP
World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program
FECAMP
Federal University of Campinas
FETARN
Federation of Agricultural Workers, Rio Grande do Norte
FUMAC
Municipal Community Schemes
FUMAC-P
Pilot Municipal Community Schemes
IICA
Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
IERR
Internal Economic Rate of Return
INCRA
National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform
MIS
Management Information System
NGO
Non-governmental Organization
NRDP
Northeast Rural Development Program/Project
O&M
Operation and Maintenance
PAC
State Community Schemes
PCU
Project Coordinating Unit
POA
Annual Operating Plan
QAG
Quality Assurance Group
R-NRDP
Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program/Project
SEBRAE
Brazilian Service for Support to Small Business
SEPLAN
State Secretariat of Planning and Finance
SETAS
Secretariat for Labor and Social Action
TU
Technical Unit
Vice President: 
David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:
Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:
John Redwood
 
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:
Luis O. Coirolo
 
Page  3
BRAZIL
Rural Poverty Alleviation - Rio Grande do Norte
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data
1
2. Principal Performance Ratings
1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
22
6. Sustainability
24
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
25
8. Lessons Learned
28
9. Partner Comments
31
10. Additional Information
33
Annex 1.  Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
34
Annex 2.  Project Costs and Financing
35
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
37
Annex 4.  Bank Inputs
45
Annex 5.  Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
46
Annex 6.  Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
47
Annex 7.  List of Supporting Documents
48
 
Page  4
Project ID:
 
P038896
 
Project Name:
 
Rural Poverty Alleviation - Rio 
Grande do Norte
Team Leader:
 
Luis O. Coirolo
TL Unit:
 
LCSER
ICR Type:
 
Core ICR
Report Date: 
March 14, 2003
1.  Project Data
Name:
Rural Poverty Alleviation - Rio Grande do Norte
L/C/TF Number:
CPL-41200
Country
/
Department
:
BRAZIL
Region:
Latin America and 
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector
:
Other social services (27%); Agro-industry (22%); 
Power (22%); Water supply (22%); Sub-national 
government administration (7%)
KEY DATES
Original
Revised/Actual
PCD:
03/09/1996
Effective:
08/29/1997
Appraisal:
00/00/0000
MTR:
10/01/1999
02/15/2000
Approval:
12/12/1996
Closing:
06/30/2001
06/30/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency
:
STATE OF RGN/CODEC/SETAS; STATE OF RGN/SEPLAN
Other Partners:
Community Associations
STAFF
Current
At Appraisal
Vice President:
David de Ferranti
Javed Burki
Country Manager
:
Vinod Thomas
Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:
Mark E. Cackler
Constance Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:
Luis O. Coirolo
Luis O. Coirolo
ICR Primary Author:
Anna Roumani; with Project 
Task Manager Joao Barbosa de 
Lucena (LCSRE)
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly 
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome:
S
Sustainability:
L
Institutional Development Impact:
SU
Bank Performance:
S
Borrower Performance:
S
QAG (if available)
ICR
Quality at Entry:
S
Project at Risk at Any Time:
No
Page  5
3.  Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1
Original Objective:
The objectives of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (RPAP) in Rio Grande do Norte, as stated 
in the Loan Agreement were to “assist the Borrower’s efforts to alleviate rural poverty in the 
Municipalities by: (a) providing basic social and economic infrastructure and employment and 
income-generating opportunities; (b) supporting rural communities in planning and implementing 
their own subprojects; (c) providing a safety net for the rural poor; and (d) leveraging revenue 
mobilization at the community and municipal levels.” The project was part of the Bank’s Program 
of Targeted Interventions.  Accurate poverty targeting and the direct transfer of funds to the 
poorest communities, combined with supporting decentralized decision-making at the state, 
municipal and local levels, were important complementary objectives.
3.2
Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3
Original Components:
The project had three main components: (a) Community Subprojects (US$28.4 million, 90% of 
total base cost), supporting small scale investments of up to US$50,000, selected implemented, 
operated and maintained by the beneficiaries themselves; (b) Institutional Development (US$1.6 
million, 5% of total base cost), providing implementing bodies and communities with technical 
assistance and training to increase their capacity and improve project implementation; and (c) 
Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.6 million, 5% of total base cost), 
financing project coordination and activities to generate feedback on project performance and 
impact.  These components represented an appropriate set of actions to achieve project objectives 
and to benefit directly an estimated 520,000 poor rural people.  Project Cost at Closing was 
US$31.3 million, slightly lower than estimated at appraisal due to devaluation of the Brazilian 
Real/US Dollar exchange rate starting in 1999.
3.4
Revised Components:
Components were not revised, but the following changes were made: 
(a)  Closing Date was extended from June 30, 2001 to June 30, 2002; 
(b)  US$1,163,000 was reallocated from Categories 1(b) Pilot Grants and 1(c) PAC Grants* to 
Category 1(a) FUMAC Grants (US$763,000) and Category 2, Consultant Services and Training 
(US$400,000); and 
(c)  US$1,050,000 was reallocated from Category 1(a) FUMAC** Grants, Category 1(b) Pilot 
Grants and Category 4 Unallocated, to Category 2 Consultants’ Services and Training for Parts B 
and C of the Project.
Reallocated funds financed special studies for the sustainable development of the Seridó region of 
the state, focusing on family agriculture, and to define a series of activities where the state has 
competitive advantage domestically and/or in foreign markets.  Reallocated funds also boosted 
training for communities and FUMAC Councils.
*   State Community Schemes
**  Municipal Community Schemes, known as FUMAC Municipal Councils
  
3.5
Quality at Entry:
Appraisal of this project pre-dated the QAG.  Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory.
- 2 -
Page  6
Project objectives were appropriate given the state’s rural circumstances.  At the time of 
appraisal, severe poverty affected a high proportion of the rural population: 73% of rural heads of 
household had a monthly income at or below one minimum wage (then about US$112 and now 
about US$57 at current rates of exchange); 54% of rural adults over 15 were illiterate; 90% of 
rural families lacked access to safe water, 57% lacked proper sanitation facilities and 67% had no 
electricity; about one-third of rural children under five were chronically malnourished. 
Agro-climatic conditions in Rio Grande do Norte are difficult.  About 90% of the state falls within 
the region of the Northeast prone to severe drought and less than 20% of the state is suitable for 
cropping.
At the time of appraisal, the State’s strategy to combat rural poverty included supporting income 
generating programs especially for rural populations, developing water resources infrastructure 
and institutional systems for natural resource management, and decentralized forms of program 
planning, execution and management.  The proven success of community-driven mechanisms 
tested under the reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program (R-NRDP) in this, and 
other states of the Northeast, and the level of pent-up community demand at the closing of the 
R-NRDP, further validated project objectives.  Finally, the project was consistent with the Brazil 
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) of June 1995 and the June 1996 update, which identified 
poverty alleviation as the core of Bank efforts in Brazil.  The CAS emphasized lending to states, 
given their fundamental role in providing infrastructure and services, and on supporting the shift 
of expenditure and implementation responsibilities to the states, municipalities and  communities.
The approach diverged sharply from the models of several decades of Northeast rural 
development lending which had only limited impact on rural poverty.  Five basic principles 
underpin the new model: (a) place the funds for implementing approved subprojects directly into 
the hands of beneficiaries; (b) decentralize decision-making and involve local authorities as 
participants; (c) maintain transparent decision-making at all stages/levels; (d) stress community 
participation in planning, financing, executing, operating and maintaining their investments; and 
(e) use simple, explicit poverty targeting mechanisms which are straightforward to monitor.  The 
overall approach is administratively uncomplicated – there are no intermediary agencies or the 
coordination stresses which often accompanied earlier programs. This ensures that the vast 
majority (about 93%) of project funds are used for direct subproject investment, the remainder 
being used mainly for technical assistance and training of  beneficiaries and FUMAC Councils.
Three mechanisms of increasing degrees of decentralization are used to screen, approve and 
implement community requests for financing – PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P.   Under PAC 
(State Community Schemes), rural communities submit investment proposals directly to the State 
Technical Unit (TU) which screens and approves them, releasing funds to the beneficiary 
association. With FUMAC (Municipal Community Schemes), the State delegates investment 
decisions to project Municipal Councils, representative bodies comprising 80% community 
members and local civil society and 20% municipal authorities.  Councils discuss and establish 
community priorities, and approve community proposals.  Reviewed by the TU for consistency 
with the Operational Manual, proposals are then funded with disbursements flowing directly to 
the association bank account.  Councils are provided with an indicative annual budget, and 
- 3 -
Page  7
monitor/supervise subproject execution.  Associations submit statements of expenditure to the 
TU.  FUMAC-P, (Pilot Municipal Community Funds) is an even more decentralized variant of 
FUMAC, piloted under the RPAP.  These Councils have an annual budget established by the TU 
on clear criteria, and submit an annual operating plan (POA).  Approval of subprojects releases 
funds to the Council which manages their distribution to associations and assists with subproject 
execution.  The State concentrates on monitoring, technical assistance and supervision. 
Project design factored in the lessons of the R-NRDP, expanded successfully piloted features and 
introduced further innovations.  The FUMAC Councils were mainstreamed and FUMAC-P was 
introduced, giving greater control of budget resources to selected, high-performing FUMAC 
Councils. Beneficiary targeting and transparency were more systematic, performance incentives 
and penalties were introduced, and the Management Information System (MIS) was improved to 
support proper targeting, monitoring and evaluation, and project management.  An Operational 
Manual was introduced, with technical and financial guidelines/parameters. The new projects 
funded technical assistance (TA) to mobilize and organize communities, build capacity and 
encourage participation by NGOs and other entities.  Also introduced were standardized 
subproject designs and cost parameters, publicity/information campaigns, cost-sharing 
requirements for the state government and beneficiaries and best practice exchanges between 
involved entities and with other states.
The main source of risk for rural development projects had traditionally proved to be irregular 
funding, technical weaknesses and over-design, and inadequate supervision, mis-targeting of funds 
and centralized decision-making.  Prudent measures were included to avoid or reduce these risks, 
which worked well in practice.
4.  Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1  
Outcome/achievement of objective:
Rated Satisfactory
Objective – Providing basic social and economic infrastructure, and employment and 
income-generating opportunities:
The project met this objective, financing 1,809 small-scale investments in basic rural 
infrastructure, productive and social facilities, benefiting about 97,000 rural families or some 
390,000 people. Investments have responded to families’ needs by contributing to the basic 
conditions for improving well-being and livelihoods.*  Infrastructure investments were 59% of 
total subprojects; productive were 38%, a significantly higher proportion than other RPAP states; 
and social were 3%.  Rural electrification, water supply and animal-raising represented 62% of all 
subprojects financed.  Also important were irrigated agriculture and fisheries investments.  There 
was significant diversity of investments within all main types.
*   Other public programs operate in this and other Northeast states with varying degrees of efficiency, e.g., rural electrification.  
Water supply investments
, where the source may be surface or groundwater and the 
infrastructure itself comprise distribution networks, pipes, small-scale reservoirs, tube-wells, 
desalinization equipment, cisterns and storage tanks with standpipe, were the dominant type under 
this project.  Some 695 water supply investments benefited about 47,000 families at an average 
- 4 -
Page  8
cost of US$238 per family. The benefits are multiple, and include facilitating household labor, 
reducing the incidence of water-borne disease and of health care costs for municipal governments, 
savings in time normally spent in collecting water and to municipal and state budgets for reduced 
need to truck water in times of drought.*  Importantly, a high proportion of water supply systems 
installed have domestic connection which has been shown to increase communities’ commitment 
to the payment of user fees and to operation and maintenance costs.  Secure  water supply also 
paved the way for irrigated agriculture, a successful commercial activity in Rio Grande do Norte, 
including for many small-farmers in certain regions of the state growing melons, water melon, 
beans and papaya (see end 4.1, Box 1)
*  
As
 
stated in 4.3 and Annex 3, and extrapolating from data for the State of Rio Grande do Norte from the NRDP and 
R-NRDP, fiscal benefits are conservatively estimated at about R$1.8 million per year in a year of “normal” rainfall, and around 
R$4.0 million in a drought year for the 695 water supply subprojects implemented under this project.
 
Rural electrification investments
 in Rio Grande do Norte demonstrate community-level 
capacity to prepare and oversee the execution of essential, small-scale public works.  All such 
subprojects were executed by private firms, authorized by the Electricity Company of Rio Grande 
do Norte (CAERN, which also handles maintenance) and contracted directly by community 
associations, who monitor construction, pay contractors with funds transferred to the association 
bank account by the TU, and contribute 10% of the subproject cost. Installation of electricity 
supply for around 11,000 families is powering schools, streets, homes, village shops and 
small-scale processing units at an average investment cost of about US$420 per family. These 
subprojects provide access to information, means of communication, and household appliances; 
generate employment and incomes from the operation of small businesses and agro-industries; and 
permit evening school for adults and children, greater night-time security, and opportunities for 
leisure (see end 4.1, Box 2).
Animal raising
 ventures, mostly goat and sheep raising associated with milk and meat 
production, were among the most successful and interesting productive experiences financed by 
the RPAP in Rio Grande do Norte, which has now surpassed Bahia as national leader in this 
activity. Goat-raising has strong cultural associations (providing children with milk, and protein 
for poor rural families) and is compatible with the region’s semi-arid conditions.  It contributes to 
improving income and social organization of beneficiary families, while diversifying the supply of 
meat and milk. Also, the nature of goat-raising activities strengthens community associations by 
promoting leadership better-trained in associative/collective management.  The 180 goat-raising 
subprojects financed the acquisition of about 25,000 animals with an average five animals per 
family, benefiting directly about 5,000 families at an average cost of about US$270 per family.  
A survey of project Municipal Councils by the Technical Unit in late 2001 showed that this initial 
herd had multiplied to about 35,000 head (excluding animals sold, consumed or other), an 
increase of 40%.  About 60% of all such subprojects were concentrated in 12 municipalities.  
Distribution of animals by the community associations to new beneficiaries has increased the 
coverage of benefits.  Further, associations are establishing community development funds with 
the proceeds of  marketed animals, an important example of  replicating local development; other 
communities have specific cost-recovery objectives and strategies for using their community funds 
- 5 -
Page  9
to complement available public funds and obtain greater development impact.  Associations 
realize that goat herds’ resistance to drought and their relatively low-maintenance does not reduce 
producers' obligation to innovate.  Herd management is now focusing on sanitary controls, 
nutrition and reproductive issues, and the introduction of improved breeds crossed with native 
breeds to preserve regional characteristics.  Help is being provided by State programs to 
guarantee improved production and productivity. Communities involved in this activity are also 
organizing for the production and marketing of meat, milk, skins and other by-products.  A 
decisive factor in RN has been the daily “quota” of goat milk collected by the State Milk Program 
which has also generated a state price-support system.  Overall demand for goat meat currently 
exceeds supply, especially reliable supply for export markets in the Middle East and elsewhere, 
which have tremendous potential for small-scale goat producers in the Northeast (see end 4.1, 
Box 3)
Objective – Supporting rural community groups in planning and implementing their own 
subprojects:
The project successfully supported and funded rural communities in planning and executing their 
priority investments.  About 1,400 associations participated in the project and coverage of 
technical assistance and training was broad, due to the close collaboration in Rio Grande do Norte 
of established, well-organized and capable NGOs, the Church and other civil society bodies.* A 
number of regional technical assistance cooperatives also evolved in response to the demands of 
the project.  Being located in areas adjacent to communities meant their knowledge of local 
conditions was good and they provided a potentially valuable alternative to public TA services 
which are under-funded and weak (across most of the Northeast).  The State rural extension 
agency EMATER-RN did participate but its coverage and capacity remain modest.  The 
Technical Unit also used a system of “
parametros tecnicos
” to promote cost-efficient, technically 
sound investments in 10 major types of subprojects commonly demanded by communities.**  This 
had a number of benefits: promoted the participation of poorer communities by simplifying the 
preparation and analysis of subproject proposals; fostered greater competition and better quality 
execution of works; reduced subproject cost and communities’ dependence on private firms with 
sometimes uncertain levels of skill and capacity; and facilitated procurement.  Equally important, 
the mobilization, organization, training and technical assistance associated with the subproject 
cycle, along with the opportunities for collective, participatory discussion and decision-making 
about needs and priorities, fostered substantial social capital accumulation in beneficiary 
communities (Box 4).  Studies by Costa (2000 and 2001) included
 
constructing a Social Capital 
Index, which showed the degree to which social capital is evolving due to project demands on 
community resourcefulness (see end 4.1, Box 4). 
*  Service for the Support of Alternative Community Projects (SEAPAC); Association for the Support of Rural 
Communities (AACC); Federation of Agricultural Workers of Rio Grande do Norte (FETARN).
**  Manioc mill; bee-keeping; goat and sheep-raising; poultry-raising; cashew nut processing; small-scale 
irrigation; water supply systems; production support center; small-scale dam; energy (conventional and solar).
Objective – Providing a safety net for the rural poor:
Combined with other social programs funded by the state and federal governments, project 
- 6 -
Page  10
investments have represented a safety net in time of fiscal adjustment. The RPAP projects 
collectively, represent a comparatively successful, well-targeted safety net program.*  The project 
not only complemented traditional public investments in rural infrastructure (principally water 
supply and rural electrification) but also created income and employment opportunities which 
would otherwise not be provided to the poorest rural communities due to poor targeting and 
coverage of many traditional social programs, and more recently, strong fiscal constraints. For 
many NE municipal governments, especially those highly dependent on fiscal transfers, the 
Bank-supported rural poverty projects represent their major source of development funding. 
*  Evaluations of the RPAP indicate that 85% of beneficiaries have an income of less than US$1.00 per day.
Objective – Leveraging revenue mobilization at the community and municipal levels:
The Rio Grande do Norte Project, like its counterparts in other states, successfully leveraged 
revenue mobilization at the community and municipal level.  Under the project’s matching grant 
feature, beneficiary cost-sharing (family labor, materials and/or cash) totaled about US$2.7 
million, or 9% of total Project costs at Closing.  Cost-sharing by municipal governments was not 
required and while some municipalities did contribute,  data was not collected.  But. municipalities 
did frequently contribute to the overall project effort in the form of logistical support to FUMAC 
Councils (equipment, premises, transportation for meetings), time spent by municipal staff 
participating in Council meetings, and other contributions to community mobilization and 
technical assistance efforts.  Such assistance is deemed essential for these projects, building 
important cooperative linkages between the communities and municipalities (see end 4.1, Box 5).
Community Funds
:  Of particular interest and importance, a form of independent local revenue 
mobilization is occurring in Rio Grande do Norte through the formation of community funds and 
revolving funds using returns from the sale of products generated by productive subprojects.  
These funds are being used to finance other needed investments, independent of the 
Bank-financed program, and/or to achieve investments of greater scale and impact by 
complementing available public funds.  The initial project-supported investment ("seed capital") is 
generating, through partial cost-recovery and deposit of  funds collected into a community or 
revolving fund, sufficient capital for new investments in small machinery and equipment, and for 
seeds and animal medications.  This demonstrates the potential for independent community 
replication of investment activities and more rapid development (see end 4.1, Box 6).
- 7 -
Page  11
Box 1:  Baraúnas:  Making Progress with Irrigated Agriculture
The municipality of Baraúnas is situated in the western region of Rio Grande do Norte, in the semi-arid zone.  Until 
the mid-1990s, the municipal economy was based  on subsistence agriculture and on agro-livestock activities, mainly 
cattle and goat-herding, and was repeatedly decimated by drought.  Land-holding was concentrated with numerous 
large properties lying idle.  The 1980s initiated an intense pressure for land reform in the municipality, resulting in 
the expropriation of five large farms which were re-distributed among 164 poor rural families.  Initially, they lacked 
electricity, and drilling wells was costly.  Rain fed agriculture brought poor and intermittent returns.  Settler families 
resorted to state and federal programs in time of drought.  Electricity and water supply were subsequently installed 
under several programs including the Bank-supported R-NRDP.  But, despite their land and the high soil fertility, 
availability of water, supply of  labor familiar with melon-growing, and generally promising productive outlook, 
settlers remained poor, surviving mostly on rain fed agriculture and emergency programs.  From 1995 on, the 
R-NRDP started to finance small-scale irrigation subprojects which increased family income and output and provided 
training in irrigated agriculture, as well as the production and marketing of quality products, especially melon.  
Quality technical assistance was delivered by the Association for the Support of Rural Communities (AACC) under 
contract to INCRA (National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform).  Most important, the Bank-financed 
project helped settlers leverage complementary funds including bank credit, and served an important educative 
purpose.
Initially, settler’s melons were marketed through middlemen at low prices. Supported by AACC, associations 
established marketing agreements with exporting firms such as MAISA and FRUNORTE, well-known Brazilian 
agricultural conglomerates/exporters.  These firms supplied inputs and packaging and under forward pricing 
agreements, paid the producers R$2.50/12 kg box of melons.  With good productivity and high quality melons, this 
activity proved profitable for settlers and was subsequently replicated in other municipalities (Mossoró and Apodí).  
The three municipalities combined have 12 land reform settlements with a total irrigated area of 340 ha, benefiting 
666 families.  Production is impressive: 3,750 tons of melons, 4,500 tons of water melon, 1,018 tons of mango, 770 
tons of guava, 43 tons of cashew nut and over 500 tons of other tropical fruits such as acerola and graviola.  Pricing 
problems with purchasing firms by 1998 prompted the associations to establish their own agro-livestock cooperative 
(COOAPAB), to market directly.  With the support of AACC and World Vision (international NGO), COOAPAB 
began to export part of its melon production itself (50,000 boxes), at better prices.  COOAPAB pays each producer 
R$3.00/box, receiving R$5.00 for each box exported.  Profits are distributed among coop members.  For those 
producers still selling their melons outside COOAPAB, the coop’s presence in the market has been fundamental in 
their obtaining better prices; the same firms that had been buying their melons at R$2.50/box began to pay R$3.00 and 
then R$3.50/box.  The cooperative’s target is to export 300,000 boxes per year or 80% of the combined production of 
the three municipalities.  Settler income has increased from one minimum wage to over three, improving family 
well-being and living conditions. Other equipment has been purchased, housing has improved. Steady improvement is 
being made in product quality, quantity, and the production chain. The associations have leveraged technical and 
managerial assistance by exploiting synergies between various public programs. 
Box 2: São João do Sabugi: Rural Electrification as the Path to Jobs and Income
Rural electrification subprojects, established in the watershed of the Santo Antônio Dam, in the Municipality of São 
João do Sabugi, in the Seridó Zone of Rio Grande do Norte, are important examples of the concept of linking 
infrastructure with productive activities. The FUMAC-P Council in that municipality, in an open meeting with its 
members, decided to give priority to installation of electricity lines as a way of developing irrigated agriculture and the 
use of vacant lands in the dam basin. Built by DNOCS many years ago, this dam had an ongoing low usage rate due to 
the high cost of diesel oil motors required for the irrigation pumps. With electricity, adjacent areas which were 
customarily unused for half the year once the rains ceased, became areas of intensive cultivation with the planting of 
food crops and animal pasture, generating income, jobs and food for about 150 families.  In addition, electricity 
improved living conditions in the beneficiary communities, permitting lighting in homes and schools, the use of 
domestic appliances and agricultural equipment.  Subprojects of this type can exploit the potential for productive 
processes and stimulate other types of production formerly non-existent or not possible in poor communities.
- 8 -
Page  12
Box 3:  Jardim do Serido – Goat-raising with Milk Production
A goat-raising and milk production facility is being consolidated by the Community Association of Rural Producers of 
Jardim do Seridó into a successful experience of raising animals under semi-arid conditions.  There are visible signs 
everywhere that introducing improved milk breeding animals has increased the size and productivity of the herd and 
promoted better management.  Also, the community now has a milk storage facility; improved holding facilities and better 
herd management in the area where the herd is located; and, improved incomes of beneficiaries and stronger community 
organization.  High quality TA has been a vital factor since the beginning of this venture.  Some 52 females and 7 male 
breeders were acquired;  two females were distributed to each of  26 members. The males were distributed at strategic 
points to minimize distance and facilitate coverage of the females. Other equipment was also acquired including cans and 
a freezer for daily milk collection, storage and transportation to the processing plant; materials for construction of holding 
pens and repair of fences; and rations for the first month.  The milk is purchased by Laticinio Caicó Ltda at R$0.65 per 
liter. The association retains R$0.05 per liter sold, for operational costs, passing the rest directly to the individual 
producers.  Operational results are as follows: (i) 60 liters of milk produced daily; (ii) artesanal production of cheese, 
yogurt, sweets for domestic consumption and local sale; (iii) increase of about R$20.00 per month in beneficiaries’ income 
from milk sales; (iv) improved food consumption of beneficiary families; (v) better facilities for herd management; (vi) 
increased level of associative behavior; and (vii) entry into the milk production sector by establishing a market niche and 
making the activity sustainable.
Box 4:  Comunidade Cachoeira – Leveraging Benefits to Good Effect
The Association of  Brick-makers of Cachoeira Community (AOCC) sought to increase community employment and 
income by building a brick plant, financed by the Bank-supported project.   The community had a history of struggling for 
survival in semi-arid conditions with work opportunities limited largely to federal and state drought work-fare programs 
paying half the minimum wage.  Forming their association in 1985, the community slowly acquired, through various 
programs including the NRDP and RPAP, a community center, pig production facility, cheese-making plant and a truck to 
transport milk, water supply system, and two community brick-making ventures.  The experience with the latter is 
interesting.  Both were prepared by the technical team of the Parelhas municipality, working with SEAPAC (Church-based 
NGO), the latter providing continuous technical assistance to the Cachoeira community for organization as well as 
agricultural activities and management.  The combined production of the two brick plants is 768,000 bricks/month, with 
gross revenues of R$48,000.  Operating expenses, including salaries of R$23,300, amount to about R$45,100, resulting in 
a net income of R$2,900 per month.  The two businesses generate 90 direct jobs with monthly salaries ranging from 
R$168 to R$384 (average R$269) and also create another  60 indirect jobs for families within and outside the community.  
The two plants pay some R$53,600 per year in federal and state taxes, of which R$29,500 is ICMS, the value-added tax.  
Profits are re-invested in plant modernization and acquisition of raw material (clay) for brick manufacture.  The 
community economy, including a loan of R$20,000 from the Bank of Brazil, has already generated investments of about 
R$133,000, of which R$60,000 is the value of the clay stocks.
The community is characterized by intense mobilization activities, including four major events per year to raise funds for 
investments benefiting the entire community or to use as counterpart funding for subprojects.  Collective work is the norm, 
from cleaning the cheese factory, the association headquarters and community sports-ground, to building and renovating 
houses for the poorest members or vaccinating the community herd.  The positive, aggregate impact of community 
activities on well-being and income has generated significant acquisition of consumer and domestic appliances. The 
proximity of association members to place of work has permitted partial return to agricultural activities to supplement 
employment and income.  Some community members are studying at night.  The community now has simple, good quality 
economic and social infrastructure and a cadre of 16 state, municipal and community professionals including teachers and 
service workers.
This entire process succeeded because of a combination of factors, most notably: the unity and massive participation of 
community members; the experience and knowledge gained from all the activities undertaken over the years; the proximity 
of residences and places of work; and the support and technical assistance – managerial and learning skills – continually 
provided by state and civil society bodies including the R-NRDP, RPAP, SEAPAC and other bodies.  Particularly 
outstanding has been the participation of the AOCC representative in the FUMAC-P Council, through his unwavering 
commitment and energetic mobilization and organization of communities.  This Council is now, among other activities, 
focusing its attention on environmental conservation and the sustainable development of natural resources.
- 9 -
Page  13
Box 5: Serra Negra do Norte – Leveraging Resources through Integration.  
The example of Serra Negra do Norte illustrates the potential and importance of creating linkages between communities, 
local institutions, social  programs and projects, in pursuit of an objective.  The construction of 11small-scale reservoirs 
along the Espinharas River required greater funding than what was available under the Bank-financed project alone. Rural 
communities along the river had long observed the social and economic benefits for urban centers of several larger 
reservoirs in the same region.  The issues were discussed fully by the FUMAC-P Council and following identification of a 
possible solution among the members, a proposal was prepared in which municipal agencies and Council members 
committed themselves to bring together the needed financial, human and material resources to construct the reservoirs in 
one package, with participation of the directly affected population.  Once decided, funds to build the reservoirs were 
brought in from the Bank project, the Municipal Government of Serra Negra do Norte, the Mayor’s office of the 
neighboring Municipality of São Bento in Paraíba, the “Living with Drought” program, the state Agricultural Workers’ 
Union (FETARN) and beneficiaries (mainly materials and labor).  The results were impressive: (i) sufficient water to 
irrigate 440 hectares; and (ii) in the first full year, production of 340 tons of beans valued at R$119,000;  900 tons of water 
melon valued at R$135,000; and 288 tons of tomatoes worth R$87,000. In addition, some 6 ha of various fruits, 9 ha of 
other crops, and 76 ha of 
capineiras
 for improved animal feed and milk production, were also generated.  Some 250 jobs 
were created at a cost of about R$1,700/job, well below indices commonly used in the wider economy.  Also notable was 
the greatly increased production of fish for home consumption and sale in regional markets, attracting fishermen from 
other municipalities and from Paraíba.  Some of the families who left the communities for lack of basic conditions for 
survival, have returned. The reservoirs are able to tide families productively through drought periods. The NE rural 
poverty reduction model can be an important instrument to leverage funds from other sources for basic infrastructure and 
employment, strengthening local organizations, and fostering social capital in rural communities.  
Box 6: Community Association of Bom Jesus Builds an Investment Fund
The Community Association of Bom Jesus in the Municipality of Caicó, located in the midst of the semi-arid region of Rio 
Grande do Norte started up in 1995 with 60 members.  Since its inception, the association has signed agreements to 
execute productive and infrastructure subprojects based on the open discussion and approval of community proposals. One 
such agreement saw their acquisition of sheep and cattle for breeding, to be distributed among their membership without 
cost recovery obligations.  Guided by SEAPAC, a Church-affiliated NGO, the members subsequently decided to establish a 
scheme whereby 40% of the original subproject acquisition cost of each animal would be collected from members after two 
years, to build a “solidarity fund” for small loans to members.  Members who are up to date in their obligations to the 
association and need a small loan, make a request to the leadership; loans of up to R$500 are approved at 2% 
interest/month for 6 months, and signature of a promissory note. Delinquency is zero. The fund’s balance currently stands 
at R$10,000.  Funds have already been used to complement the cost of a small-scale reservoir, as well as to acquire 
machinery, equipment, seeds and animal medications.  This demonstrates that even in the poorest communities, like Bom 
Jesus, local development initiatives can be self-generated.  As the President of Bom Jesus says: “This fund enables the 
community to stand on its own feet without going into debt to the banks”.
The following factors were decisive: (i) State financial support under the RPAP project; (ii) credibility 
of the association leadership within the community; (iii) existence of the State Rural Development 
Council (CDR) which issued a resolution supporting cattle subprojects and state technical coordination 
assistance to ensure that subprojects are legitimate and well-executed; (iv) level of community 
organization; (v) systematic technical and managerial assistance; and (vi) community commitment to 
use the funds for their intended purpose.  This experience shows that a  new institutional model of local 
development is possible where associations support family investments through forms of cost-recovery 
(several methodologies are evident in Rio Grande do Norte) dedicated to further funding of investments 
selected, planned, executed and supervised by the communities themselves.  
- 10 -
Page  14
4.2  
Outputs by components:
A.  Community Subprojects
Rated Highly Satisfactory
This component was intended to finance small-scale investments selected, implemented, operated 
and maintained by the beneficiaries.  Investments of up to US$50,000 each would be financed 
through matching grants (public grants “matched’ with community contribution) to legally 
established associations identifying their priorities and committing to operation and maintenance 
responsibilities through their labor and/or user fees.  The project was expected to finance 1,280 
subprojects over four years, benefiting some 104,000 families organized into 640 associations in 
150 municipalities.  An estimated 62 FUMAC and 10 FUMAC-P Councils were to be established.  
It must be stressed that these targets were largely indicative due to the demand-driven, flexible 
nature of the project.
Subprojects:
   In just over four years, the Rio Grande do Norte RPAP: (i) implemented 1,809 
subprojects (141% of target) of which 1,063 were infrastructure (59% of total), 695 productive 
(38% of total) and 51 social (3% of total) benefiting about 97,000 families in 137 municipalities 
(93% and 91% respectively); and (ii) financed at least one subproject for 1,400 community 
associations (220% of target). These results are very satisfactory, especially given 
bureaucratic/administrative issues, including: (i) the Budget Regulation Law which - until 
concerted resolution by the Bank’s Recife-based Task Manager working with the State 
Government and Assembly - prevented the transfer of State funds to associations not classified as 
having “public utility”; (ii) the electoral season and settling-in period of 1998; (iii) the effects of  
severe drought; and (iv) a period of counterpart funding shortages (caused in part by the TU’s 
structure and status), all of  which affected project implementation in the first two years or so.  
Productive subprojects: 
These were a much higher share (over 38%) of the total in Rio Grande 
do Norte than other RPAP states, a trend established under the previous project.  A major 
achievement of the project, are the important, well-established instances of project-financed, 
agricultural ventures in melons and cashew nut (Box 7) contracted for export to European buyers.  
These ventures have thrived through a “formula” combining good quality, continuous  technical 
assistance in organization, technology enhancement and marketing provided by astute and capable 
NGOs, support from the State Government, Mayors and municipal officials, capable community 
leadership and evolving social capital within the communities themselves.  The involvement of 
Mayors in providing TA is promising. The Mayor of Bento Fernandes for example, at the urging 
of  communities, contracted an agriculturalist, a veterinarian and two technicians to assist 
goat-raising communities with the technically and financially challenging transition to milk 
production, as well as other potentially profitable activities such as fish farming in tanks using 
waste water retrieved from wells and desalinization systems.  There are other, similar examples.  
An awareness of the linkages between infrastructure and productive investments in job creation 
and income/well-being improvements has been consciously disseminated to Councils and 
associations by the Technical Unit and collaborating entities/NGOs (See end 4.2, Box 7). 
Beneficiary Coverage:
  Subproject distribution was egalitarian with no concentration of lending.  
The vast majority of communities (1,538 or 85%) received one investment.  About 270 
- 11 -
Page  15
communities were repeat participants, implementing two or more investments, but the overall 
spread was limited; 233 received two investments, 34 received three, two received four and the 
remaining two communities received five subprojects each.  Higher numbers of subprojects per 
community is attributed to old-established (R-NRDP), well-organized and agile associations, 
effective FUMAC Councils, and efficient subproject execution.  
The total potential beneficiary population in this state is estimated at about 1.1 million, and thus 
project coverage was about 35%, indicating a continuing high level of unsatisfied demand, known 
to be especially serious in the interior of the state.  Further, and as stressed in the Borrower’s final 
report on the project (IICA, 2002) and recognized by the project team, the Bank-supported 
projects cannot, by themselves, overcome this huge social and economic deficit in rural areas 
without establishing linkages and/or integration with complementary programs at the 
local level
.  
Significant headway was already made under the RPAP in establishing these linkages, and their 
importance and potential is explicitly recognized in the design of  the new Rural Poverty 
Reduction Project in this state.  A crucial integrative vehicle is the FUMAC and FUMAC-P 
Councils, which act as a forum for the participation of other program 
representatives and as 
clearing houses for information on other programs, for members.  There is also recognized 
potential for integration with other Bank-financed projects such as natural resources management, 
education and health, to increase coverage and deepen impact.  The model is already integrated 
into the Bank’s market-based land reform projects, through the financing of on-farm investments 
to complement land acquisition.
Quality
: The physical implementation review conducted by the Technical Unit for its own 
Mid-term Review (MTR) evaluation, found 85% of investments to be of good quality, 
well-executed and adequately-sized for community needs. These findings were verified by 
randomly-sampled subprojects assessed in 24 municipalities during the Bank’s MTR, and 
numerous others sampled during preparation of the new project and in the course of regular 
supervision. 
Costs
:  Average subproject cost at Closing was about US$14,000 – well below the US$50,000 
established at appraisal and about 40% lower than the average across all RPAP projects. An 
average of 55 families were benefited per subproject, across all types.  Average subproject costs 
decreased modestly throughout the project period, especially from MTR through Closing, 
declining from US$15,000 to US$14,000 in that period.  This can be attributed to the 
predominance of FUMAC in this state, which implies better subproject preparation and 
evaluation; assistance received by Councils from the Mayors; and the use of  “
projetos 
parametros
” (subproject specification guidelines) by the TU.  Cost per beneficiary family 
(US$270) was slightly below such cost for the entire RPAP (US$289).  Average costs of 
subprojects implemented directly by the community associations (usually in collaboration with a 
technical assistance provider) were from 30-50% lower than similar subprojects implemented by 
the public sector and of better quality and speed of execution.  Major cost savings were observed 
with subprojects implemented under FUMAC (average US$14,350) and FUMAC-P (average 
US$11,330) versus PAC (average US$29,500), validating earlier, similar assessments.  
Municipal Councils
:  The project established 93 FUMAC and 8 FUMAC-P Councils (150% and 
- 12 -
Page  16
80% of target, respectively).
  
Virtually all subprojects were being executed under FUMAC by 
end-Year 2.  Councils were generally well-structured with membership ranging from 9-15 
persons, 80% of which represented beneficiaries.  Members of Rural Workers’ Unions, the 
Church and NGOs usually attended Council meetings.  The TU adopted a strategy early on of 
municipal and inter-municipal seminars  to discuss operational norms and project implementation 
methodology with Mayors and municipal legislatures, rural workers’ unions, community 
associations, local political leaders, NGOs, public agencies and the Church.  Public agencies and 
NGOs with an interest in local sustainable development were mobilized and community bodies 
strengthened. The formal establishment of  a Council was subject to an act of the municipal 
legislature.  
Targeting and graduation
:  The targeting methodology was effective.  The vast majority of 
beneficiaries belonged to the intended cohort.  After the MTR, even greater effort was made to 
reach and intensify coverage of unorganized, more dispersed and usually poorer communities 
which had not yet participated. Some 16 new FUMAC Councils were established in municipalities 
with concentrations of such families and Councils became the agents for establishing the poverty 
ranking of communities, and hence their priority for mobilization, organization and investment.  
Participation of women was high, directly as the beneficiaries of specific forms of subprojects and 
more generally (see below).  Experience with the FUMAC Councils demonstrates that the 
communities themselves are the best-informed to target effectively.  Field observations in this 
state (and other NE states) showed that Councils were already encouraging communities which 
had improved their relative socio-economic standing, to seek alternative financing for other 
priorities, i.e. a form of  “graduation” from the project.  Councils were reducing the poverty 
ranking of such communities in favor of those which had yet to benefit.* Graduation is being 
addressed more formally and systematically under the new Rural Poverty Reduction Project in this 
and other Northeast states.  
*  
This is the natural outcome of huge demand, limited funds and the democratic instincts of Councils to ensure broad coverage. As already stated, 
both the depth and extent of coverage under this project in relation to demand, even with average subproject cost well below program norms, were 
modest.
Environment:
  The environmental risks (and impact) of subprojects have been generally modest. 
The project Operational Manual included environmental criteria, screening and enforcement 
procedures for subproject application, approval and execution stages and supervision missions 
maintained oversight of compliance.  All subproject proposals were subject to an environmental 
checklist.  In the case of certain infrastructure and productive investments, detailed screening by 
the TU was complemented by specialist assistance. The assessment and recommendations were 
included in the subproject proposal.  A permanent in-house environmental technician was 
contracted by the TU, at the Bank’s recommendation.  The training program for Councils and 
communities contained mandatory instruction on environmental issues.  The Mid-term Review 
recommended an action plan for instilling a culture of environmental awareness in the associations 
and Councils. Communities are informed of their responsibilities for avoiding environmental 
damage in the execution and operation of their subprojects.  
Women:  
While the RPAP projects do not incorporate “affirmative action”, their design and 
administration are sensitive to the conditions of rural women in the Northeast, and women are 
major beneficiaries of  water supply, rural electrification, access roads and housing improvement 
- 13 -
Page  17
subprojects and from their participation in and in specific cases, management of, certain forms of 
productive activity (small-scale agro-processing, clothes-making, animal-raising and other).  Some 
8,500 subprojects under the Bank-financed rural poverty projects in the Northeast, are managed 
by women.  This is not always a smooth process but the rewards and achievements in terms of 
changing traditional cultural patterns, the well-being and incomes of families and communities and 
in social capital development, are significant (See Boxes 8 and 9).
- 14 -
Page  18
Box 7:  Serra do Mel:  Family Processing of Cashew Nut for Export
The municipality of Serra do Mel has a comparatively long history of community-based production of cashew, having been 
established in the 1970s as a special project for agricultural production, passing through various socio/institutional stages 
since then.  The current production model centers around family-based processing units linked to more centralized 
industrial units governed by the Federation of Associations and Producer Cooperatives of Cashew of  Serra do Mel 
(COOPERCAJU).  FETARN, AACC, the Church and various NGOs have played pivotal roles in mobilizing and 
organizing communities, in preparing the Sustainable Development Plan and in supporting marketing/exporting efforts; 
the RPAP has financed the all-important processing equipment, packaging and business centers. There is a strong 
collective orientation in cashew processing, marketing and export (which is now extending to honey production as well).
Some 66 cashew nut processing subprojects including marketing centers have been financed with Bank resources in 
Rio Grande do Norte, 25 under the R-NRDP and another 41 under the RPAP, benefiting about 1400  families.  With 
each processing unit employing about four family members, about 5,600 jobs have been created.   Each processing unit 
has the capacity to process 100 kg of raw cashew/day (
caju em natura
) or about 2,000 kg per month, with the 
production of 20 kg of processed cashew/day or 400 kg per month.   Most nut production is still being processed for the 
domestic market.  Even for domestic sale, family processing of the raw nut is highly advantageous. The 5 kg of raw nut 
needed to obtain one kg of processed cashew costs about R$2.00, while a kilo of processed cashew is sold at around 
R$5.00 (average between types) in the domestic market or close to R$15.00/kg when exported, resulting on average in 
a doubling of family income. Virtually all cashew nut is now sold through the 
central, 
where further processing, 
grading and marketing of the nut is done to ensure it conforms to quality standards and international market demand.
Notable results are as follows: (i) significant improvement in income and quality of life due to value added activities 
replacing selling the raw nut; (ii) preservation of natural resources due to organic management of soil and growing 
conditions of cashew trees; (iii) integration of women and youth in  family processing activities - women hold a high 
proportion of the new jobs - and most workers live locally; (iv) better distribution of returns due to decentralization of 
processing activities to a larger number of families; (v) reduced intermediation margins due to access to different 
markets; (vi) safer working conditions for workers due to use of protective gear and respect for labor laws under more 
organized conditions; (vii) better quality control because manual processing preserves the whiteness of the nut and 
there is less breakage; and (viii) reduced cost of production due to use of family labor reducing social protection 
obligations of an “employer”. Serra do Mel now has significant export experience through repeat contracts with 
European buyers, demonstrating that under the right circumstances/conditions, poor rural families can successfully 
enter the global market!
  
Box 8: Jardim do Serido:  Generating Income from Artesanal Artistry
The “Our Fine Embroidery” subproject of the Caatinga Grande land reform settlement demonstrates that income-earning 
ventures are not solely agricultural, livestock-based or agro-industrial, under the RPAP and that women successfully 
manage such ventures.  An investment of about R$16,000 financed the purchase of sewing machines, equipment and 
training for 20 local women to produce high quality, machine-made embroidered items.  The association has already 
purchased, with income generated by this subproject, an industrial sewing machine, storage cupboard and 
goleira
 for 
workers.  As part of the operation and maintenance system adopted, participants have two years of management assistance 
and systematic supervision of production.  They take courses to develop skills and become qualified to produce new 
designs.  Gross annual returns have already exceeded the investment cost.  Of these, 10% is dedicated to O&M of the 
machinery and equipment, and plant management, and the remainder is distributed among the workers based on their 
individual production.  
Results
 of this venture include: (i) 50% of the group work one shift and study for the remainder of the day; (ii) all 
members have a skilled knowledge of embroidery; (iii) settlement-based producers are integrating with producers of 
artesanal articles in other communities for joint activities; (iv) all beneficiaries are knowledgeable in preparing a 
business/cost plan; (v) their production is recognized for its high quality and they participate regularly in regional and 
state craft fairs; (vi) income generated is of fundamental importance to the families benefited and is in many cases, 
their only income; (vii) many families are first-time purchasers/consumers of domestic appliances and bicycles; and 
(viii) several beneficiaries are now instructors in other communities, and the association has received visits from other 
groups from within and outside the state for training in the same skills.
- 15 -
Page  19
  
Box 9:  Força e União Association - Women Making a Difference
The Association of Rural Women Workers of Força e União in the municipality of São Rafael was established to bring 
rural women together within the agrarian reform settlement of  Serrote/Serra Branca in the vicinity of the second-largest 
water reservoir in the Northeast, the Armando Ribeiro Gonçalves Dam, (whose construction caused the community’s 
resettlement to its present location). This large municipality received 20 subprojects under the RPAP, including 3 fish 
farming, 6 water supply, 3 production support centers and 10 goat-raising, of which 9 were short-cycle meat production 
and one for milk. The latter represents an especially successful case in technical, commercial and social terms. 
The Serrote/Serra Branca settlement lives in precarious circumstances:  poor water quality despite proximity to the dam, 
extremely basic education and health facilities and inadequate access roads. While the existing community association did 
not expressly bar it, women were not encouraged to attend meetings, and could not vote.  So the women established their 
own association over vigorous protests from the male population and sustained it through a decade of obstacles, with 
members unable to read, with scant knowledge of how to run an association, and with disrupted meetings. The association 
President first taught the women to read, running classes at night, and through this process promoted the importance of 
associative action and organization. The symbolic act of constructing a community Xmas tree united the women, 
impressed the community and led to a series of other actions including legal formalization of the associations in 1999 with 
assistance from an NGO, the Center for Studies in Assistance and Development (CEAAD). The association learned of the 
project through state-run television promotion, and then of the existence of the FUMAC Council and their right to submit 
subprojects for approval. Having selected a goat-raising investment specifically to provide milk to hungry children in their 
community, the subproject was prepared by CEAAD.  This is where problems really started.  Male members of the 
settlement did not accept the women’s goat project and submitted a competing proposal to the Council. In the Council 
debate of respective merits and priorities, the women’s project was approved! Many difficulties dogged its progress 
initially, including lack of refrigeration equipment for the milk. But eventually it succeeded. 
Results
 are as follows: (i) the initial herd of 200 animals has expanded to 400; (ii)  the monthly production of milk is now 
600 kg in the winter  when feed is abundant. From this production, 400 kg are sold and 200 kg consumed domestically.  
Between harvest periods, when feed is scarce, monthly production drops to 400 kg, of which 300 kg are sold and 100 kg 
consumed. The gross return/month/member ranges from R$80.00 in the low period up to R$300.00 in the rainy  season; 
(iii) the price of the milk is R$0.60/liter  paid by a middleman who collects it weekly and stores it pending delivery to the 
Producers’ Association of Sertão and Angicos (APASA) which has a milk processing plant and sells milk to the state milk 
program; (iv) the association also produces a small quantity of goat cheese made by two of the women who received 
training from CEEAD; (v) membership of the association has grown from 27 to 50 and is likely to expand further; (vi) 
nutrition has improved with the introduction of milk, while the incidence of malnutrition-related disease such as diarrhea, 
rickets and nervous disorders, has decreased.  
Lessons
 from this experience include: (i) the benefits of community production of goats/milk versus government 
distribution lie in the sense of corporate achievement and solidarity.  Everyone is working and dependence on government 
has decreased; (ii) there has been a profound change in the cultural relations between the community’s men and women 
(however, within the existing association of men, the women can now vote but still cannot be voted, for office); (iii) the 
women state that the association and the subproject have made them aware of their weighty responsibility, they are able to 
access appropriate people/groups to provide assistance, and they have learned to think about and discuss issues; (iv) the 
women value the FUMAC Council above the Mayor and municipal government because it is more responsive and provides 
a forum for resolving issues; (v) men in the community have developed respect for the women’s achievements, and the 
project has reduced gender inequality.
B. Institutional Development
Rated Satisfactory
The project funded technical assistance (TA) and training for the Technical Unit, the Councils and 
the associations to develop institutional capacity.  Given the weakness of public technical 
- 16 -
Page  20
assistance services and limited coverage and efficiency, as stated earlier, this state has been 
fortunate in leveraging, through the project, TA for the communities and Councils under 
partnerships with capable, committed NGOs, the Church, newly-evolving regional TA 
cooperatives and other bodies.  Funds reallocated to this component boosted training for 
communities and project Municipal Councils, and financed a series of studies: (i) for the 
sustainable development of the Seridó region of the state, focusing on family agriculture; and (ii) 
to define a series of activities where the state has competitive advantage in domestic and/or 
foreign markets (determined to be tourism, irrigated horticulture and petro-chemicals).
Administrative modernization under the  “reform of the state” sub-category successfully achieved 
the following:   (i) an Institutional Development Program which trained a state team to analyze, 
diagnose and propose improvements in the organizational structure of the Public Administration.  
The outcome was a reformulation of the State Government Executive Branch, with 800 fewer 
positions and savings of US$5.2 million per year; 
(ii) a public opinion survey concerning the Voluntary Separation Program (PRODEVIR), 
permitted an evaluation of its effectiveness within the public service.  The program generated 
some 3,000 voluntary separations and savings of about US$5.5 million annually in State 
payments; and 
(iii) restructuring of state agencies and entities to permit methodological and conceptual training 
of sector technical teams in the State Secretariats of Administration and Education.  Technical 
teams trained as a result of this component worked on state modernization and reform.  The State 
Government now has a leaner, less heirarchical organizational structure, with personnel costs 
sharply reduced to about 50% of annual revenues.
C.  Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
Rated Satisfactory
This component performed as expected, supporting project coordination and activities to monitor, 
supervise and evaluate project performance, quality and impact; incremental operating costs 
(excluding salaries) of the TU to enhance supervision and strengthen project operations; the 
project MIS, evaluation studies and the state’s initial and subsequent publicity programs to raise 
awareness of project norms and methodology.
4.3  
Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR did not include an economic or financial rate of return for the project. Instead, an 
analysis was provided to illustrate the kinds of benefits achieved under the R-NRDP for the most 
common types of investments.  Similar benefits were expected on a larger scale from each of the 
state Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects, including Rio Grande do Norte.  The types of 
subprojects financed by the RPAP did not differ markedly from the R-NRDP.  A similar analysis 
has therefore been done of the program-wide investments under the RPAP for cost-effectiveness 
and sustainability*, and the financial viability of productive subprojects.  Conclusions about fiscal 
impact are also suggested.  See below and Annex 3.
*  See also Section 6 for broader discussion of sustainability.  
  
- 17 -
Page  21
Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability
The CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery to the rural poorest works 
cost-effectively in the Northeast, when supported by several basic design features: (i) establishing 
priorities and selecting investments within an open democratic forum, the Councils; (ii) using 
standard technical designs and cost parameters, ensuring the use of least-cost models and 
established patterns of initiating and completing subprojects; and (iii) delegating implementation 
to community associations, which generates cost-savings relative to similar works executed by 
public agencies.  The contracting procedures in the Operational Manual require direct contracting 
through competitive processes on all subprojects; associations obtain three price quotations and 
select the least-cost.  Analysis of a random sample of subprojects including ten categories 
representing about 80% of types financed, found RPAP costs to be about 30-50% cheaper than 
subprojects of similar quality, implemented by the state.  In the six states surveyed, including Rio 
Grande do Norte, the majority of subprojects were rated technically satisfactory and of good 
quality.  Operation and maintenance have been good, with associations charging appropriate user 
fees in most relevant cases.  The Borrower end-of-project evaluation for Rio Grande do Norte 
(IICA 2002) found that 94% of all subprojects remained operational at end-project.  In a separate, 
NE-wide evaluation in 2000, some 89% of a sample of 8,123 R-NRDP (1995) and RPAP 
(1997/98) subprojects remained fully operational.  There was no substantial difference in 
sustainability across infrastructure, productive or social investments.  
Fiscal Impact
Evaluations of the RPAP in the states of Bahia, Ceará and Sergipe indicate that subproject 
investments make a significant fiscal contribution through cost savings to state and municipal 
governments, and revenues from sales tax.  Despite the dearth of current data in Rio Grande do 
Norte, extrapolation from the NRDP/R-NRDP project, and the large numbers of beneficiaries of 
water supply and rural electrification subprojects in this state, suggest substantial fiscal impact.  
Benefits are conservatively estimated at R$1.8 million per year under "normal" rainfall conditions, 
and about R$4.0 million in a drought year, for the 695 water supply subprojects implemented 
under the RPAP.  In the case of water supply subprojects, this derives from the reduced number 
of  state and municipal water trucks needed in time of drought, and reduced public health costs 
from reliable, clean water supply.  In the case of rural electrification, the main fiscal impact comes 
from a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity becomes 
available, increasing the ICMS revenue to municipalities.*  
*  ICMS is collected by the state and all municipalities receive 25% of collections regardless of where it is collected.
4.4  
Financial rate of return:
Internal Economic Rates of Return (IRR)
IRRs were estimated for the most common types of productive subprojects financed under the 
program.  These all exceed 30%, an indication of the overall profitability of productive ventures 
normally financed under the RPAP.  Evidence also shows that benefits are largely concentrated in 
the beneficiary communities.  The analyses assumed constant benefits over a ten-year subproject 
- 18 -
Page  22
life.
Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects
Benefit cost ratios are high (>2.0) and investments are financially sustainable, based on analyses of 
12 selected, typical, productive subprojects.  While beneficiaries receive a one-time investment 
matching grant from the RPAP, it is financially sustainable because cost recovery through user 
fees is generally adequate to cover O&M and replacement of the original investment long before 
the end of its useful economic life.  All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return, some 
of them being high.  Less than six years are needed to recover the
 
investment in all cases and less 
than 3.5 years in half the cases.  IRRs compare favorably with the real cost of borrowing to the 
Brazilian Government, which at the time of the analysis was about 11-12%.
Testing financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was done on the illustrative 
models which determined the following: some subprojects – generally those highly dependent on 
purchased inputs (fish farm, dairy plant, bakery) – are more sensitive than others to changing 
market conditions.  In all cases, the worst scenario is one where prices decrease.
4.5  
Institutional development impact:
As a participatory, demand-oriented mechanism, the Rio Grande do Norte project involved a 
range of actors and stakeholders.  The institutional impact of the unusually strong and diverse 
involvement of civil society organizations in this state, was quite profound, especially in 
productive subprojects through mobilization, organization and technical assistance activities. The 
decentralized execution of this project demonstrated that new institutional models can be 
developed for executing public policy by integrating State and civil society entities in local 
development actions. Under the RPAP and new project, this means the State, through the 
Technical Unit, retains responsibility for rule-setting, financing and evaluating local development 
processes and impact; the Municipal Councils manage the project in the local context; NGOs, 
technical assistance cooperatives and small, specialized firms are responsible for technical and 
managerial assistance to community organizations; and finally, the community associations 
prepare, execute, operate and maintain subprojects designed to benefit their members and the 
broader municipality.  Key institutional ingredients for success are the political, economic and 
social context, social organization and management, the formation of local leadership with stable 
residence in the area, and popular participation in local development.
Community Associations:   
Community associations established under the project generally 
performed well. Members typically met their collective responsibilities and they have benefited 
from the efforts of mayors, the Technical Unit and especially civil society entities to disseminate 
information and create the conditions under which communities could benefit.  Membership of 
associations has proven to be inclusive with women increasingly and successfully assuming 
leadership roles.  Importantly, the benefits have tended to reach non-members as well as members.  
Technical assistance is crucial for the sustainability of associations at their formative, 
organizational stage, throughout the investment cycle and longer-term.
- 19 -
Page  23
Municipal Councils:
  By providing a forum for open, community-wide discussion, the project 
Municipal Councils have increased transparency, reduced political interference, improved 
targeting, and built social capital in poor rural communities and municipalities.  FUMAC and 
FUMAC-P are undoubtedly more effective than PAC in inducing social and cultural change.  
Having an annual indicative budget and a voice in decisions pertaining to municipality-wide 
planning priorities has created a new, decentralized model for implementing public policy by 
integrating State public agencies and civil society at the local level. The Councils are becoming an 
integral part of local, annual and multi-year government planning, steadily overcoming the risk of 
being short-lived, parallel structures by gradually fusing with local government.  They are 
increasingly respected by local populations and their elected officials as valid representatives of 
broader civil society, for their social coordination and management role, and as partners of local 
administrations in fostering and sustaining municipal development.  By end-project, the Councils 
were parlaying skills acquired via community mobilization and subproject oversight into other, 
non-project areas such as rural development planning, income generation activities (agricultural 
and non-agricultural) and the environment. Across the entire Northeast, an estimated 30% of all 
Councils are now making decisions on priorities for the use of municipal resources, not only 
project-related.  
Many Councils have become the focal point for institutional networks of cooperation and 
solidarity involving a range of public and private entities. This is particularly evident in the Seridó 
region where such partnerships  include Federal agencies and research organizations.  As an 
example of the potential larger-scale development role of the Councils, the Seridó Regional 
Sustainable Development Council integrates 28 FUMAC Municipal Councils into a 
“mega-Council” which coordinates works and funding of ongoing public programs totaling 
US$200 million, to improve regional development indicators. 
The Councils are still, as in other participating Northeast states, consolidating their most 
important role as forums for the exercise of participatory democracy, local governance and local 
development management, roles to be strengthened and expanded under the new project. The 8 
FUMAC-P Councils established under the RPAP are providing a valuable opportunity for 
evaluating this strategy at its most decentralized, given their actual annual budget, their 
participation in the socio-economic study of the municipality which precedes  their preparation of 
an Annual Operating Plan, and the intense discussion of priorities for the entire municipality which 
this process generates.  
Technical Unit:  
The TU administers the project, acts as a counterpart for the Bank’s supervision 
role and as a vehicle for communication with the Bank and State Government, and is the main 
liaison with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils and in PAC municipalities, with the community 
associations.  Bank efforts to negotiate changes in the TU’s structure designed to increase its 
financial and administrative autonomy had only modest results until the final stages of the project, 
a situation largely beyond the control of the TU itself.  Nevertheless, the TU’s institutional capital 
evolved steadily, the result its commitment to the project, inherent technical capacity, training 
received through the project, and the experience gained from leveraging greater impact from its 
project coordination and management role by collaborating with NGOs and civil society bodies.  
This was an unusual feature of the project in the Northeast context, where NGO involvement has 
- 20 -
Page  24
been modest.   Existing NGOs have slow to engage despite efforts to recruit their interest, and/or 
they lack the capacity to assist effectively.
Evaluation
:  The project baseline study looked at 449 families in 129 communities and 39 
municipalities.  With the Bank's agreement, the final evaluation envisaged at appraisal and using 
this baseline cohort/data was postponed to mid-2003 to allow RPAP subprojects to mature and to 
accommodate then-expected changes in the Tecnical Unit.  Separately, an impact evaluation of 
selected RPAP projects, including Rio Grande do Norte, was contracted to FECAMP (Federal 
University of Campinas, State of São Paulo) under Bank-agreed terms of reference and state 
cost-sharing arrangements, and is underway.  In the interim, IICA studied the physical results and 
performance of the Rio Grande do Norte project, providing case studies supporting conclusions 
about project impact (IICA 2002).  An extensive study which also included Rio Grande do Norte 
examined the decentralized model itself, the cost-effectiveness of subproject investments, and the 
economic and social capital impact on beneficiaries (Van Zyl et al, 2000).  Economic and financial 
analysis for the new Rural Poverty Reduction Project in this state, updated and expanded Van 
Zyl's work.  Rio Grande do Norte was also one of six RPAP states included in a community 
participation study which analyzed and measured social capital formation, and assessed the 
institutional impact of the project on the community associations, Municipal Councils and 
Technical Units (Costa 2000).  This was followed by further analysis of social capital evolution 
and recommendations for its enhancement (Costa 2001).   Conclusions from all except the 
FECAMP study and planned final project evaluation, are incorporated in this ICR, including 
Annex 3, Economic Costs and Benefits.
Social Capital:  
Fostering social capital has been a striking achievement of the RPAP including in 
Rio Grande do Norte.  The Municipal Councils have reduced political interference and clientilistic 
pressures and patterns;  created partnerships between private and public stakeholders; given 
communities a voice in public resource allocation; fostered citizenship through greater awareness 
of social responsibilities; and strengthened communities’ and municipal governments’ capacity to 
select, set priorities for and implement, investment decisions.  Social capital has grown through 
the impact of successive rural poverty programs and through the increasing decentralization of the 
mechanisms themselves – from PAC, to FUMAC, to FUMAC-P.  Social capital gains at the 
municipal and community levels can be seen in the significant number of Municipal Councils 
which have gone beyond subproject decision-making to being participatory venues for municipal 
planning and the allocation of non-project funds (i.e., other public programs); and community 
associations which are using social capital acquired under the program to obtain other, previously 
unavailable investment financing, including through their own cost-recovery, savings and 
re-investment efforts.  The experience of the Community Associations of Canudos and Nova Vida 
in the Vale do Ceará Mirím illustrate some of the above themes (Box 10).
- 21 -
Page  25
Box 10:  Learning by Doing:  Community Associations of Canudos and Nova Vida
The Agrarian Reform Settlement of Rosario houses about 120 families on 2,400 ha, with two community 
associations.  Settlers lived for several years with no electricity, and with crude wells distant from homes, 
plagued by Schistosomiasis, and with water dangerous to use. Dwellings were precarious, mostly shacks 
of wattle and daub infested with the Chagas insect. Perhaps because of their misery, these communities 
were prepared to take risks and learn as they went along.  For example, standard designs for housing 
financed and constructed by INCRA were modified because the communities met and decided the 
designs were inadequate and worked collectively in 
mutirão
 to build bigger and better quality houses 
with the same INCRA-allocated budget (R$2,500), overcoming INCRA’s protests. In similar vein, the 
associations acquired electricity, tube wells and piped water supply to their homes, arguing that without 
a minimum of basic infrastructure for living decently, neither successful productive activity nor 
self-esteem could grow. The RPAP arrived when their self-esteem was lowest.  
Water supply and energy were their first demands from the project. The well has 30,000 liters/hour 
capacity.  Each family pays R$4.00/month for operation and maintenance, and about R$27.00/month for 
electricity.  Two volunteers maintain the equipment and inform the association if repairs are needed.  
When the pump burned out, the association replaced it from their accumulated fund.  Their present goal 
is to consolidate the association.  The immediate impact of their investments was improved health and 
education and the ability to introduce irrigated agriculture, small-scale agro-industry and other, 
non-agricultural activities.  The existence of a deep well with good quality water immediately reduced 
the incidence of infections and of Schistosomiasis.  Electricity increased educational opportunities, 
especially for adults, and resulted in an irrigation subproject to produce 
mamão
 (papaya) under contract 
to Gaia, a firm involved in the domestic and export marketing of this fruit. Two NGOs specialized in 
irrigated agriculture (Coopermix and Magma) prepared the proposal and provided TA.  Electricity also 
permitted the communities to install a banana-processing unit, generating 12 permanent  jobs.  The 
banana meal, once sold to middlemen for a paltry R$10-12/unit, increased to R$25-30/unit. Other 
banana products are being tested such as paste, chips and chocolate, with women from the settlement 
receiving training in their production.  High rates of value-added are being achieved from these products 
compared to the product in its natural state, e.g., one 
milheiro
 of banana can produce 20 kg of flour, sold 
for R$4.00/kg, for a return of R$80.00.  100 kg of banana produces 30 kg of paste for which the local 
supermarket price is R$8.00/kilo.  The potential to diversify productive activities is favorable. For 
example, with increasing prices of wheat due to the rising US dollar, it is increasingly common to 
include 
fecula da mandioca
 with wheat flour, up to a 30% limit, in bread.  The associations are seeking 
to create a regional marketing center to provide institutional mechanisms to support the marketing of 
family agriculture.
The lessons for decentralized local development are: (i) the strategic importance of leaders the 
communities believe in, who are qualified and experienced in mobilization and above all, who identify 
with the communities; (ii) social participation is a process which works and is consolidated through 
autonomous institutions which promote dialogue with State agencies and society, and consensus on local 
development. This is a pedagogical process through which people become aware of their rights and 
responsibilities as citizens and of the means to exit from dependence; and (iii) specialized technical 
assistance and forward production contracts are essential to any strategy for marketing the products from 
family farms.   
 
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1
Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The principal factor in this category and which negatively affected the project in mid-period was 
the severe drought lasting two years.  The Technical Unit funded a significant number of 
- 22 -
Page  26
subprojects on an emergency basis, especially water supply and small-scale dams, to alleviate the 
conditions of affected communities.  These had employment benefits for families facing failing 
crops, avoided more serious livestock and animal losses and significantly lowered the fiscal cost to 
local governments of trucking water to communities.
5.2
Factors generally subject to government control:
Three factors affected the project until resolved or eased.  First, the Technical Unit’s legal status 
and structure as a directly state-administered body attached to the Secretariat for Social Action 
(SEAS), was not ideal for a project dependent on agile decision-making and action.  Such status 
implies a heavy bureaucratic load and slowed overall project execution, subproject processing and 
release of resources to communities with approved subprojects.  While this constraint was never 
totally eliminated despite Action Plans agreed with the State by Bank supervision missions, 
backed by the potential for suspension of disbursements, improvements were sufficient to greatly 
accelerate project execution starting in the third year, resulting in the project exceeding many 
critical targets.  The good cooperation of the Technical Unit was instrumental in this outcome.  
Another issue  was the state’s tight fiscal situation and policies which reduced its ability to 
provide its counterpart share of subprojects.  Nevertheless, the state was always committed to the 
project, the counterpart situation eased and the Loan was fully-disbursed by Closing.  Finally, the 
Budget Regulation Law prevented the transfer of state funds to associations not classified as 
having "public utility".  The Bank's Recife-based Task Manager resolved this issue, working with 
the State Government, State Assembly and the Technical Unit to obtain an exemption for 
associations affiliated with the project.
5.3
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A number of factors within the responsibility/control of the Technical Unit were detected by Bank 
supervision and Mid-term-Review missions (see 7.2).  Most issues were resolved in a satisfactory 
manner or were carried over, by mutual agreement between the Bank and the TU/Borrower, for 
more profound analysis and treatment under the new RPRP.
5.4
Costs and financing:
Total project cost was US$31.3 million compared to the estimated US$32.0 million due mainly to 
the effects of devaluation of the Real/US Dollar exchange rate starting in 1999.  Reallocations of 
Loan funds totaled US$1.16 million.  Component costs varied from appraisal estimates, with 
expenditures for FUMAC some 8% higher lower, and for PAC  about 50% lower.  FUMAC-P 
costs were 49% of the appraisal estimate.  Institutional Development greatly exceeded the 
estimate (225%) and Project Administration was about 37% lower.  The Loan of US$24.0 million 
equivalent was fully-disbursed.
Procurement:  
The project methodology for providing goods, works and services in a CDD 
context is innovative and generally worked well.  Acquisitions under the community subproject 
component were handled directly by community associations in all cases – by direct community 
implementation or through community contracting of firms/agencies for this purpose.  
Associations obtained price quotes from three suppliers for all subprojects (a process verified 
repeatedly by questioning of beneficiaries during field visits).  In the case of electrification, all 
subprojects were prepared by specialized firms and approved by the Electricity Company of Rio 
- 23 -
Page  27
Grande do Norte (CAERN). All contracting for installation was done by the communities who 
also supervised works and contributed their 10% counterpart share.  Direct execution of 
subprojects by the associations is linked closely to good quality and lower cost.  Prices paid by 
community associations were significantly lower than investments of similar quality executed by 
public companies/institutions.  The use of 
parametros tecnicos
 and unit costs (as per the 
Operational Manual) and providing associations with procurement guidelines, simplified 
procurement, reduced the under- or over-sizing of subprojects and made supervision and 
monitoring easier.*  The only issue affecting procurement efficiency was a tendency for 
procurement processes to be unduly rigid due to over-zealousness and in some cases, inadequate 
understanding of how it was meant (by the Bank) to function.  This situation was rectified as part 
of the Mid-term Review follow-up. 
*  
The TU prepared a set of technical parameters and cost guidelines for the most commonly-demanded subprojects including: 
goat-raising, manioc mill, beekeeping, small bird raising, cashew processing, production support centers, conventional and 
solar energy,  plus a range of water supply facilities including cisterns, pressure irrigation, water-tanks and small-scale 
reservoirs, all of which substantially decreased subproject cost.
Audit: 
 Audit performance was subject to opinions of Qualified-exception for Project/SOE and 
Unqualified for the Special Account.
  
No serious issues of accountability or internal control were 
defined during the audit analysis process.  The TU responded promptly and effectively to Bank 
requests for corrective actions when needed, aided by the proximity of the Recife Office-based 
project Task Manager who was able to  maintain dialogue and monitor progress in resolving any 
audit issues. 
6.  Sustainability
6.1
Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated Likely
Institutional:
  Analysis shows that by assigning greater responsibility and influence to local level 
organizations and municipal entities, the Rio Grande do Norte RPAP successfully supported the 
decentralized allocation of resources and social capital formation in rural areas.  The potential for 
linking the Municipal Councils to municipal planning and budget processes and programs, as well 
as alternative credit and financial services is promising and already underway.  The intended 
outcome of this process is to graduate certain communities which have accumulated sufficient 
assets (from Bank-supported and other programs) and organizational capacity to access 
mainstream financing and other services, under a strategy which includes facilitation assistance 
from various sources including the Bank (see PADs for new, RPRP projects).
Physical:
  Involving beneficiaries at all stages of the investment cycle, combined with subroject 
cost-sharing requirements (minimum 10%) builds commitment and ownership and contributes to 
ensuring the proper operation and maintenance of subprojects.  Further, the democratic processes 
characteristic of FUMAC and FUMAC-P result in prudent priority-setting and selection of 
subprojects by beneficiaries, increasing long-term sustainability.  Only subproject proposals with 
realistic, community-funded operation and maintenance plans, were approved and financed.  The 
Technical Unit and FUMAC Councils monitored performance during project execution.  
- 24 -
Page  28
Financial: 
  The financial sustainability of investment subprojects was confirmed by analysis and 
field assessment.  As previously stated, studies done in 1995 (under R-NRDP) and 1997/98 
(RPAP) of well over 8,000 subprojects across all participating states, and during the Rio Grande 
do Norte MTR (2000), found that just under 90% remained fully operational.  Analysis of 
productive subprojects has repeatedly shown that cost recovery through user fees paid by 
beneficiary associations adequately covers both operation and maintenance, and replacement of 
the original investment long before the end of its useful economic life (Annex 3).  As mentioned in 
Section 4 of this report and in the IICA analysis (2002), the Rio Grande do Norte project showed 
important steps being taken by small-scale producers (beneficiaries) of goat and sheep products 
and community ceramic products (bricks, roofing materials), as well as  beneficiaries of water 
supply subprojects, to recover costs for the purposes of establishing community funds for further 
investment to complement existing facilities, expand installed capacity, operate and maintain 
investments and even pay for community leisure activities.
6.2
Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no special transition arrangements to regular operations.  Subprojects are executed, 
released to the community association (which technically and legally owns the investment) and 
become operational under pre-established rules/guidelines and procedures for this phase.  Further, 
the new Rural Poverty Reduction Project (Loan 4667-BR) has introduced many improvements 
and innovations based on the successes and lessons of the RPAP, and designed to deepen 
communities’ access to basic services and productive activities in preparation for their ultimate 
graduation to “regular operations” in the more comprehensive sense.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1
Lending:
The Bank’s performance during identification, preparation and appraisal is rated Satisfactory.  
The Bank recognized that the R-NRDP signaled a successful shift away from the traditional rural 
development model and that it merited follow-up, based on lessons, the strong  response from 
beneficiaries, the model’s ability to generate positive multiplier effects, and on its capacity to 
mobilize/leverage additional funds from communities and even municipalities.  Evaluation of the 
R-NRDP showed that over 90% of disbursements were reaching targeted beneficiaries, and the 
diversion of funds for non-intended uses was sharply reduced.  The participatory approach 
increased community organization and self-esteem, increased transparency and demonstrated that 
poor rural communities can influence the allocation and use of resources to reduce poverty.  
Investments were generally cost-effective, of satisfactory quality, and had positive impact on 
family well-being, income and employment.
Design was calibrated to the lessons of the R-NRDP and the results of initial preparation missions, 
which conducted field surveys and discussed the new model with the State Government, the 
Secretariat of Social Action, the Technical Unit and with community and municipal leaders.  
Further improvements were expected from deeper decentralization, more refined targeting, 
better-designed monitoring and information/evaluation, cost-sharing rules, standardized 
subproject design and cost parameters, environmental review, and an improved Operational 
Manual.  Preparation was marked by openness to further innovation, which has become a 
hallmark of this program.
- 25 -
Page  29
7.2
Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory.  About 86 staff weeks were expended on supervision, 
greatly exceeding the 28 estimated at appraisal.  Project execution benefited from stable Bank 
task management throughout and regular supervision missions.  Mission Aide Memoires show 
thorough oversight of the project and a focus on accountability and follow-up.  The advantages of 
the Bank’s Recife Office – proximity to the client, experienced Task Managers and administrative 
personnel, long-standing relationship with Northeast state governments and knowledge of the 
CDD mechanism and its evolution in the Northeast -- are clear.  Recife-based managers have also 
effectively disseminated the Northeast experience and accumulated know-how to visiting foreign 
delegations from many countries, and assisted Bank task teams in other regions/countries.  By 
delegating supervision activities to this local office (including procurement reviews and field 
visits), Bank support is consistent with the decentralized structure of the Northeast program, with 
the way business is increasingly done in Brazil, and with the Bank’s own shift in recent years to an 
in-country operational mode.
Implementation issues were defined and addressed as they arose, in collaboration with the TU.   
Supervision missions were preceded by an advisory document prepared at Headquarters showing 
latest performance indicators from the MIS, highlighting any apparent issues and including a 
suggested random sample of communities for field visits.
  
PSRs were prepared at Headquarters 
on the basis of the Aide Memoire, the MIS and complementary information, essentially freeing the 
Recife-based Task Manager to focus on the project.  The project was correctly rated Satisfactory 
for Development Objectives and Implementation Progress, throughout.
The main supervision issues noted by Bank missions in Aide Memoires and resolved in 
collaboration with the Borrower/Technical Unit, were:
 (i) State officials were preoccupied with the potential impact of El Ninho-related, serious 
drought.  Measures were taken to intensify project implementation, focusing on infrastructure, 
especially water supply/storage, which would also provide employment. Steps were taken to 
ensure that community priorities continued to be respected. Contracted firms were obliged to use 
locally-sourced labor. A high-level state committee was established to prepare and implement a 
state drought-alleviation strategy. 
(ii) Intense state-level bureaucracy (delaying the release of funds to the communities), structural 
deficiencies in the Technical Unit (and other difficulties such as TU staff working less than a full 
day due to state fiscal tightness), and shortages of state counterpart funds, delayed project 
execution in the first two years and reduced the autonomy and flexibility of the TU. The Bank 
negotiated an Action Plan with the State Secretary of Planning and Finance, other senior state 
authorities and the TU, to restructure the TU and simplify processes for reaching and carrying out 
agreements with the communities. While it was not possible, despite persistent follow-up by the 
Bank, to achieve 100% compliance on all agreed restructuring and bureaucratic processes, there 
was sufficient change, combined with the steady evolution of the TU’s institutional “capital”, to 
permit the project to accelerate implementation, exceed targets and fully-disburse the Loan; 
- 26 -
Page  30
(iii) The Management Information System (MIS) experienced technical issues.  TU staff 
responded by developing a parallel, bypass system incompatible with the original.  Several plans 
to resolve the situation, including through the purchase of new equipment, were ineffective.  The 
Bank recommended that the system be completely re-tooled to generate a broader range of data 
needs; upgraded to include more sophisticated forms of monitoring, evaluation and control; and 
that the parallel sub-systems be abandoned.  The system was subsequently upgraded at the central 
level with all data re-conformed into a more agile, rational format  All MIS data is now shared at 
regular intervals with the Bank Recife Office and with Headquarters and further improvements 
have been made under the new project.
Mid-term Review:
A diverse team of Bank/FAO specialists experienced in CDD conducted a Mid-term Review of 
the project in February 2000.  The mission held discussions with all relevant State officials and 
technical personnel, and visited 24 rural municipalities to meet with municipal and community 
leaders, NGOs and beneficiaries, and to participate in the meetings of FUMAC and FUMAC-P 
Councils.  The project was judged to be making good progress and being executed in 
conformance with the Loan Agreement and Project Operational Manual.  A series of issues were 
defined and actions agreed by the Bank mission with the State Technical Unit.  These actions are 
spelled out in detail in the mission Aide Memoire and PSR, covering targeting effectiveness, 
graduation, Municipal Council performance, standardized subproject designs, procurement, 
technical assistance, reform of the state, MIS performance, environment, and project 
administration and disbursements. The PSR archive shows careful follow-up by the project Task 
Manager and Northeast Team on compliance with all actions required by the MTR mission to 
further improve project execution. 
7.3
Overall Bank performance:
Rated Satisfactory
Two successive QAG reviews of project supervision quality under the Rio Grande do Norte 
project resulted in best practice citations. The Rural Poverty Alleviation Program of eight projects 
received a LAC Performance Award and a Social Development Award for Excellence in Project 
Quality in 2000, while the project’s community cost-sharing requirements were cited as best 
practice by a Bank procurement audit team, for fostering cost-effective and efficient procurement.  
Rio Grande do Norte has hosted numerous visits from foreign delegations interested in CDD and 
in successful experiences with community exporting, high quality Councils, regional development 
and collaboration with NGOs.  
Borrower
7.4
Preparation:
Project preparation was straightforward and productive due to the support of the State 
authorities, especially the Secretariat of Social Action (SEAS), lead agency for the project, and 
the Technical Unit.  There was broad recognition that the R-NRDP had successfully changed the 
way rural development was done, with positive results in terms of cost-effectiveness, timeliness 
and poverty impact on the ground.
- 27 -
Page  31
7.5
Government implementation performance:
The State Government's primary, direct involvement was through its cost-sharing/counterpart 
funding role, the approval role of the State Rural Development Council (SRDC), and indirectly, 
through the cordination and supervison/monitoring role of the Technical Unit. Counterpart 
funding encountered delays stemming from the state's tight state fiscal situation and policies.  
Similarly, the need for all subprojects to receive SRDC approval hindered agile processing of 
proposals.  Nevertheless, the state was committed to the project and the Loan was 
fully-disbursed.  
7.6
Implementing Agency:
The project Technical Unit performed very well given structural constraints, bureaucracy and lack 
of autonomy resulting from its direct administrative linkage to the State Government.  
Implementation suffered in the first two years, especially in delays between communities’ 
submission of proposals and deposit of funds in their bank accounts. Only in the last year of the 
project was the Bank able to successfully negotiate changes in the TU’s structure to give it 
greater administrative and financial autonomy and only in September 2002, by a special act of the 
State, was an autonomous Administrative Unit installed with managerial authority to receive 
project funds by virtue of the TU’s new status as a Budget Unit. 
The Technical Unit is well-managed in a participatory and democratic manner, with its technical 
staff having the tools to comply with the terms of the project Operational Manual (after 
difficulties in the initial years).  Technical and administrative staff number only 37, but are 
generally well-qualified.  Several IICA representatives are contracted year-round to provide 
guidance to the TU.  The TU has no regional offices.  Rio Grande do Norte is small (only 52,000 
km2) and project technical staff are able to supervise from Headquarters in Natal, being provided 
with adequate vehicles (rented) to do this effectively.  
An important factor in effective supervision of the project by the TU – and a long-standing feature 
of the rural poverty program in this state - has been its relationship with organized civil society, 
which collaborates directly in project implementation, working with the communities, their 
associations and the Councils. In the Seridó Region for example, which covers some 28 
municipalities, the Church-based SEAPAC delivers technical assistance to beneficiaries and 
Councils.  FETARN, through its local unions, mobilizes and organizes communities; monitors 
progress across all participating municipalities; carried out the project baseline study; and also 
participated in project evaluation.  NGOs such as AACC and World Vision provide agronomic 
and marketing assistance to communities, including for important commercial products such as 
melons and cashew exported to Europe.
  
The state-level Rural Development Council, which gives 
final approval to all subproject proposals, also includes civil society representatives.
7.7
Overall Borrower performance:
Rated Satisfactory
8. 
Lessons Learned
Project lessons reinforce and validate conclusions from the R-NRDP, and from other state 
projects under the RPAP.
- 28 -
Page  32
Poor rural communities are able to decide their priorities
, working through their Councils, and 
prepare, execute, operate and maintain their investments with funds transferred directly to the 
association bank account.  Delinquency rates are negligible.  Far more than the sum of its 
investments, this method of CDD creates community skills and capacity through the 
decision-making process and investment cycle.  These skills can be applied to many other 
activities which extend, deepen and consolidate community development.  
This process entails a longer-term commitment to reap the full benefits
.  This project pointed 
up the importance of having an integrated vision of local development, valuing local knowledge, 
sustaining commitment to poor communities over time and building credibility.
Decentralization
 of fiscal and investment decision-making and implementation to the state and 
local levels including community organizations, improves administrative efficiency and achieves 
better results.  Collaboration between civil society and public/private bodies at the local level has 
many benefits.  Participatory, community-driven approaches reinforce accountability for project 
performance by reducing the “distance” between decision-makers and beneficiaries who, at key 
points in the subproject cycle/institutional scheme, have become synonymous.
Institutional ingredients for success
 include the political, economic and social context; social 
organization and management; the formation of local leadership with stable residence in the area; 
and popular participation in local development. 
Poverty targeting mechanisms 
that are simple, verifiable and based on objective criteria promote 
transparency, minimize political interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project 
funds reach the poorest.
Quality supervision
 which includes local entities closest to the communities, is indispensable.  
Many FUMAC Councils could take on more responsibility for supervision, given appropriate 
training, TA and information technology.  The Bank’s Recife Office has provided essential, 
on-the-spot support for project coordination, supervision, procurement reviews and field visits in 
the Northeast region, meshing Bank support effectively with the decentralized structure of the 
program itself.
Systematic monitoring and evaluation
 
supports project analysis, and improves targeting and 
efficiency.  The RPAP project demonstrated that further refinement and strengthening of the MIS 
would be beneficial, introducing real time monitoring of the full project cycle and a more 
comprehensive impact evaluation component.  This has been introduced in the new project.
Technical assistance
 of diverse type and delivery is a crucial ingredient for CDD projects, and 
especially for productive subprojects, to maximize impact and sustainability.  Rio Grande do 
Norte remains an effective model for the Northeast and Brazil in demonstrating how the 
collaboration of NGOs, rural labor unions, the Church and other entities in TA provision, can 
enhance project preparation and execution.  
- 29 -
Page  33
Standardized subproject documents, technical designs/parameters and unit costs
, periodically 
reviewed, updated and expanded, have a proven track record in simplifying subproject preparation 
and evaluation, improving subproject quality, facilitating procurement and reducing cost, 
preventing over-design, protecting the environment, and promoting the participation of the 
poorest communities.
 
Environmental protection mechanisms
 are important and relevant even for small-scale 
investments.  The rural environment can be protected under CDD in the Northeast region through 
standardized subproject designs, environmental screening checklists, partnerships with 
environmental agencies/NGOs, TA and training to the Councils and communities, in-house 
environmental expertise in the TU, and a strategy for building a culture of environmental 
awareness.  
Checks and balances
, well-defined and widely-disseminated, can support proper targeting and 
use of resources, and strengthen and institutionalize transparency.  The practical utility of rules 
and procedures, established in an Operational Manual and including guidelines for performance 
incentives and penalties, is now well-established.
Municipal Councils can play a broader role in local planning,
 by seeking integration with local 
governments, and as an information resource/clearing house for member associations regarding 
available programs and sources of grant and credit financing.  More advanced Councils can (and 
many do) insert themselves into municipal planning and budgeting processes and programs, and 
there is much potential for regional development with consorcia of Councils at the crux.  
The FUMAC and FUMAC-P mechanisms
 have proven advantages with respect to targeting, 
sustainability, cost-effectiveness and social capital formation in poor rural communities.  PAC 
should be minimized.  
Equitable graduation
 of communities who have accumulated sufficient assets (Bank and 
non-Bank financed) and organizational capacity to access mainstream financing and other 
services, can and should be an important product of a more integrated approach to Municipal 
Council roles/activities under new projects.   
Productive subprojects
 require rigorous selection, preparation, TA and supervision.  Under the 
new rural poverty program, they are subject to a "one-time" rule under which the Bank will 
facilitate communities' transition to alternative sources of funding including formal credit.  Field 
observation verifies that more rapid success is likely in productive activities with which 
communities already have some knowledge/familiarity.  
Cost recovery
 mechanisms devised by the communities themselves under this project, converted 
productive subprojects in very poor communities from a “seed capital” mode to a “community 
fund” and/or "revolving fund" mode for new community investments not usually financed by  rural 
financial institutions.  This interesting experience demonstrates the potential for independent 
community replication of investment activities and more rapid development, while boosting 
sustainability.
- 30 -
Page  34
9. 
Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's comments on the Bank's draft ICR are as follows:
- 31 -
Page  35
- 32 -
Page  36
(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not obtained
10. 
Additional Information
- 33 -
Page  37
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
No Log Frame Matrix was prepared for this project.  
Project Components and Activities
Unit
Appraisal Estimate
Actual
A. Community Subprojects
Subprojects implemented
No.
1280
1809
- Infrastructure
No.
460
1063
- Social
No.
150
51
- Productive
No.
570
695
Beneficiaries
- Total
Families 
104,000
96,968
- Total
People
520,000
388,000
Community associations
No. (cum)
640
1400
Municipalities assisted
No. (cum)
150
137
Municipal Councils
- FUMAC
No. (cum)
62
93
- FUMAC-P
No. (cum)
10
8
B.  Institutional Development
Preparation of annual program of TA/training
- Technical Unit
No.
4
4
- Municipal Councils
No. 
232
250
Mobilization:
- Community associations
Seminars
90
106
- Local Leaders (for formation FUMAC/P Councils)
Seminars
55
62
- FUMAC-P Councils
Seminars
15
13
- Technical Staff
Seminars
16
18
Training Courses offered:
- Beneficiary associations
No.
35
100
- All Municipal Councils
  No.
22
121
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils
No.
13
44
- PCU Staff
No.
21
28
Technical Assistance provided:
- for subproject implementation (Tech. Transfer)
Courses
80
85
- to Municipal Councils
Courses
82
91
- to PCU staff
Courses
32
36
C.  Project Admin., Monitoring, Evaluation
Supervision:
- Subprojects in  implementation
No. visits
2,580
5427
- Municipal Councils
No. visits
477
808
- Completed subprojects
na
na
na
Annual operating plans (POA)
- for FUMAC-P
No.
40
32
- PCU (Project POA)
No.
4
4
Standard designs
- Preparation
No.
6
13
- Review and Updating
No.
na
8
Monitoring reports (to Bank)
- Monthly disbursement summaries, MIS updates
No.
48
32
- Annual, semi-annual reports
No.
8
8
- External audits (project accounts)
No.
4
4
Evaluation studies
- Physical performance reviews
No.
4
4
- Mid-term Review
No.
1
1
- Impact evaluation:
(i)  Baseline
No.
1
1
(iii) Final
No.
1
Postponed to 
mid-2003 (text)
(iv) Graduation study
No.
1
Postponed to PCPR 
II (text)
- 34 -
Page  38
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
Project Component
Appraisal Estimate 
US$ million
Actual/Latest Est.
US$ million
Percentage of 
Appraisal
Community subprojects
28.4
26.6
94.0
of which:
- FUMAC
21.3
23.1
108.0
- FUMAC-P
4.3
2.1
49.0
- PAC
2.8
1.4
50.0
Institutional Development 
(TA and Training)
1.6
3.6
225.0
Project Administration, 
Monitoring, Evaluation and 
Supervision
1.6
1.1
62.5
Physical/Price 
Contingencies
0.4
-
-
Total: 
32.0
31.3
98.0
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (US$million)
 
Estimate at Appraisal
 
Actual at Closing
 
Category
 
NCB
 
Other
 
Total Cost
 
NCB
 
Other
 
Total Cost
 
Community 
Subprojects
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Small Works 
(<US$50,000) *
 
 
14.4
 
(10.7)
 
14.4
 
(10.7)
 
 
17.4
 
17.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Goods & 
Materials 
(<US$50,000) *
 
 
11.6
 
(8.6)
 
11.6
 
(8.6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Small Works 
(>US$100,000)
 
1.4
 
(1.1)
 
 
1.4
 
(1.1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Small Works 
(>US$50,000) 
**
 
 
0.8
 
(0.6)
 
0.8
 
(0.6)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Goods & 
Materials 
(>US$50,000) 
**
 
 
0.7
 
(0.5)
 
0.7
 
(0.5)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consultin
g 
Services
 
 
2.3
 
(2.3)
 
2.3
 
(2.3)
 
 
3.6
 
3.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project 
Administration
 
 
0.8
 
(0.8)
 
0.8
 
(0.8)
 
 
1.0
 
1.0
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOTAL:
 
1.4
 
(1.1)
 
30.6
 
(22.9)
 
32.0
 
(24.0)
 
 
31.3
 
31.3
 
                   
Source:  Project Technical Unit  * Direct contracting   **Shopping
 
- 35 -
Page  39
Project Financing by Component and Source (US$ million)
Component
Total
Cost
(Estim.)
IBRD
State 
Govt. & 
Municips
.
Benefics
Total 
Cost
(Actual
)
IBRD
State Govt. 
& 
Municipals.
Benefics
A. Community 
Subprojects
28.4
21.2
4.3
2.9
26.6
20.0
4.0
2.7
- FUMAC
21.3
15.9
3.2
2.2
23.1
17.3
3.5
2.3
- FUMAC-P
4.3
3.2
0.7
0.4
2.1
1.6
0.3
0.3
- PAC
2.8
2.1
0.4
0.3
1.4
1.1
0.2
0.1
B. Institutional 
Development
1.6
1.6
0.0
0.0
3.6
3.6
-
-
C. Project 
Administration, 
Monitoring, 
Evaluation & 
Supervision
1.6
0.9
0.7
0.0
1.1
0.4
0.6
-
Physical 
Contingencies
0.3
0.2
0.1
0.0
-
-
-
-
Price 
Contingencies
0.1
0.1
0.0
0.0
-
-
-
-
Total Project 
Cost:
32.0
24.0
5.1
2.9
31.3
24.0
4.6
2.7
- 36 -
Page  40
Annex 3.  Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR did not include an economic or financial rate of return for the project.  Rather, an 
analysis was provided for illustrative purposes, of the kinds of benefits achieved under the 
R-NRDP for the most common types of investments.  Similar benefits were expected, on a larger 
scale, from the RPAP, including Rio Grande do Norte. Subprojects financed by the RPAP did not 
differ significantly in type from the R-NRDP.  A similar analysis has therefore been done of the 
program-wide investments under the RPAP for cost effectiveness and sustainability, and the 
financial viability of productive subprojects. 
Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure and Social Subprojects
About 77% of subproject investments under the RPAP were for infrastructure, while social 
subprojects comprised less than 3 percent.  Most infrastructure subprojects fell under the rubric of 
core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social investments) which, numerous studies 
demonstrate, provide benefits that justify their universal provision.* The experience of the 
R-NRDP and RPAP projects has shown that the CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service 
delivery targeted to the poorest can work in a cost effective manner in the Brazilian Northeast.  
Several aspects of project design help to ensure delivery of the least-cost, best alternative: 
(i) 
Standard technical designs (
projetos padrão
) for the most common types of infrastructure 
and social subprojects (including corresponding cost parameters) ensure that community 
associations use least-cost models for subproject implementation; and they decrease search and 
information costs for community associations by providing established patterns of initiating and 
completing a subproject.  Field analysis of  these RPAP investments demonstrates that their 
technical quality is good; 
(ii) 
Delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community associations generates 
cost savings, relative to comparable quality works implemented by public sector agencies.  
Contracting procedures prescribed in the Project Operational Manual require direct, competitive 
contracting for all subprojects: the community association solicits three bids for the subproject 
and chooses the least-cost bid. 
*World Bank: Public Expenditures for Poverty Alleviation in Northeast Brazil: Promoting Growth and Improving Services. Report No. 18700-BR. 
December 1998.
These  characteristics have enhanced subproject cost-effectiveness.  Analysis of a random sample 
of subprojects (including ten categories which collectively represent some 80% of subproject 
types financed) found that costs for RPAP infrastructure and social investments were 30-50% 
cheaper than projects of similar quality, financed by the state.  Evaluation of the RPAP in Rio 
Grande do Norte, Bahia, Ceará, Pernambuco, Piauí and Sergipe examined the quality of the 
materials used, overall finish and of operation of the investments.  In all states surveyed, the 
majority of subprojects were found to be technically satisfactory and of good quality.  
Beneficiaries expressed their satisfaction with subproject quality and regarded more than 90% of 
all investments as being satisfactory overall. 
Experience also shows that the operation and maintenance of infrastructure and social subprojects 
- 37 -
Page  41
has been good, with community associations charging user fees sufficient to operate and maintain 
the investments.  An evaluation study of the Northeast RPAP program, carried out in 2000, 
reviewed a sample of 8,123 subprojects funded by the R-NRDP in 1995 and RPAPs in 1997/98, 
finding that 7,240 of them, or 89%, were fully operational in March 2000.  Furthermore, the same 
study found no substantial difference in sustainability across infrastructure, productive and social 
subprojects.  Of 6,064 infrastructure, 1,820 productive and 239 social community subprojects, 
89%, 87% and 88%, respectively, were fully operational at the time of the study.  
Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects
Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main types of productive subprojects 
analyzed (Table A). Analysis of selected productive subprojects also suggests that the investments 
are financially sustainable (Table B).  Although beneficiary associations have received a one-time 
investment grant from the RPAP, this investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery 
through user fees by the average beneficiary association is generally adequate to cover both O&M 
and replacement of the original investment long before the end of its useful economic life.
For illustrative purposes, 12 productive subprojects representing some of the most typical 
productive investments carried out under the RPAPs, were selected for financial analysis.  
Activity models were constructed for them, based on field interviews with subproject managers   
conducted during evaluation, supervision and project preparation missions, and consultation of 
standard project designs (
projetos padrão
) prepared by the State Technical Units. The subprojects 
analyzed are as follows:
Manioc Mill: 
 Middle-size construction equipped with mill, press, oven and other equipment 
required to process cassava into flour. Investments include a pack animal to transport produce to 
and from the plant. The mill serves a local community of some 30 to 40 farming families. The 
plant operates around 100 days per year processing some 120 tons of cassava into approximately 
30 tons of  
farinha
 and 4.8 tons of starch  employing one person to operate the plant during those 
days.  Farmers are charged a users’ fee of 15 percent of output. Association members normally 
pay a smaller fee than non-members.
Communal Tractor:
 Tractor of 75 HP, plus trailer, grain husker, grader and other equipment, 
including a garage. The tractor benefits an association of some 65 farming families. The tractor 
works for members and non-members providing land preparation, grain shelling and transport 
services. It works approximately 1,700 hour per year serving some 300 ha. User fees for members 
are smaller than prices charged by private tractor owners and fees charged to non-members. The 
subproject employs a full-time driver/operator hired by the association.
Small Irrigation 1:
 Purchase of 18 localized irrigation kits for 38 families to pump water to 
irrigate a total of some 29 ha (0.8 ha per family). The irrigation is accompanied by the 
introduction of a new technical package and two new cash crops, 
chuchu
 and 
quiabo
 (two 
high-priced Brazilian vegetables with good local markets), which replace the existing traditional 
cultivation of corn, beans and bananas, providing a very good return.
- 38 -
Page  42
Small Irrigation 2:
  Sprinkler irrigation system to irrigate 10 ha of previously uncultivated land 
with water pumped from a permanent water source, benefiting 10 farming families. Most of the 
irrigated land is used for traditional subsistence crops (corn and beans), although a cash crop 
(watermelon) is planted on one-third of the new area. Two crops are obtained per year.
Goat Production
. Production of goats by a group of about 30 farmers, with an investment 
consisting of 120 breeding females and 4 breeding males. A pen, a fence and other facilities are 
constructed and 85 ha of improved pastures are installed. Income is derived from the sale (or 
domestic consumption) of incremental animals and the sale (or domestic consumption) of milk. 
Animal Feed Production Equipment:
 Grinding machine and complementary equipment to 
produce animal feed from crop residuals, together with a small structure to shelter the machine. 
Farmers pay a small amount (R$ 1.50) per hour to use the machine. From these payments, 
electricity and maintenance costs are covered and a small fund is formed. The machine works 
approximately six months per year. Raw materials and labor to operate the machine are supplied 
by users. The organization and supervision of machine use is freely supplied by association 
leaders.
Honey Production:
 Purchase of 340 beehives plus 2 decanters, 2 centrifuges and other apiculture 
and honey processing equipment to benefit an association of some 23 members with no previous 
apiculture experience. Training is provided along with the equipment. The beehives, located in 8 
sites, are maintained by association members. They yield an annual output of some 8,200 kg of 
honey which is sold wholesale. 
Local Bakery
. Middle-size construction (120 sq. m) equipped with a gas oven and other baking 
facilities to produce various types of bread, with an average output of 130 kg of bread per day. 
Employs a master baker and two full-time workers. Bread is sold locally in the surrounding 
communities.
Fish Farm:
 Five fish ponds of 2,200 m2 each, with a capacity for 8,500 Tilapia fish each. Ponds 
are rotated, with 4 ponds being continuously used at a time. Two harvests are collected per pond 
in a year, with a total output of 24,000 kg. of fish. Output is sold locally to middle-men. One 
person is employed half-time to feed the fish and another is employed half-time as watchman. 
Part-time labor is used to harvest the fish. 
Cashew Processing Plant:
 Middle-size plant plus equipment to process cashew nuts. Some 200 
tons of cashew nuts are processed annually into 46 tons of roasted and packed cashew almonds, 
which are then sold wholesale. Plant operates for ten months of the year, employing around 6 
operators. Cashew nuts are bought from surrounding farmers serving some 150 farmers with 1 to 
5 ha of cashew trees each.
Jam Production Plant: 
Plant to process various local fruits into different types of jams and other 
confectionery products, producing an average of 175 kg per day of these products. Fruit and 
other inputs are bought by the plant. Products are sold retail locally and also wholesale to 
- 39 -
Page  43
retailers. Employs a plant manager and three permanent workers.
Small Dairy Plant:
 Middle-size plant (155 sq. m) equipped with a pasteurization kit, cooling 
chamber and other facilities to pasteurize milk, with a capacity of 1,200 liters per day. The plant is 
supplied by around 400 cows with an average daily output of 3 liters per cow belonging to some 
60 dairy farmers within a radius of 6 km. Employs a plant manager and 4 permanent workers. 
The results of the financial analysis are summarized in Table A.
Table A: Results of the Financial Analysis of Selected Subprojects
Type of Activity
Investment
(R$)
IRR
(%)
NPV
(at 10%)
Net 
Annual 
Income
(R$)
Years to 
Recover 
the 
Capital 
Invested
Manioc Mill
18,450
15.8
5,377
3,970
5.6
Communal Tractor
39,752
37.6
35,141
18,075
2.4
Small Irrigation 1
44,054
>50
327,366
90,781
0,9
Small Irrigation 2
28,311
28.1
23,573
15,238
3.3
Goat Production
43,346
16.5
16,925
12,180
5.8
Feed Production Equipment
6,730
15.4
1,831
1,149
5.9
Honey Production
26,102
16.8
9,112
7,252
5.5
Local Bakery
43,352
35.0
56,868
29,575
2.8
Fish Farm
46,104
15.6
13,739
13,162
5.6
Cashew Processing Plant
64,964
>50
288,790
72,195
1.1
Jam Production Plant
41,123
41.7
69,062
35,008
2.4
Small Dairy Plant
62,583
19.7
30,223
34,591
4.7
The investment cost of the subprojects ranges from around R$7,000 to R$65,000, which is typical 
for RPAP productive investments. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return, some 
of them being very high. Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all cases and 
less than 3.5 in half of the cases. The net incremental annual income or value-added generated by 
the subprojects (at full development) ranges from R$1,149 for the feed preparation equipment to 
R$90,781 in the case of one of the irrigation subprojects, with an average value of around 
R$28,000 for an average investment of around R$ 39,000.* 
 
The IRRs of the subprojects 
compare favorably with the real cost of borrowing to the Brazilian Government, which is of the 
order of 11 to 12 percent.** The IRRs also compare favorably with the interest rates that would 
have to be paid in concessionary rural credit programs, like those of the 
Banco do Nordeste
 and 
Banco do Brasil
.   Only two subprojects --the cashew processing plant and one of the irrigation 
subprojects -- would be able to pay the high interest rates charged by commercial banks for term 
lending.
*  Simple averages
**  Measured by the difference between the SELIC rate and inflation rate.
Three categories of projects can be identified in the above illustrative sample: 
- 40 -
Page  44
(a)   Communal processing equipment or livestock activities which are simple to operate and 
well-known to farmers, meet community-wide needs, and directly benefit a majority of families in 
the community.  The manioc mill, communal tractor, feed production equipment and goat 
production subprojects fall into this category.   The results summarized in Table A illustrate that 
these types of investments can be profitable.  Their financial returns, however, are not high 
because benefits are passed on to farmers in the form of moderate user fees or because the activity 
in question is intrinsically not very profitable as in the case of small-scale goat rearing. These 
subprojects have the advantage of building on activities familiar to farmers, and have therefore 
little training requirements and simple management needs.  They also have low marketing 
requirements since the community itself is the market for the service, and the outputs produced 
with the help of the service normally have regular marketing channels or are self-consumed;
(b)  Subprojects promoting on- or off-farm productive activities which generate full time 
employment and considerable income for a particular group of farmers in the community.  The 
small irrigation subprojects and the honey production, jam production, fish farm and bakery 
subprojects belong in this category. New activities producing a final consumption good to be sold 
in markets outside the community, exemplified by the honey production, fish farming and jam 
production subprojects, can be profitable and offer a source of income and employment to some 
members of the community; however, these subprojects tend to be demanding in terms of 
marketing and managerial skills.* These subprojects are normally part of industries where the 
entry cost is low and competition high, leaving small operating margins.   The lack of working 
capital and the difficulty to establish a brand name to differentiate the product and place it in the 
best-paying markets are two common constraints;
*  
Other popular subprojects in this category are clothes-making and the production of various artisanal goods such as embroideries.
Local bakeries, which are popular subprojects in some states, have few training and marketing 
requirements, and are similar to cassava mills or communal tractors to the extent that they cater to 
local need and therefore have a local market, although in this case the market is for a final good 
rather than a productive service, but they only offer employment and income to a reduced number 
of community members.  The irrigation subprojects illustrate well that, whenever possible, 
irrigation together with the introduction of cash crops and an improved technical package is a 
profitable and cost-effective way of increasing income and employment in the semi-arid areas of 
the Brazilian Northeast, and can be successfully operated by local farmers on a very small scale.  
The contrast between the very high returns to investment of the first subproject, where new cash 
crops and technology were introduced alongside irrigation, and the moderately high ones of the 
second subproject, highlights the impact of profiting from the availability of irrigation water by 
introducing wider changes in the cropping system;
(iii)  Processing plants requiring comparatively higher capital investment, which operate on a scale 
bigger than the communal equipment included in the first category, benefiting also farmers outside 
the local community and hence with impact at a more regional level. The dairy and cashew 
processing plants exemplify this type of subproject.
To examine the financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was carried out of the 
- 41 -
Page  45
illustrative activity models. Three scenarios were considered.  In the first, production was 
assumed to be 20% below the base case, because of, say, marketing problems.  A 20% percent 
decrease in output caused a 20% decrease in revenue, but this was, to some extent, matched by a 
reduction in the use of inputs and hence in variable costs.  In the second scenario, the price 
decreased 20% and revenue also decreased by the same proportion without any compensating 
element.  Finally, in the third scenario, an increase of 20% in the price of variable costs was 
assumed. The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in Table B.
Table B: Results of the Sensitivity Analysis
Type of Subproject
Base Case
Scenario 1
- 20% output
Scenario 2
- 20% price
Scenario 3
+ 20% costs
Manioc Mill
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
15.8
5,377
11.5
1,385
10.1
132
14.4
4,124
Communal Tractor 
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
37.6
35,141
17.2
10,836
< 0
-23,602
16.8
10,221
Small Irrigation 1
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
>50
327,366
>50
163,375
39.4
77,015
>50
154,646
Small Irrigation 2
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
28.1
23,573
7.4
-2,965
4.6
-6,057
13.0
3,546
Goat Production
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
16.5
16,925
12.8
7,097
11.5
3,847
15.2
13,395
Feed Production Equipment
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
15.4
1,831
11.2
397
10.2
62
14.4
1,496
Honey Production
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
16.8
9.112
10.0
42
7.2
-3,635
11.6
2,162
Local Bakery
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
35.0
56,868
20.1
22,451
< 0
-21,559
15.8
12,859
Fish Farm
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
15.6
13,739
9.3
-1,732
< 0
-39,886
< 0
-26,024
Cashew Processing Plant
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
>50
288,790
> 50
210,642
48.3
132,561
>50
201,015
Jam Production Plant
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
41.7
69,062
24.0
29,690
< 0
-33,720
12.7
5,652
Small Dairy Plant
IRR (%)
NPV (R$)
19.7
30,223
2.0
-23,493
n.d. (*)
-138,697
n.d. (*)
-84,981
(*) IRR not defined; net benefits are negative all years.
Some subprojects are more sensitive than others to changing market conditions. In general, 
- 42 -
Page  46
subprojects which are highly dependent on purchased inputs, like the communal tractor, the 
bakery, the fish farm, the jam production plant and the dairy plant, are more sensitive to 
deteriorating market conditions than those with minor dependence on purchased inputs, e.g., the 
manioc mill, goat production, feed preparation equipment and honey production subprojects.   In 
all cases, the worst scenario is that of a decrease in prices (scenario 2). The second worst scenario 
depends on the type of subproject; for subprojects highly dependent on purchased inputs, it is the 
increase in variable production costs (scenario 3), while for those with little dependence on 
purchased inputs, it is the fall in output (scenario 1).
To complete the financial analysis of productive subprojects, a weighted average of the IRRs of 
the activity models included in the sample was calculated. The shares of each of the twelve types 
of illustrative models (which were taken to represent other, similar ones) in the total amount 
invested in community subprojects in the RPAP program until the end of April 2001 were used as 
weights.* The resulting average IRR is 30.2%. This figure gives an indication of the overall 
profitability of the productive subprojects normally financed under the RPAP. 
* 
IRR of the “Small Irrigation 1” and “Cashew Processing Plant” subprojects, which is higher than 50%, was taken to be equal  to 50% in the 
computation of the weighted average.
Fiscal Impact:  
Evaluations in the states of Bahia, Ceará and Sergipe have indicated that subproject investments 
make a significant fiscal contribution through cost savings to state and municipal governments and 
revenues from sales tax.  Given the large numbers of beneficiaries of water supply and rural 
electrification subprojects in Rio Grande do Norte, the fiscal impact was almost certainly 
substantial, although no direct data is available. However, extrapolating from NRDP and 
R-NRDP data, benefits are  very conservatively estimated at about R$1.8 million for a year of 
“normal” rainfall, and around R$4.0 million in a drought year for the 695 water supply 
subprojects implemented under the RPAP.
 
These benefits are, in the case of water subprojects, 
derived from the need for fewer water trucks in time of drought and reduced public health costs 
from reliable, clean water supply.  In the case of rural electrification, the main fiscal impact comes 
from a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances when electricity becomes 
available, increasing the ICMS revenue to municipalities.*  Cost savings also derive from the 
community-driven design of the project; subprojects implemented by communities, directly or 
contracted, were 30-50% less than prices paid by public authorities for works of similar type and 
quality.  
*  ICMS is collected by the state and all municipalities receive 25% of collections regardless of where it is collected.
Aggregate Impact of the RPAP Program on Employment, Income and Cultivated Area
The July 2000 impact evaluation study carried out of the RPAPs in eight Northeastern States 
including Rio Grande do Norte, provided an estimate of the aggregate impact on employment, 
income and cultivated area of the infrastructure, productive and social subprojects included in the 
program. The study, based on a sample from the most representative types of subprojects in each 
of the States, with an error of less than 20%, provides summary figures for incremental jobs 
created, incremental income generated and incremental number of hectares cultivated per unit 
invested in productive subprojects. 
- 43 -
Page  47
Total investment in community subprojects:
US$362.0 million
Incremental employment created:
40,000 jobs
Incremental net annual income/savings generated:
US$80.0 million
Incremental cropped area:
40,000 hectares
These estimates are subject to several caveats, including that the sample’s level of significance is 
not large, and that the estimates reflect both direct impact of the investments on employment, 
income and cultivated land as well as some indirect impacts, e.g., expansion of cultivated area, 
employment and income derived from the introduction of a tractor or a 
casa de farinha 
in a 
certain community. The above figures should thus be viewed as indicative of the magnitude of 
benefits involved.  Finally, Table C shows a variety of socio-economic benefits for main 
subproject types implemented under the RPAP
.
Table C:  Socio-Economic Benefits of Subprojects by Main Subproject Type
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cost Effectiveness
Project Type
Total No. of 
Subprojects 
Completed*
No. of 
Benefic. 
Families per 
Subproject
Cost per 
Sub-
project 
(US$)
Net No. of 
Jobs Created 
per 
Subproject**
Net Annual 
Incremental 
Income/savings 
per Subproject
(US$)
Incremental 
Crop Area 
Cultivated 
per 
Subproject 
(hectares)
***
Economic 
Internal 
Rate of 
Return
(%)
Total 
Investment 
per 
Beneficiary 
Family
(US$)
Total 
Investment 
per Job 
Created 
(US$)
Economic 
Benefit-
Cost 
Ratio
****
Infrastructure:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rural water supply
4,025
71
30,149
-
12,369
1.4
-
425
-
-
Rural electrification
4,080
49
22,400
-
1,942
1.6
-
457
-
-
Small bridges
538
139
26,350
-
1,040
2.3
-
190
-
-
Community 
telephones
435
140
22,944
-
422
0
-
164
-
-
Productive:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manioc mills
412
68
18,451
10.8
17,148
16.3
>30
271
1,708
>2.0
Community Tractors
573
95
30,870
29.3
28,137
22.6
>30
325
1,054
>2.0
Small-scale livestock 
110
40
16,354
2.5
6,214
2.8
>30
409
6,542
>2.0
Small-scale irrigation
146
36
25,158
25.4
23,800
37.9
>30
699
990
>2.0
Social:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Road paving/rehab.
675
82
31,930
-
242
1.7
-
389
-
-
Sanitation systems
171
72
29,727
-
0
0
-
413
-
-
*  As of March 2000. By January 2001, some 19,000 subprojects had been completed under the RPAP. Subproject distribution did not vary greatly.
** Many jobs created by the infrastructure and social subprojects come from additional economic activities made possible by the investments, butnot directly 
involved with theproject after its construction/establishment.
*** The incremental crop areas associated with infrastructure and social subprojects come from the cultivation of additional areas, made possible by the
 
projects.
**** Obtained by using a real rate of 10% for the opportunity cost of capital.
- 44 -
Page  48
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle
Performance Rating
 No. of Persons and Specialty
 (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
Month/Year
  Count 
    Specialty
Implementation
Progress
Development
Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/96
2
1
1
2
2
Ag. Economist
Anthropologist
Engineer
Ag. Specialist
Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/96
2
2
2
1
1
1
Ag. Economist
Economist
Ag. Specialist
Sociologist
Rural Devt. Specialist
Anthropologist
Supervision
05/15/1997
-
Update
S
S
10/17/1997
1
Ag. Econ (1)
S
S
07/31/1998
1
Ag. Econ (1)
S
S
05/14/1999
1
Ag Econ (1)
S
S
12/02/1999
2
Ag. Econ (1); Economist (1)
S
S
02/15/2000
10
Econ (3); Agric'st (2); Agric 
Econ (2); Anthrop (1); Project 
Analyst (1); Staff Asst. (1)
S
S
08/2000
1
Agric Economist (1)
S
S
02/2001
2
Ag. Econ (1); Team Leader (1)
S
S
10/03/2001
1
Ag Economist (1)
S
HS
ICR
05/2002
3
Ag. Econ., Fin. Specialist, 
Anthropologist
S
S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle
Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks
US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
33.9
67.9
Appraisal/Negotiation
13.6
25.1
Supervision
86.4
181.4
ICR
3.0
7.0
Total 
136.9
281.4
- 45 -
Page  49
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
 Rating
Macro policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Sector Policies
H
SU
M
N
NA
Physical
H
SU
M
N
NA
Financial
H
SU
M
N
NA
Institutional Development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Environmental
H
SU
M
N
NA
Social
Poverty Reduction
H
SU
M
N
NA
Gender
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
Private sector development
H
SU
M
N
NA
Public sector management
H
SU
M
N
NA
Other (Please specify)
H
SU
M
N
NA
- 46 -
Page  50
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(
HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance
Rating
Lending
HS
S
U
HU
Supervision
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
6.2  Borrower performance
Rating
Preparation
HS
S
U
HU
Government implementation performance
HS
S
U
HU
Implementation agency performance
HS
S
U
HU
Overall
HS
S
U
HU
- 47 -
Page  51
Annex 7. 
List of Supporting Documents
Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government 
Performance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil
: van Zyl, Sonn and Costa, July 2000.
An Assessment of Community Participation
: A. Costa, FAO, 1999.
Relatório da Missão aos Estados de Alagoas, Rio Grande do Norte e Sergipe:
 A. Costa, FAO, 
2001.
A Experiencia do PCPR no Rio Grande do Norte: Relatorio de Implementação (1997-2002)
: 
IICA, November 2002. 
O Processo da Implementação do PCPR/RN 1997-2000:
 IICA, 2001
Aide Memoire and PSR, Mid-term Review, RPAP - Rio Grande do Norte, 2000.
Project Supervision Reports
Project Audit Reports
- 48 -
Page  52
- 49 -
