TO BE HUETLT-CJS
Document of                                           ,L
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1375
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TANZANIA: PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 1063-TA)
December 1, 1976
Operations Evaluation Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TANZANIA: PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 1063-TA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Loan Data
Highlights
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.  Introduction                                                  1
II.  Background                                                    1  -  2
III.  The Program Loan                                              2  -  3
IV.  Transfer of Resources                                         3
V.  Policy Measures Towards Structural Change                     4  -  5
VI.  Conclusions                                                   5  -  6
Annex I: Statement of Development Expenditure as at
May 31, 1975 and Withdrawal from Counter-
part Funds as of August 1975
Attachment A: Completion Report
Introduction                                                A.1
Frogram Data                                                 A.1 - A.2
The Balance of Payments Situation                           A.2
Policy Measures Taken by Government to Cope with the
Balance of Payments Deficit                               A.2 - A.6
Policy Actions and the Economic Outlook                     A.6
Disbursement Procedures                                     A.7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
Attachment B: Progress Report on Policy Understandings
Relating to Program Loan to Tanzania
(Loan No. 1063-TA)
I. Policy Understandings and Measures Adopted by the
Government                                                B.1
A.  Public Investment Policy                                B.1 - B.2
B.  Agricultural Policy                                     B.3 - B.4
C.  Industry and Mining                                     B.4
D.  Private Consumption                                     B.4 - B.5
E.  Government Consumption                                  B.5
F.  Summary                                                 B.5
II.  Policy Actions and the Economic Outlook                     B.5 - B.6
Annex 1 of Attachment B:
Part V - Managing the Medium-Term Balance of Payments
Problem                                         B.7
General                                                B.7
Public Investment Policy                               B.7
Agriculture Policy                                      B.8 - B.9
Industry and Mining                                    B.9 - B.10
Private Consumption                                    B.10
Government Consumption                                 B.10
Summary                                                B.1l



PRC&RAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TANZANIA: PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 1063-TA)
PREFACE
This report presents a performance audit of the Tanzania
Program Loan (Loan 1063-TA). The loan was for US$30 million, it was
approved in December 1974, and was fully disbursed by May 1975.
This audit is based on the Completion Report of December
1975, and the Progress Report of September 1975, (Attachments A and
B) both prepared by the Eastern Africa Regional Office, on the
President's Report and the Loan Agreement and on discussions with
the Bank staff.






PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TANZANIA: PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 1063-TA)
LOAN DATA
Loan Amount                                     US$30 million
Amount Disbursed                                US$30 million
Appraisal Mission                               September 1974
Loan Agreement Date                             December 20, 1974
Effectiveness Date                              January 9, 1975
Original Closing Date                           December 31, 1975
Final Disbursement Date                         May 1975
Supervision Mission                             July-August 1975
Exchange Rates: Tanzanian Shilling (Tsh)
1975 till October 26---------US$1 = Tsh.7.14
after October 27---------SDR1 = Tsh.9.66
1976 (June)------------------US$1 = Tsh.8.33
(on the basis of 1 SDR = US$ 1.158)






PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TANZANIA: PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 1063-TA)
HIGHLIGHTS
This report deals with the program loan made to Tanzania in
December, 1974. Its principal objectives included the provision of
quick disbursing assistance for Tanzania's investment program and to
encourage the government to implement certain policy changes of a
longer term nature.
The audit concludes that progress has been made in initiating
most of the policy understandings as reflected in Attachment B. The
longer term impact on the economy would however require the consistent
pursuit of the agreed policies over a period of time; the extent to
which the loan contributes to these longer term objectives cannot as
yet be assessed.






PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
TANZANIA: PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 1063-TA)
I. Introduction
1.1     This memorandum reports on an audit of performance under Bank
Loan 1063-TA for US$30.0 million, which was signed in December 1974 and
was fully disbursed by May 1975. The audit is based on information
contained in the Program Completion Report (PCR) prepared by Bank staff
in the Eastern Africa Regional Office (Attachment A).  This has been
supplemented by information contained in Bank files and discussions with
Bank staff concerned with various aspects of the project.
1.2     The objectives of the program loan were:
(i) to provide additional quick-disbursing assistance in
order to sustain Tanzania's on-going investment
program, and
(ii) to provide time to enable the Government to implement
agreed policy changes which would enable the country to
move towards overcoming its balance of payments problem
in the medium term.
1.3     The main conclusion of the audit report is that the program loan
ac'hieved the first of these objectives and that it enabled Tanzania to
begin the agreed shift in policy direction necessary to cope with its
balance of payments problem in the medium term. However, the extent to
which the change in policies will achieve its announced objectives can-
not yet be assessed.
II. Background
2.2     Tanzania's main development objectives are eradicating poverty
and equalizing standards of living. The declaration of socialist prin-
ciples in 1967 led to a rapid growth of para-statal organizations and a
heavy concentration of investment on economic and social infrastructure
projects with long gestation periods. This was accompanied by a decline
in private investment, particularly in industry and agriculture. Tax
rates are already high so that any substantial increases in public
savings can only accrue from increased earnings by the para-statal
organizations. So far such an increase has not occurred and the absence
of price and profitability related yardsticks of performance has compli-
cated the problem of improving the efficiency of these organizations.
The slow growth of agricultural exports (representing about 75-80% of
total exports), in combination with rapidly growing imports of capital
equipment and intermediate goods, led to rising balance of payments
deficits from about 1970 onwards.



- 2 -
2.2     Given this economic background, three events occurred in 1973-74
which resulted in a drastic change in the overall balance of payments of
Tanzania. First, import prices in general rose sharply, 15 to 20% over-
all, while the price for imported petroleum tripled. Secondly, the 1973
rains failed in many parts of the country, resulting in a substantial
reduction of food production and the need to import food worth US$100.0
million in 1974; agricultural output was also affected to some extent by
the Government program of consolidating scattered communities into
'ujamaa' villages. (This interrupted the normal farming activity of the
relocated population for at least one season.)  Finally, as a result of
lower agricultural output, export volumes declined and Tanzania did not
benefit from higher export prices. The reduction in available resources
resulting from these developments would have had an adverse impact on
the on-going development programmes had not additional external aid been
forthcoming.
2.3     The crisis of 1974 exhausted Tanzania's foreign exchange reserves
which, despite TMF drawings of US$46.0 million, were reduced by the end
of the year to US$35.0 million, equivalent to only three weeks' import
requirements. The upward trend of import prices, high food imports and
stagnant agricultural exports were expected to continue into 1975. For
1975 the current account deficit gap was estimated at US$222 million4 the
actual deficit turnout to be US$263 million. The Tanzanian authorities
took a number of steps to meet this problem, and the program loan was
provided to avoid a sharp reduction in investment and its consequences
for the economy.
III. The Program Loan
3.1     The Bank approved the program loan of US$30 million to Tanzania
in December 1974. The loan was approved "for the import into Tanzania
by the public and private sectors of essential capital and intermediate
goods and raw materials...and of the implementation by the Borrower of
such parts of its 1974/75 investment program as are to be financed under
the Votes of the Borrower's Development Budget...".
3.2     The loan was designed to provide quick-disbursing external assis-
tance in order to maintain Tanzania's development effort at a reasonable
level and provide the Government time to implement agreed policy changes
to cope with the medium term balance of payments problem. It was submit-
ted under the criteria spelled out in the memorandum to Executive
Directors of December 15, 1970, namely, that Tanzania had an on-going
development program and had taken or intended to take the necessary
financial and economic policy decisions providing a satisfactory basis
for external assistance; that the needed transfer could not be met
through project assistance; and that other external sources were not
available to Tanzania on terms appropriate to its economic conditions.



- 3 -
3.3     The loan of US$30.0 million was to be utilized,
(i)  for financing essential imports of capital equipment,
intermediate goods and raw materials for the public
and private sectors, subject to certain exclusions;
(ii)  a counterpart fund account would be opened, the proceeds
of which would be used to finance expenditures covered
by the 1974-75 development budget for specified sectors,
after review by the Bank.
3.4     A schedule to the loan agreement defined the items eligible for
import under the loan; this covered 14 categories of products, including
vegetable and mineral products, artificial resins, raw materials, wood
and wood articles, textiles, articles of store, base metals, machinery,
vehicles and optical items. No withdrawals were permitted on account of
past expenditure on imports. Another schedule to the loan agreement
specified the categories of development expenditure, in respect of which
counterpart funds could be used. The entire loan was disbursed by the
end of May 1975. The counterpart funds were drawn down in August 1975.
IV. Transfer of Resources
4.1     The first objective, that of a quick transfer of resources, has
been achieved satisfactorily. The Bank's initiative also assisted
Tanzania to mobilize additional bilateral program assistance amounting
to about US$75.0 million during 1975; much of this was obtained through
changing existing bilateral project assistance into program assistance.
4.2     The Loan Agreement had listed the specific parts of Tanzania's
development budget to be financed from the counterpart funds and provided
for the establishment of a special account to which the counterpart funds
were to be credited.  A request from the Ministry of Finance to withdraw
the entire amount was received in July 1975 and the withdrawal authorized
by the Bank in August 1975.
4.3     An annexure to the PFA shows that the withdrawal was for five
Ministries (Agriculture, Commerce and Industries, Communications and Works,
Natural Resources and Tourism, Water Development and Power). The pro-
portion of these Ministries' budgets,financed out of counterpart funds,
varied from about 5 per cent (for Communications and Worka)to about 55
per cent (for Commerce and Industries), the overall percentage for the
five Ministries being about 20 per cent. Given the substantial excess
of the Government's budgeted outlay for development expenditure as
compared to the counterpart funds generated(see Annex I), the condition
regarding use of counterpart funds had no effect on the distribution of
Government expenditure.



- 4 -
V. Policy Measures Towards Structural Change
5.1     The objectives of the Bank loan to Tanzania were to ensure that
"the balance of payments problem was brought under control in the short
to medium run" (PCR, para. 4), and to maintain "the underlying thrust of
the Government's long-run development programme". To the latter end,
certain policy understandings - in areas of export promotion, agriculture
(prices and distribution), Government and private consumption, para-
statals - were agreed upon.
5.2     A "Progress Report on Policy Understandings Relating to Program
Loan to Tanzania (Loan 1063-TA)" was submitted to the Board in September
1975 (Attachment B). Generally speaking, the Government has moved fairly
rapidly to carry out the policies that were agreed upon during appraisal
and negotiation of the loan. It is expected that these initiatives would
help to bring the balance of payments problem under control over the
medium term. The specific measures taken and their likely effects have
been discussed in some detail in the PCR and the Progress Report referred
to above. The significant issues are touched upon below.
5.3     (i) In the field of export promotion, the Government devalued the
Tanzanian shilling by 14 per cent and has taken two institutional steps
to foster export efforts - the setting up of an export promotion bureau
with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and an export department in
the Bank of Tanzania. In addition, it is generally expected that other
policy measures described and analysed below would help to improve the
balance of payments.
5.4     (ii) In the field of agriculture, Government measures which
affected output (and, therefore, imports) were low prices of agricultural
produce and its village development policy under ujamaa. Low prices
provided inadequate incentive for production; the village development
policy, by involving resettlement of people, affected agricultural
production.
5.5     To increase output, producer prices of major agricultural crops
have been substantially raised, as shown below:
Tanzanian Shillings
Crop      Price for 1973/74       Price for 1974/75        Increase
Cotton        1.13/kilo               1.75/kilo               55%
Maize           274/MT                 750/MT                174%
Wheat           557/MT                1000/MT                 80%
Rice           589/MT                  800/MT                 36%
Further increases for producers were announced in September 1975 to apply
to the 1975/76 season.



-5-
5.6     While rains remain the main determinant of agricultural production,
the increase in prices of agricultural produce should help to remove one
constraint on production. Production of maize, a vital crop, increased
in 1974/75, but the cotton crop declined; since cotton is an export crop,
there could be an adverse effect on the balance of payments. In the
absence of an over-all agricultural production index (and a sensitivity
analysis of crop output to other inputs), it is not possible to say how
far the new price policy has worked in stimulating agricultural output
and in its influence on balance of payments; however, it is a step in the
right direction. Government is slowing down the pace of its village
development program, thus trying to balance the long-term objectives with
the immediate requirements of production. Attempts have also been made to
improve distribution of agricultural output through better transport.
5.7     (iii) An improved policy in respect of Government and private
consumption is being implemented. Government consumption has been re-
strained by freezing recurrent expenditure at the level of estimated
actuals for 1974/75. The Government has also acted to restrict private
consumption by curtailing non-food imports, banning import of luxury
items and increasing retail prices of basic food items, in line with
producer price increases. This has resulted in an approximate 76% rise
in the cost of living of low income workers between mid-1974 and mid-1975,
only partly compensated by a rise in wages.
5.8     (iv) Public investment in infrastructure and investment in
industry and mining are closely related in Tanzania because of the promi-
nent role which the Government plays in development. The Government
increased the proportion of capital expenditure on productive investment
in its development program from 23 per cent in 1970/74 to 36 per cent in
1974/75 - at which level it is expected to be maintained in 1975/76.
5.9     The efficiency of para-statal organisations is a key element in
the development of the Tanzanian economy and, given the non-market orienta-
tion of the Tanzanian economy, it is likely to be a difficult problem -
particularly over the medium and longer term, as efficiency yardsticks,
independent of price and profitability criteria, are difficult to evolve
and to maintain. The PCR states that a policy paper has been prepared by
the Government dealing with the question of "control" of the parastatals;
the Bank is also assisting in a cost study of the agro-processing and
marketing parastatals.
VI. Conclusions
6.1     The program loan achieved its immediate objective of providing
additional resources to Tanzania at a time when the deterioration in its
terms of trade and the drought had subjected the economy to considerable
pressure. It thus contributed to the maintenance of investment and growth.
The program loan also enabled the Government to mobilize other program
assistance from bilateral sources. Its major effect was thus in adding



- 6 -
to the total of available resources; it did not have any effect on the
specific composition of imports, nor was it intended to. The arrange-
ments regarding counterpart funds were implemented but, since they were
relatively small by comparison to the development expenditure for which
they were used, they had no practical effect on the distribution of such
expenditure.
6.2     The loan was made in support of agreed policies designed to over-
come Tanzania's balance of payments problem in the medium term, particu-
larly by directing public investment towards the directly productive
sectors of the economy and by taking measures to encourage agricultural
production. These objectives and measures were expressed in somewhat
general terms and hence the degree to which they have been implemented
and the progress which has been made towards the achievement of their
announced objectives are not subject to precise assessment. The full
results of the policies agreed upon in connection with the program loan
will only become apparent in the longer run and much will depend on the
extent and consistency with which they can be carried through over the
next few years.
Operations Evaluation Department



ANNEX 1
PROGRAM LOAN AGREEMENT No. 1063
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT EXPENDITURE AS AT MAY 31, 1975 AND
WITHDRAWAL FROM COUNTERPART FUNDS AS OF AUGUST 1975
(Tanzania Shillings)
Actual          Proposed
Vote No.      Vote Holder        Budgeted for   Expenditure      Withdrawal
1974/75     As at 5/31/75    From Project
Account*
43    Ministry of
Agriculture           319,557,010      72,208,526      56,000,000
47   Ministry of Commerce
and Industries        150,532,090      59,691,504      83,000,000
48    Ministry of Communi-
cations and Works     202,900,040    136,476,885       10,700,000
55    Ministry of Natural
Resources & Tourism    49,669,000      30,965,190       7,000,000
56    Ministry of Water
Development & Power   380,089,020      97,873,367      56,763,000
Total           1,102,747,160    397,215,472      213,463,000
* Proposed by the Government of Tanzania, August 12, 1975. Approval by
Bank conveyed August 25, 1975.






ATTACHMENT A
COMPLETION REPORT
TANZANIA: PROGRAM LOAN (LOAN 1063-TA)
Introduction
1.        This report is based primarily on the findings of three
missions to Tanzania; the program loan appraisal mission in
September 1974, a mission in July/August 1975 to review the imple-
mentation of this program and the program of policy understandings
which laid the basis for the loan, and an appraisal mission for a
second program loan carried out in November 1975.
Program Data
Borrower                     :  United Republic of Tanzania
Loan Amount                  :  US$30.0 million
Date of Loan Agreement       :  December 20, 1974
Effective Date                   January 9, 1975
Terms of Credit                  30 yrs, 10 yrs grace, 8% ir.t.
Amount Disbursed:  Jan 75
Feb 75  :  US$2.3 million
Mar 75  :  US$17.6 million
Apr 75  :  US$10.06 million
May 75  :  US$0.04 million
Closing Date                 :  December 31, 1975
Rate of Exchange*            :  US$1 = TSh7.14
The schedule to the Loan Agreement defines the Program
as follows:
"The Project consists of the provision to the Borrower of
foreign exchange required for the import into Tanzania
by the public and private sectors of essential capital
and intermediate goods and raw materials as listed in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and of the implementation
by the Borrower of such parts of its 1974/75 investment
*~~~~~~~~
This is the official exchange rate between the Tanzanian shilling
and the U.S. dollar which prevailed during the disbursement period
of this loan. On October 27, 1975 the Tanzanian shilling was pegged
to the SDR at a rate of Sh9.66 = SDR1.00. On the basis of a dollar/
SDR conversion rate of 1.2 to 1.0, the new shilling/dollar exchange
rate would be 8.05 to 1.00, implying a devaluation of approximately
14 percent vis-a-vis the U.S. dollar.



A-2
program as are to be financed under the Votes of the
Borrower's 1974/75 Development Budget listed in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement."
The Balance of Payments Situation
2.        The need for program lending to Tanzania arose when two
successive years of drought in 1973 and 1974 (leading to imports
of food grains totalling over $100 million in 1974), combined
with the sharp rise in prices of imports as a result of world-
wide inflation, led to a serious balance of payments crisis. The
cushion of foreign exchange reserves accumulated between 1971 and
1973 was sharply reduced during 1974; net reserves had fallen to
only $35 million at the end of the year, after IMF drawings of
$46 million. This level of reserves was equivalent to only three
weeks' imports.
3.        At the time of appraisal of the program loan in September
1974, the Bank's projections for 1975 indicated a current account
deficit of $222 million and an overall balance of payments deficit
of $142 million, thereby underscoring the necessity for program
assistance. The latest revisions of the 1975 balance of payments
indicate an even larger current account deficit of almost $300
million, due to higher than anticipated imports and lower than
anticipated export volumes. After accounting for higher disburse-
ments of project aid, the residual gap is still expected t:o be
approximately $140 million; this residual gap is being met by
bilateral program assistance of an estimated $70 million, the
Bank's $30 million program loan, and other multilateral assistance
(including IMF) of some $40 million. It is evident that the Bank's
program loan was an essential element in filling the 1975 balance
of payments gap; in addition the Bank has been instrumental in
mobilizing bilateral program assistance, both at the time of initial
program loan discussions and during the Consultative Group meeting
for Tanzania in April 1975.
Policy Measures Taken by Government to Cope with the Balance of
Payments Deficit
4.        Quick disbursing financial assistance to cover the
unexpected external gap was provided by the Program Loan. However,
in appraisal, negotiation and presentation of the loan, the Bank
also emphasized the need for policy actions by the Government of
Tanzania to ensure that the balance of payments problem was brought
under control in the short to medium-run, while at the same tine



A-3
the underlying thrust of the Government's long-run development
program could be maintained. The mission which went to Tanzania
in July/August 1975 prepared, as part of the requirement to report
to the Board on the progress of the program, a report entitled
"Progress Report on Policy Understandings Relating to Program
Loan to Tanzania (Loan No. 1063-TA)." 1/ That report provided a
summary assessment of the actions taken by the Government of Tanzania
to alleviate the balance of payments crisis and the steps taken to
restructure the economy in order to maintain the momentum of
development despite the adverse terms of trade shift. This report
necessarily repeats some of the information already contained in
the Board paper. It will evaluate the implementation of the project
on two levels: first, in terms of its success in stimulating
measures to cope with the immediate balance of payments crisis;
second, in terms of the type of policy measures introduced to deal
with the longer-trend problems experienced in the Tanzanian economy
even before the drought and terms of trade shift had their full
impact.
5.        One of the first measures undertaken by the Government
was to mount an exhortation campaign for Tanzanian farmers to
grow more maize in order to restore self-sufficiency in food
grains. The impact of this campaign, combined with sharp upward
revisions in producer prices for food grains, appears to have been
successful, although it has led to a diversion from cash crop
production to food crop production in the 1974/75 season. The 1974/
75 maize harvest turned out, however, to be slightly lower than was
originally estimated because of the lateness of rains in some regions.
Purchases of maize by the National Milling Corporation are expected
to be 100,000 tons, down from the 125,000 tons expected earlier,
but with present stocks the grain should last till end-May 1976.
Also in line with the Government's intention to rationalize agri-
cultural pricing policy producer prices were raised in May and
November 1974 for a number of basic crops, including cotton
(1.13 to 1.50 to 1.75 Sh/kilo), maize (274 to 500 to 750 Sh/metric
ton), wheat (557 to 770 to 1000 Sh/metric ton) and rice (Sh 589 to
650 to 800 Sh/metric ton). Further price increases for a number
of staple crops were approved by the Government and announced in
September to apply to the 1975/76 season. These two issues, namely
adequate producer pricing and the proper balance between cash crop
and food crop production, are being constantly reviewed by the
1 Sec M75-687, September 25, 1975.



A-4
Government as part of the measures needed to stimulate the agri-
culture sector where growth has been lagging in recent years. In
a related measure, the system of steeply progressive export taxes
on coffee (averaging 30 percent) was replaced with a 12-1/2 percent
ad valorem tax so that farmers would be encouraged to grow higher
quality coffee for export.
6.        In the sphere of consumption, the Government acted to
restrict private consumption demand through imposing a wage freeze
in May 1974, curtailing non-food consumer goods imports since mid-
1974, banning imports of luxury items, increasing retail prices of
basic foodstuffs in November 1974 to eliminate or reduce subsidies,
and raising excise taxes on textiles, beer and cigarettes, with fur-
ther tax raises on these items legislated in the 1975/76 Budget.
Urban water rates and electricity user charges were also increased.
The cumulative impact of these measures was to raise the cost of
living of low income workers by 76 percent between March 1974 and
March 1975. This sharp decline in the real income of these
workers was slightly compensated for by a wage increase of 10-12
percent in May 1975.
7.        At the same time the Government acted to restrain public
consumption; Government recurrent expenditure had increased at a
rate of almost 30 percent per year between 1971/72 and 1974/75,
or at a rate slightly above the increase in recurrent revenues.
To control public consumption demand, the Government, in its
1975/76 Budget, allowed for no increase in current expenditures
over the estimated actuals of the previous year, implying a
substantial decrease in planned recurrent expenditures in real
terms.
8.        The measures outlined above, plus the expanded distribu-
tion of food relief were, to a great extent, successful in protecting
the poorer sections of the community from the dramatic short-run
income losses brought about by harvest failures and the terms of
trade decline and also in preventing the balance of payments
situation from becoming much worse. Other policy actions already
taken or under study by the Government deal with the medium and
longer run situation.  These are intended to sustain the pace of
Tanzania's development despite the reduced availability of real
resources. The main elements of the program include reallocating
public investment in favor of directly productive sectors, improving
output performance in agriculture, and increasing efficiency in
industry and mining while at the same time expanding the export
orientation of these sectors.



A-5
9.        One of the most serious problems facing the Tanzanian
economy in recent years has been the declining rate of growth of gross
material product in spite of a high investment rate, averaging 21
percent of GDP over 1967-73. This slow growth in the productive
base of the economy has been diagnosed, in part, to be a result
of the high proportion of investment which went into social and
other infrastructure rather than into the directly productive
sectors of agriculture, industry, and mining. The Government has
been aware of this problem since its 1971 review of the Second
Five Year Plan, and has been making efforts to reallocate its
investment resources. In the 1974/75 Government Development Budget,
aprroved several months before the Program Loan was signed, 36 percent
of capital expenditures were allocated to directly productive sectors
compared to a realized average of 23 percent in the preceding four
years. For total planned public investment (i.e. government develop-
ment expenditures plus extra-budgetary investment financed by para-
statals' own resources) 48 percent was allocated to directly productive
sectors. For 1975/76 the allocations to directly productive sectors
in the Government Development Budget and the more inclusive Annual Plan
for total public investment also correspond closely to the shares
originally budgeted in 1974/75. An even more revealing indicator of the
Government's efforts to redirect public investment in favor of directly
productive sectors is in the proportion of financial allocations to
new projects programmed to start in 1975/76. On this basis, out of
an Annual Plan allocation of Shl221 m. to new projects (representing
one-third of the total public investment allocation of Sh3642),
four-fifths is progranmed for investment in directly productive sectors.
10.       Another long term problem is the recorded low productivity
of labor. The Government is reviewing a recent ILO incomes policy
paper which was prepared at Government request, and is considering a
number of measures designed to increase labor productivity. It remains
to be seen whether the measures under consideration, if implemented,
would be effective.
11.       The inefficiency of publicly owned parastatal enterprises has
become an important issue because of these institutions' key invest-
ment role in such vital sectors of the economy as manufacturing,
energy, transport, finance and commierce. As such, they are the major
users, as well as generators, of the national surplus and play an
important role in the structural transformation of the economy which
Tanzania is attempting. However, these state enterprises have been
largely insulated from market forces by the prevailing system of price,
import and marketing controls, while clear guidelines for their per-
formance goals are lacking. A Government policy paper has been preparel



A-6
dealing with the question of "control" of the parastatals, and the Bank
is assisting in a cost study of the agro-processing and marketing
parastatals.
12.       To improve the balance of payments situation in the long run,
exports will have to be increased. Aside from the policy measures
already discussed, the Government has established two units to deal
specifically with this issue. An export promotion bureau has been set
up in the Ministry of Commerce to study the export potential of various
sub-sectors of manufacturing and an export department is being estab-
lished in the Bank of Tanzania to facilitate the export of manufactured
goods. Also, in late October, the Government of Tanzania, in concert
with the Governments of Kenya and Uganda, devalued the shilling by
approximately 14 percent. This devaluation should contribute to higher
exports.
13.       Another long-term problem area is in project preparation and
implementation. To improve project implementation capacity, the 1975/
76 Development Budget embodies a much more rigorous screening process
to include only ongoing projects and projects guaranteed to "take off"
during the current fiscal year. In addition, two new control units
have been created in the Ministry of Finance to improve public sector
project performance. One will concentrate on monitoring, streamlining,
and expediting disbursements on externally financed projects. The
second will work in cooperation with ministries and parastatals to
monitor the efficient utilization of resources by parastatals.  The
Bank has recently approved a technical assistance credit of $6 million
to assist in project preparation and has seconded several project
advisers to the Mlinistry of Agriculture.
Policy Actions and the Economic Outlook
14.       As was clearly recognized at the time of the program loan
discussions in late 1974, many of the effects of the policy actions
undertaken by the Government will only be felt over the coming years
rather than in a few months. In most cases it is too early to
observe significant effects in the conventional economic indicators.
While the improved harvest for 1975 is to be greatly welcomed, the
balance of payments is nevertheless expected to remain under severe
pressure for the medium-run, until more of the favorable balance of
paymenrs effects of the recent policy changes bear fruit.



A-7
Disbursement Procedures
15.       Foreign exchange provided under this loan was utilized for
essential imports of capital equipment, intermediate goods and raw
materials. No disbursements were made for food, fuel, fertilizers
or consumer goods, or for imports for which other sources of foreign
financing had been secured. In order to streamline disbursement
procedures, no individual import invoices of less than $500 were
eligible for reimbursement.
16.       The program loan was drawn down rapidly, as indicated in
the disbursement schedule on page 1 of this report; over 99 percent
of the loan was' disbursed by the end of April 1975, four months after
effectiveness, and 100 percent by the end of May 1975. At the outset
there were minor delays in processing of import invoices by the
National Bank of Commerce, but these difficulties were resolved
quickly with the assistance of the controller's staff at RMEA.
17.       A special project account was opened by the Bank of Tanzania
to which the Tanzanian shilling equivalents of the imports financed
under the project were credited. The Government was authorized to
withdraw funds from the project account to cover expenditures under
certain specified votes in the 1974-75 Development Budget, after the
Bank had had the opportunity to review the withdrawal proposals.
The use of these counterpart funds was limited to those expenditures
not otherwise financed by external sources. A request to withdraw the
entire amount of the counterpart funds was submitted by the Ministry
of'Finance in July. The request was reviewed by the Bank and autho-
rization was given in August.
Eastern Africa Regional Office
December 30, 1975.






ATTACHMENT B
PROGRESS REPORT ON POLICY UNDERSTANDINGS RELATING
TO PROGRAM LOAN TO TANZANIA (LOAN NO. 1063 TA)
Sec. M75-687
September 25, 1975
I. Policy Understandings and Measures Adopted by the Government
The President's Report on the Program Loan (Part V of the Report*
is attached as Annex I for reference)sets forth the program of policies
which was jointly agreed as desirable to cope with the immediate economic
crisis and to initiate the longer term structural adjustments necessary to
protect and reinvigorate the momentum of development in the face of adverse
terms of trade shifts. In essence, the program called for a judicious
blend of demand management, restructuring investment and improving the
incentive framework in ways that would increase the growth of output despite
the reduced availability of real resources. The main elements of the program
consisted of reallocation of public investment in favor of directly productive
sectors, a series of measures to improve output performance in agriculture,
initiatives to reform the structure of incentives in industry and mining
to engender higher factor productivity and increase the export orientation
of the sector, and restraints on private and Government consumption demand.
This section reviews the progress in implementing these policy
measures. As an overall conclusion there is no question that the Govern-
ment has lived up to the spirit of the policy understandings and taken
significant steps, some of which have been extremely difficult ones, to
implement the program of economic restructuring.
A. Public Investment Policy
The Government has been aware of the need to reallocate public
investment in favor of the directly productive sectors (agriculture,
industry and mining) since its own 1971/72 mid-term review of the second
Five-Year Plan. The 1974/75 Government Development Budget, approved
several months before the Program Loan was signed, allocated 36% of
expenditures to directly productive sectors compared to a realized
average of 23% in the preceding four years. For total planned public
investment (Government development expenditures plus extra-budgetary
investment financed by parastatals' own resources) 48% was allocated to
directly productive sectors.
In the light of past trends and given the short-run constraints
on project implementation capacity these targets were overly ambitious.
Preliminary estimates indicate significant shortfalls in planned public
investment (in the order of 15% in nominal terms). In part the shortfalls
*R74-236, dated November 26, 1974.



B-2
reflect the overall resource squeeze (imposed by drought and import
price inflation during 1974/75) which was even tighter than originally
envisaged. More particularly, a variety of factors (local and foreign)
induced delays in the implementation of some large, externally financed,
productive projects, mainly in agriculture, leading to slower-than-
anticipated disbursements. As a result investment shortfalls were
particularly heavy in directly productive sectors. Nevertheless these sectors
still accounted for 28% of the Government Development Budget compared to
the previous four year average of 23% noted earlier.  And as a share of
total public investment directly productive sectors received 41%.
For 1975/76 the allocations to directly productive sectors in
the Government Development Budget and the more inclusive Annual Plan
for total public investment correspond closely to the shares originally
budgeted in 1974/75. However, in the light of the divergences between
planned and actual expenditures experienced in 1974/75, the 1975/76
program embodies a much more rigorous screening to include only on-going
projects plus those projects guaranteed to "take off" during the current
fiscal year. Furthermore, several specific steps are being taken to
improve project implementation capacity in the directly productive sectors
(see below). More generally, two new units are being created in the
Ministry of Finance to improve public sector project performance. One
will concentrate on monitoring, streamlining, and expediting disbursements
on externally financed projects. The second, announced in the Finance
Minister's June Budget speech, "will work in cooperation with ministries
and parastatals . . . . to see to it that parastatal resources are
efficiently utilized to increase production. Those parastatals which
'fail to generate surpluses will be closed down." All these measures
should bring about a closer correspondence between planned and actual
expenditures in 1975/76 than occurred in 1974/75.
Perhaps a more revealing and persuasive indicator of the Govern-
ment's continued efforts to redirect public investment in favor of
directly productive sectors is obtained by looking at the f'inancial
allocations to new projects programmed to start in 1975/76, as these
represent the Government's current sectoral priorities whereas total
allocations to all projects primarily reflect the financial implications
of decisions taken in the past. On this basis, out of an Annual Plan
allocation of Sh 1,221 m. to new projects (representing one-third of the
total public investment allocation of Sh 3,642 m.), four-fifths is
programmed for investment in directly productive sectors.
The economic crisis and the public investment reallocations
it induced also had repercussions for the Government's third Five-Year
Plan which was to begin in July 1975. Recognition of a more urgent and
long-term need to build up the directly pfoductive sectors was a prime
factor in the postponement of the Plan by one year and the ensuing
reworking of priorities in the draft Plan document which is currently
underway.



B-3
B. Agricultural Policy
A number of programs and policies have been initiated by the
Government to stimulate the growth of agricultural production.
In crop production the single most impressive effort of the
past year has been the TANU Party's success in mobilizing peasants to
grow more food under the campaign slogan of "farming as a matter of life
and death". The impact of this campaign, highlighted by a nationwide
tour by President Nyerere, should not be underestimated, though it is
difficult to separate its effects from the sharp upward revisions in
producer prices for  foodgrains (see below) and the return of normal
weather conditions. These positive factors certainly far outweighed
any production disruptions which may have been caused by the massive
villagization program in 1974 (see below). Further specific programs to
assist farmers in increasing food production are now under preparation.
The most important is the National Maize Project which is expected to be
presented to the Board later this year. The preparation of this Project
has proceeded in close collaboration with the Tanzanian authorities. The
Project would mark the beginning of a national agricultural development
effort extending over two decades and aimed at raising agricultural
productivity and rural living standards throughout Tanzania.
Agricultural producer prices for major crops were increased in
May and November 1974, so that the ratio of Tanzania producer prices to
world prices have risen between 1973 and 1975 as follows: maize, .38 to
.88; wheat, .56 to .71; and sorghum, .61 to .97. To keep the issue of
-adequate producer prices under continuing review, an Agricultural Price
Review Commission has been set up. This Commission recommended further
price increases for a number of staple crops which were approved by
Government and announced in early September, to apply to the 1975/76
season. The Commission has also alerted policy-makers to the need to
strengthen the relative profitability of cash crops in current and subsequent
price setting exercises so as to avoid undesirable shifts of acreage from
these to foodgrains. In addition, the system of steeply progressive export
taxes on coffee (averaging 30%) has been replaced with a 12-X% ad valorem
tax, thus restoring the incentive to farmers to produce higher quality
coffee for export. These actions reflect the clear recognition by the
Government of the importance of agricultural pricing policy. The system
of pan-territorial (uniform) prices remains in effect, though studies are
underway to evaluate its effects and examine alternatives.
The Government remains extremely conscious of the need to improve
project planning and implementation capacity, especially after the delays
experienced in 1974/75 (see above). A Project Coordination Unit has been
established in the Ministry of Agriculture and in response to a request
from the Government the Bank has supplied a project management advisor
and a financial advisor to this Unit. In addition, the Bank's agricultural
development service has supplied 15 technical staff to meet specific needs
in various projects.



B-4
To correct inadequacies in the distribution system, regional
trading companies have been introduced to coordinate distribution of
agricultural inputs, marketed products and consumer goods. Also, the
Bank Group has provided assistance for studying the problems of the
road transport sector under the recent Highway Maintenance Credit
(No. 507 TA). However, as in the case of project planning and implement-
ation, improvements will take time to mature and further reforms may be
called for in the future.
Finally, the Government has recognized that inadequately planned
villagization can have a negative impact on agricultural production.
During the latter half of 1974 there was a massive push for villagization
initiated by regional authorities in almost all sections of the country.
As a result of this effort the number of rural households that have been
affected now includes an estimated two-thirds to four-fifths of the entire
rural population. However, despite the crash nature of the 1974 villagi-
zation effort, it does not appear that the short-run production effects
have been disastrous, as was predicted by some observers in late 1974.
The resettled farmers were able to plant food crops, indeed they were
required to plant them under the Government's "life and death agriculture"
.policy. The expectation now is that the 1975 food crop harvest will be
close to normal, as was indicated earlier. The year 1975 has been a pericd
of consolidation for the villagization movement and no further large-scale
resettlement of farmers has taken place. The Government is reviewing
carefully the 1974 experience and intends to carry out the remaining
villagization program in a more carefully planned manner.
C. Industry and Mining
The Government has given high priority to increasing productivity
in the industrial and mining sectors. Policy papers are being prepared on
parastatal organization and Government control over parastatals, performance
indicators for parastatals, price and import control systems, and on an
incentive system for workers and managers. The 1975/76 Annual Plan accords
high priority to projects that will have a positive effect on the balance
of payments. An export promotion bureau has been set up in the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry to study the export potential of various sub-
sectors of manufacturing and an export department has been established in
the Bank of Tanzania.  To improve project preparation and implementation,
a Project Unit is to be established in the Tanzania Investment Bank to
administer a technical assistance project to be financed by an IDA credit
which it is proposed to present to the Board by the end of 1975.
D. Private Consumption
To restrict private consumption-demand, non-food consumer goods
imports have been sharply curtailed since mid-1974, and a ban has been
placed on the import of automobiles, spirits, luxury textile goods and
others. Retail prices of basic foodstuffs were increased sharply in
November 1974 in an effort to eliminate or reduce subsidies, and excise



B-5
taxes on textiles, beer and cigarettes were raised to absorb unsatisfied
demand. The retail price of maize flour was increased by 60%, sugar by
100% and rice by 150%. Urban water rates and electricity user charges
have also been increased. The cumulative impact of these changes was to
increase the cost of living index for low income workers in Dar es Salaam
by 76% between March 1974 and March 1975, indicating that there has been
a sharp decline in the real incomes of urban dwellers. The 1975/76
Budget has legislated further tax increases on beer, cigarettes, soft
drinks and petroleum products.  A freeze has been maintained on wages and
salaries since May 1974, except for low income workers earning Sh 400
per month or less, whose wages were raised by 10-12% in June 1975 because
of the substantial losses in real purchasing power which had been sustained
by these groups. Finally, an Incomes Policy paper, prepared with ILO
assistance, is under consideration by the Government.
E. Government Consumption
Government recurrent expenditure increased at a rate of almost
30% per year between 1971/72 and 1974/75, or at a rate slightly above the
increase in recurrent revenues. This was attributable to a rapid expansion
in the scale of Government operations and also, in 1974/75, to subsidies
on high priced commercial foodgrain imports. Nevertheless, this expansion
of Government consumption was seriously straining the economy and contri-
buting to domestic inflation. The 1975/76 Budget, therefore, allows for
no increase in recurrent expenditures over the estimated actuals of the
previous year, implying a substantial decrease in planned recurrent
expenditures in real terms.
F. Summary
To sum up, the policy initiatives adopted by the Government to
meet the present economic crisis can justifiably be characterized as
impressive, and in some ways go beyond what was called for in the policy
understandings reached at the time of the Program Loan.
II. Policy Actions and the Economic Outlook
As was recognized at the time of the Program Loan discussions,
many of the effects of the policy actions undertaken by the Government
will be felt over years rather than months. In most cases it is too
early to observe significant effects in the conventional economic indica-
tors, although in the critical area of food production the more than
doubling of the maize price combined with the restoration of normal rainfall
and the national exhortation campaign is expected to yield a marketable
surplus of 100,000-125,000 tons (compared to only 25,000 tons for the 1974
crop and 74,000 tons in 1973). Together with present stocks, this would
be adequate to carry the country through to the spring of 1976. Because
of the relatively buoyant harvest outlook no commercial grain imports are
planned for the second half of 1975.



B-6
While the improved harvest for 1975 is greatly welcomed, the balance
of payments is expected to remain under severe pressure for the short-
run, until more of the favorable balance of payments effects of the
recent policy changes bear fruit. The 1974 balance of payments deficit
was met primarily by drawing down reserves, with net reserves falling to
only $35 m. (equivalent to only three weeks' imports) at the end of the
year.  The balance of payments    forecast for 1975 shows a reduction
in the current account deficit because of reduced food imports, concessional
food aid, and tight controls on non-essential consumer imports. Export
volumes, however, are expected to stagnate, while prices of most of
Tanzania's exports have fallen from their 1974 peaks. The deficit in 1975
is being met by a massive infusion of foreign assistance, estimated to
reach $280 m., or almost $20 per capita. Even with this huge inflow
Tanzania will be unable to build up net foreign exchange reserves.
For 1976 the balance of payments gap is projected tentatively
to be slightly above $100 m., based on the following assumptions: no
grain imports, other import volumes remaining at the 1975 level, which
implies a continuation of the very tight import control program, export
volumes increasing by 5%, export prices recovering by 7%, and project
assistance remaining at the 1975 level in real terms, excluding Tan-Zam
railways. At the present time the only known available resources for
filling this gap are the remaining balance of the IMF second credit
tranche (the standby was concluded in August, when the 1975 Oil Facility
drawing was also agreed), amounting to $6 m.  Thus, a gap in the order of
$100m. would still remain. Tanzania will clearly require additional
concessionary assistance during this period of economic restructuring.
Eastern Africa Regional Office
September 25, 1975



B-7
Annex 1
PART V - MANAGING THE MEDIUM-TERM
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS PROBLEM -
General
36.       The projected size and persistent trend of overall B.O.P. deficits
over 1975-80 suggest that major remedial measures are required in the
structure of the Tanzanian economy. The projected trend is the consequence
of the expected deterioration in the terms of trade and the slow growth
of export volumes. Thus, less relative real resources are expected to
be available to sustain the growth of consumption and investment. As
already noted, persistent B.O.P. deficits resulting from the present pattern
of investment, consumption and output would require a level of external
borrowing, which is likely to be increasingly on conventional terms, such
that creditworthiness would soon be exhausted. Continued external borrowing
on conventional terms would inevitably result in external debt management
problems in the 1980s. Reducing the level of consumption-absolutely at
present low levels of per capita incomes and consumption is politically
unacceptable. However, the rate of increase of consumption can be moderated.
Even if this is achieved, the resource constraint will be such that there
will not be enough resources to sustain the present rate of increase of
investment. It follows that if the growth rate of GDP is to be maintained
and hopefully increased, then investment will have to be restructured to
become more productive, especially in ways that benefit the B.O.P. The
preferred solution is therefore a judicious blend of demand management
and restructuring of investment in ways that increase the growth of output
despite the limited resources available. This solution seeks to increase
output while moderating the rate of increase of consumption and investment.
Public Investment Policy
37.       As noted in Part IV, the Government has already made substantial
progress in reallocating public sector investment to the directly productive
sectors of agriculture, industry and mining and has informed the Bank that
it will continue to pursue this objective. This will imply that investment
resources will be available for other sectors. Although there will be
political and institutional difficulties in making these reallocations
(for example, the Government is committed to supply water to all rural
areas in 20 years and these plans will now have to be rephased) the Govern-
ment is determined to carry them out.
1/   Excerpt from "Report and Recommendation of the President to
the Executive Directors on a Proposed Program Loan to the
United Republic of Tanzania," November 25, 1974 (Report
No. P-1517a-TA).



B-8
Agriculture Policy
38.       A second policy area is to improve agricultural production.  The
single most worrying weakness in the economy is the low rate of growth of
agriculture production as reflected in the stagnation of per capita food
output. While this is a result of a range of problems, there is consensus
on some of the primary contributing factors. Until recently, producer
incentives were dampened by low agricultural producer prices. However, the
Government has responded to this situation by substantially increasing the
prices of the major crops in 1973 and 1974. For example, producer prices
were increased substantially on May 1, 1974, and increased again on November 1,
1974 for the 1974-75 crop season. The November price increases include a
50 percent increase for maize, 23 percent for paddy, 30 percent for wheat,
75 percent for cotton and 20 percent for flue cured tobacco. Corresponding
adjustments have also been made to the controlled retail prices. These
prices are now close to the projected long term world parity. The Government
has informed the Bank of its intention to continue to maintain prices at
levels which provide sufficient incentive to producers. The increased rural
incomes made possible by these higher producer prices will not, in our
judgement, increase consumption to unmanageable levels, and the foreign
exchange gains of increased production would substantially exceed the foreign
exchange costs involved in the increased rural consumption.
39.       There are three other policies affecting producer incomes where
the appropriate action raises great difficulties. One is that the structure
of progressive export taxes, largely on "older" traditional crops such as
coffee, are now such that at higher prevailing world prices the producer
receives relatively less than at lower prices. This probably has an adverse
effect on production. However, the short-run supply elasticity of coffee
is low, and with a premium on savings, taxing the "windfall" incomes generated
by higher world prices is a legitimate fiscal objective. Another is the
present uniform national producer price policy. Although this policy results
in some misallocation of resources, its modification is a complex subject,
e.g., if transport differentials are not set correctly, internal cross
haulage will occur. It is also a politically sensitive issue in egalitarian
Tanzania. Finally, the rise in the import prices of agriculture inputs such
as fertilizer, has affected the impact of input subsidy policies. However,
input subsidy levels will have to be examined by the Government in the context
of producer price policy and tax policies.  The Government has informed the
Bank that it will initiate studies of these complex issues with a view to
taking appropriate action.
40.       A second factor contributing to agricultural stagnation is inadequate
project planning and implementation. For example, the IDA assisted tea and
tobacco projects are far behind original schedules. Part of the problem is
that skilled staff has been dispersed too-widely and staff turnover has been
extreme as a result of agency proliferation and Government decentralization.
Concentrating limited staff on priority areas and projects and greater
stability of staff tenure are seen as the solutions. The Government has
begun to move in this direction. For example, a team of project implementation
experts has been established in the Ministry of Agriculture. The Government



B-9
:,!so notified the Bank that it will arrange longer tenure for senior
.-aff whose frequent rotation has disrupted implementation.  The Bank
Group will assist the Government's efforts by provision of project planning
staff under the IDA assisted Kigoma project as well as the regular services
of the Bank's Regional Mission in East Africa (RMEA). Furthermore, the
Bank's Resident Representative in Tanzania is concentrating his attention
on this problem.
41.       A third contributing factor to the agricultural production
problem is the inadequacy of distribution systems for production inputs,
consumer goods and the marketing of crops. One problem here is inadequate
road transport. This is due, in part, to the transition to a mixed system
of private, cooperative and state truck operators. The Association has
agreed to provide expertise to find solutions in the road transport sector
under the Highway Maintenance Project (Credit 507 TA). The Government has
informed the Bank that it will take measures to improve distribution of
inputs, consumer goods, and marketing of crops. These measures are expected
to include improvements in truck maintenance, use of army trucks in supply
emergencies, improvement of credit facilities for private truckers, and
measures to improve cooperative marketing which is presently seriously
inadequate in a number of respects.
42.       Another contributing factor to the agricultural problem is that
when villagization under ujamaa is poorly planned and implemented, as has
happened on occasion, this disrupts agricultural production for at least
one season, if not longer. The Government decided to increase rapidly the
pace of villagization in 1974 and, although the statistics are unreliable,
it appears that about two million persons were resettled during the year.
It is also apparent that many of these moves were poorly planned and that
some adverse effect on agricultural production in 1975 can be expected.
In the emergency facing Tanzania, the planning and implementation of
villagization will have to be improved to minimize the short-run negative
effects on production. The Government and TANU party recognize this, and
the Central Committee of the Party is currently conducting an inquiry
into the problems of ujamaa implementation. Meanwhile, the Government has
informed the Bank that villagization plans will continue to be kept under
constant review and their implementation will be related to the availability
of suitable land, competent staff, adequate plans and supply of production
inputs. When farmers are resettled within established cash crop areas,
villagization will be implemented in ways not to disrupt production.
Industry and Mining
43.       In the area of industry and mining, improvement in the productivity
of existing state manufacturing enterprises-is very important. These are
now largely insulated from market incentives by the system of price, import
and marketing controls. The Government is currently identifying possible
improvements to the present incentive systems for managers and workers, to
more effectively relate bonuses to increased productivity. The recent



B-10
Bank industry/mining sector mission found cases where the export/domestic
price ratio was adverse to exports.  Furthermore, incentives for the
export of manufactured goods are needed and the Government has indicated
to the Bank that it intends to initiate appropriate studies. The develop-
ment of selected industrial and mining ventures will have a substantial
impact on the B.O.P. outlook. The manufacture of textiles, sisal, cashew
and cement, based on local raw materials, for all of which projects are
being prepared or are in the early stages of implementation, are examples
of industries with expansion potential. Phosphate, soda ash, rare metals
from beach sands, iron ore and coal, and natural gas are examples of
mineral development possibilities. The economic potential of these
industrial and mining possibilities are so important that the Government
has decided that scarce skilled manpower and finance will be concentrated
on the processing of these projects. The Bank is now exploring the feasi-
bility of an IDA credit to assist in project preparation in these sectors.
Private Consumption
44.       It has already been emphasized that measures to slow down the
rate of growth of private consumption will be required to deal with the
projected B.O.P. problem. The Government has already introduced and
intends to maintain a wage and salary freeze although this will be
increasingly difficult to maintain If inflationary pressures persist, and
it is difficult to insulate the economy from inflation from the import
side. The Government is also taxing unsatisfied demand where consumer
goods are in short supply as is now the case for several basic items such
as textiles and beer. The recently announced increased prices (para. 38
above) will also modify the growth in private consumption. Finally, state
enterprise product prices will need to be adjusted where inflation is
raising costs if state enterprise savings are to be maintained. This will
be difficult because higher prices conflict with the objective of holding
down the cost of living for the poor.
Government Consumption
45.       The Government is having to examine the rate of growth of its own
expenditure, particularly of non-development recurrent expenditure. A
decline in the rate of increase of investment that generates high levels
of recurrent expenditures, for example in the social sectors, would
automatically have a favorable effect on Government consumption. While
increases in the rate of taxation are unlikely to be possible given the
present high ratio of tax revenue to monetary GDP, it may be feasible to
devise direct or indirect methods for collecting user charges for certain
social services, such as rural water, at present supplied free of charge.
The Government has informed the Bank that it will take further measures
to slow the rate of growth of Government consumption and to curtail non-
development recurrent expenditure.



B-1l
Sumry
46        The policy measures outlined above can be expected to reduce
the B.O.P. gap to manageable levels, without undue damage to the
development effort, if implemented effectively and as quickly as possible.
The Government recognizes the need for action along these lines. Many
of these policy changes have already been introduced and will be developed
further iu the formulation of the 1975-76 development budget and the new
Five-Year Development Plan both scheduled to begin July 1, 1975. Further-
more, in the agricultural sector future public investment and staff will
be concentrated in areas of highest productive potential.  In this context,
special neas!tres will be devoted to a national food production program,
and within this program, a special program to increase maize production.



