RETURN TO
FILE COPYI                              REPORTS D
WITHIN4
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONA BAQNR                 RU        ION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1517a-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROGRAM LOAN
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
November 25, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USED IN THIS REPORT
Tanzanian Sh = US$0.14
US$1.00       =  TSHs 7.14
ABBREVIATIONS USED
B.O.P.        =  Balance of Payments
TANU          =  Tanganyika African National Union
TANZANIA FISCAL YEAR
July 1st - June 30th



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PROGRAM LOAN
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
program loan for the equivalent of US$30.0 million to the United Republic
of Tanzania. The loan would have a term of 30 years, including 10 years
grace, with interest at 8 percent per annum.
PART I - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
2.     Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.    Beginning with
an IDA credit for education in 1963, 19 credits and six Bank loans
amounting to $246.3 million have so far been approved for Tanzania. In
addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary of nine loans, totaling $229.8
million, which have been extended for the development of common services
operated regionally by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their associa-
tion in the East African Community. The only IFC investments in Tanzania
to date, totaling $4.7 million, were made in the Kilombero Sugar Company
in 1960 and 1964. This Company encountered financial difficulties and
in 1969 IFC and other investors sold their interest in the Company to
the Government. A discussion of present and future Bank operations in
Tanzania, summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to Tanzania and
the East African Community Organizations as of September 30, 1974 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects are contained in Annex II.
3.     The last full Economic Report on Tanzania (AE-26) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on May 22 and June 22, 1972. This was followed
by an Economic Updating Report (30-TA) which was distributed on December 11,
1972 and which was especially prepared for the East African Consultative
Group meeting on Tanzania of January 1973. An agriculture rural develop-
ment sector mission visited Tanzania during September/October 1973; its
report will be distributed shortly. A mission to study the industrial and
mining sectors visited Tanzania in August/September 1974.
4.     Tanzania's overall debt service ratio is currently about six per-
cent and is not expected to rise significantly in the medium term. In
view of this low ratio there is scope for a modest amount of lending to
Tanzania on conventional terms. In terms of outstanding commitments, the
Bank Group is Tanzania's largest creditor followed by Sweden, People's Republic
of China, Canada, Denmark, the Netherlands and the Federal Republic of Germany.
Including a notional one-third share of the debt of the East African
Community Corporations, the IBRD is presently holding 14 percent of Tanzania's
outstanding external debt and IDA 16 percent; the IBRD share is expected to
rise to about 20 percent in the next five years, and the IDA share to remain
about the same. The share of debt service payments to the Bank is at present
about 10 percent of total debt service payments; the corresponding share for



- 2 -
IDA is about 2 percent. These two figures are projected to rise to
about 20 percent and 3 percent, respectively, by 1980. Most capital
aid to Tanzania is made available on very favorable terms and a declining
share of the total is tied to procurement in the donor country. Supplier's
credits have been kept to the minimum.
PART II - GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT GOALS, STRATEGIES AND
PROBLEMS OF IMPLEMENTATION
5.     The goals and methods that characterize the Tanzania development effort
are as important, or more important, for understanding the present economic
problem than the conventional economic statistical trends over the past 13
years of its independence. Two paramount goals are equalizing standards of
living and eradicating poverty. The objective of equalizing standards of
living permeates Tanzania development policies. The tax structure is highly
progressive; at present rates the maximum net of tax personal income is the
equivalent of about $8,000 per year. Moreover, better off sections of the
population, such as coffee farmers, pay a steeply progressive export tax. Wages
and salaries of middle and upper income groups have been held back as lower
income group wages were increased. Consumer prices for most basic consumer
goods are uniform over the nation so that less well off regions, despite higher
supply costs, pay no more than wealthier regions. The same reasoning applies
to uniform national agricultural producer prices. Finally, measures are taken
to ensure that the provision of social services such as water, schools and
health clinics result in equal treatment; this means that less well off areas
are favored so they will "catch up" to the better endowed areas. As a result,
differentials in standards of living have been narrowed between the urban upper
income groups and the lowest, and to a lesser extent between urban and rural
groups and between regions.
6.     The complementary goal of poverty eradication has made rural develop-
ment one of the primary goals of Tanzania in as much as over 90 percent of
the population, most with per capita incomes of less than $70 per year,
reside there. This has reinforced the policy of giving priority to the
supply of social services and infrastructure to rural areas, but with an
equal emphasis on agricultural development to increase rural incomes. The
Tanzanians have had difficulty in achieving a balance in implementing these
two components of rural development. On the one hand, it has proven
institutionally and logistically easier to provide infrastructure and
social services. On the other, it has been more difficult to mount effec-
tive agriculture programs: staff is more scarce; some of the improved
technologies suitable for adaptation in Tanzania have not been proven; and
there are all the problems of organizing supply of inputs and marketing of
products for over 2.5 million farm families.
7.     A major method of rural development is ujamaa.   Most of the rural
population is dispersed in individual homesteads, and most of the population
is stretched out along the perimeters of the country. If the rural popula-
tion's methods of production and manner of life are to be transformed and



- 3 -
modernized, relatively cheap and efficient means must be found for delivery
of services such as extension, credit, input supply, marketing, roads,
water, schools, health, etc. Collecting the scattered population into
villages is seen as the principal method to facilitate these objectives,
and "villagization" is therefore the major characteristic of the first
phase of ujamaa. Villagization was first recommended to the Tanzanians
by a Bank Economic Survey Report in 1961. But the Tanzanians have evolved
and adopted their own features. Whereas the resettlement schemes recommended
(1961) by the Bank evolved into a capital intensive program provided by
the Government, the Tanzanians now stress less capital intensity and volun-
tary contribution of labor in creating housing and village infrastructure.
About one third of the rural population are now in ujamaa villages. The
second stage of ujamaa is to create multi-purpose cooperatives for supplies,
credit and marketing. This stage is taking longer to achieve. The long
term goal is to have ujamaa farmers practice collective farming. However,
initial efforts in this regard had very mixed results in respect of output
and farmer responsiveness. Hence, the present policy is to support indivi-
dual farming on individual plots in the block of land allocated to the
ujamaa village.
8.     Another goal is mass participation of the population in defining
the priorities of development and their implementation. This is facilitated
by the political party organization (Tanganyika African National Union, TANU)
which starts with the ten family cell and is linked successively to village,
division, ward, district, region and national central committee and congress
levels. Party representatives at each level are expected to and do participate
in organizing the development effort. Recently (1972), the central govern-
ment administration was systematically decentralized and substantial budget
and program powers were given to the 20 regions and 78 districts. Each district
and region is expected to have its own development plan and budget subject
to central government guidelines, control and finance, and to direct and
coordinate all development staff and activities within its jurisdiction.
However, they have no taxing powers. It is too early to assess the impact
of this substantial reorganization, but one fact and one tendency are
evident. The fact is that the scarce high and middle level managerial
staff of the government have been spread even thinner as the areas of
responsibility broadened. The tendency is that with grass roots interests
given greater scope, the demand for the popular services such as water
supply, health clinics, schools and roads has grown rapidly. As already
noted, these services are institutionally easier to implement than
agricultural programs, and this tendency threatens to unbalance the develop-
ment effort. To counter this tendency, current policy is to insist that
at least 40 percent of district and regional development budgets be spent
on directly productive activities. But at present this is more of a goal
than a practice.
9.     Another goal is self reliance which operates at many levels.     First,
it is the country wide voluntary contribution of labor as described above
in ujamaa. Second, it is the pricing of state enterprise products to
ensure that state enterprise savings make a substantial contribution to



-4-
financing investment. State enterprise savings were estimated at
about $100 million in 1973 or 6 percent of GDP. Thirdly, it means a
serious tax effort where combined tax revenues now (1973) are 19 percent
of GDP, one of the highest ratios for a country with a per capita
income level of $110.
10.   A final goal is Tanzania's desire to develop a socialist economic
system. In furtherance of this objective a series of nationalization
measures have been taken since 1967 when the Arusha Declaration (Tanzania's
blue print for socialism) was announced. There is also growing state
intervention in market pricing. The prices of capital, labor, land, imports,
industrial and agricultural products and consumer goods are all controlled
both by direct price controls and indirect methods such as import licensing.
There have been implementational problems and in some cases conflict of
goals. For example, the goal of keeping basic industrial and food prices
low to benefit lower income groups, all part of equalizing standards of
living, conflicts with the goals of maximizing state enterprise savings or
with providing adequate producer prices for farmers. The decentralization
of government machinery and the creation of state agencies have placed heavy
pressure on scarce skilled manpower; they are not only spread thin, but
there has been a very rapid turnover of top and middle level staff. One
might say that these conflicts are the inevitable consequences of a "frontal"
approach to development and poverty eradication.
PART III - THE BALANCE OF PAYMENTS PROBLEM
Background
11.    Between 1968 and 1973, GDP increased 4.8 percent per year in real
terms. Exports of goods and services in constant prices grew 2.8 percent
per year during the same period. Domestic savings increased from 17
percent of GDP to 18 percent. Investment increased from 19 percent of
GDP to 23 percent with public sector investment rising to 80 percent of
the total investment in 1973. Annual price increases were moderate to
low. Current government receipts more than doubled, but current expen-
ditures increased at similar rates so that budgetary savings stagnated.
While imports, especially of capital and intermediate goods grew rapidly,
export earnings grew very slowly and the increasing current account
deficits were financed by a rapid increase of public capital inflow,
largely on concessional terms, and external reserves were maintained at
prudent levels.
12.    Several features emerge from these trends.    The increase in domestic
savings and investment rates was substantial, and is evidence of a serious
commitment to development. The growth of GDP is probably not commensurate
with the investment effort. This is largely due to the large amount of
investment that went into slow gestation infrastructure and social services.



- 5 -
This was exemplified by the investment of about $400 million in the
Tan-Zam railway, the largest single project undertaken in Tanzania, and
by the difficulties encountered in mounting investment in agriculture.
The stagnation of agricultural export volumes and the apparent growth
of food production at the same rate as the population were the most worrisome
problems. Despite the heavy pressure on domestic and external resources,
the absence of unduly high domestic price increases, the maintenance of
external reserves at prudent levels and the financing of external capital
inflows on concessional terms (the external debt service ratio was 5.5
percent in 1973) attests to prudent financial management. Indeed, with
external reserves at about $145 million in late 1973 - the equivalent of 4
months imports - the economy appeared in relatively good shape before the
events of the winter of 1973-74.
The Current Situation
13.    Three events occurred then which resulted in a drastic change in
the overall balance of payments of Tanzania. First, import prices rose
sharply; most particularly petroleum prices. Overall import prices
increased an estimated 15 to 20 percent. The increased cost of petroleum
imports, whose prices rose three-fold, is estimated at $67 million in 1974
alone, or 14 percent of 1973 imports. Second, the 1973 rains failed in many
parts of the country resulting in a substantial reduction in food production.
in 1973-74. This became evident in January and February 1974 necessitating
substantial increases in imports of basic food items in 1974. The drought
became general in 1974 necessitating continued high levels of food imports
from September 1974 to August 1975 when the new crop harvest begins. It
is estimated that food imports in 1974 will cost $147 million compared to
an annual average in 1970-72 of $40 million. Finally, agricultural export
volumes declined or stagnated so that Tanzania could not fully benefit
from higher export prices. The drought was a primary reason for the
decline or stagnation in food and agricultural export production in 1974,
but it also reflected weaknesses in agricultural development policy.
14.    The overall balance of payments was in surplus in 1972 and 1973
but the net result of the events of 1973-74 described above is that
reserves are estimated to decline by $89 million even after allowing
for drawings on the IMF of $34 million and $11 million of bilateral
B.O.P. financing to meet the emergency. As a result external reserves
at the end of 1974 are estimated at $56 million - or less than one months
import equivalent of 1974 imports.
15.    The upward trend of import prices, high food imports and stagnant
agricultural export volumes is expected to continue into 1975. A
judgement on the outlook for the overall B.O.P. in 1975 depends on
several crucial assumptions.



-6-
We have assumed that:
(a)  normal weather will return in 1974-75,resulting in
normal food crop production, and thereby permitting
substantially reduced food imports after September
1975;
(b) agricultural export volumes, which have been stagnant
or declining in recent years, will grow from September
1975 onwards;
(c) petroleum prices will increase 4 percent in volume
compared to the 9 percent historical trend, a slowing
made possible by conservation measures (price increases and
a ban on weekend gasoline sales) and the substitution of new
hydroelectric power for diesel.
(d) non-food consumer imports will be held constant in
nominal terms involving an estimated decline in real
terms of 7 percent, capital goods imports will increase
4 percent in real terms and 11 percent in nominal terms,
a rate below recent trends;
(e) regular external capital disbursements under project agreements
will increase 10 percent in current terms after 1975: and
(f) external reserves will not be built up, even though they
are less than would be desirable.
Based on these assumptions, it is estimated that the overall B.O.P. deficit
for 1975 will be $142 million. This estimate is conisistent with the one made
by the IMF as part of the first credit tranche arrangements in October
1974.
16.    Thus, the immediate problem is managing the estimated B.O.P. deficit
of $142 million in 1975. External reserves are so low that they cannot
be prudently used to finance the deficit. We judge that consumer imports
other than food will be at austerity levels in 1975 with an estimated
decline of 7 percent in real terms.    For example, the Government has banned
all liquor, tobacco and sugar imports and has reduced automobile imports to
a maximum of 300, far less than a replacement level.     Reducing raw materials
and spare parts for industry would only reduce growth and savings and
exacerbate domestic inflationary trends which emerged in 1974. If capital
goods and construction materials imports were reduced by the extent of the
deficit, public sector investment would have to be reduced by 50 percent which
would seriously undermine the development program built up with great effort
over recent years. Thus, the preferred alternative is to arrange financing
for the 1975 B.O.P. deficit of $142 million.



-7-
17.    Most, if not all, of the financing for the 1975 B.O.P. deficit
will have to be quick disbursing because of the immediacy of the problem.
Our B.O.P. projections already assume that disbursements under existing
and new project financing arrangements will be increased substantially
in 1975 (by 21 percent) and the Tanzanian authorities have taken measures
to this end. Thus, program assistance is required in 1975 in order to
avoid a reduction in investment.
The Longer Term Problem
18.    While there are necessarily increasing uncertainties when the
components of the B.O.P. are projected into the future, the trend and
magnituue of the projected B.O.P. deficits indicates a major problem.
Assuming continuation of present economic policies, the overall B.O.P.
dpfici ts would be about as follows:
TiS$ Million
1976     56
1977     75
1978     89
1979     97
1980    101
Concessionary aid will not be available in anything like these magnitudes
and reliance on external borrowing on conventional terms would exhaust
Tanzania's external creditworthiness. The trend and size of B.O.P. deficits
over 1976-80 is therefore not sustainable, and economic policy remedies
must be adopted. The Tanzanian authorities agree with this diagnosis.
19.    The policy remedies required are discussed in Part V below.
It will take time to implement these policy changes. For example,
new investments in agriculture, industry and mining that will directly
and indirectly benefit the B.O.P. will take several years to come
to fruition. In addition, it will take a few years to make further
changes to the development budget if for no other reason than that it
takes time to build up new priority projects.



- 8 -
PART IV - INVESTMENT POLICIES AND PROGRA4
General
20.    The public sector dominates investment in Tanzania.    Private
investment has amounted to about Sh 500 million ($71.4 million) per year
for the last five years and is expected to account for less than 18
percent of total investment this year. The Government's development
budget accounts for over 75 percent of the total public sector invest-
ment program. The bulk of the extra budgetary program is accounted for
by parastatal (nationalized company) investments in agriculture and
industry financed by self-generated funds, borrowing from the local
banking system, direct borrowing from foreign sources and transfers
fromn the budget.
21.    During the second five-year plan period (1969-74) Tanzania achieved
an impressive level of investment which reached 33 percent of monetary
GDP, or 23 percent of total GDP, at 1971 market prices.       However, this
increased rate of investrment was not significantly reflected in the growth
of gross domestic product. This was a result of a heavy bias in these
investments toward infrastructure (particularly in communications links
with Zambia), the difficulty in mounting effective programs in agriculture
and the under-utilization of some investments, particularly in industry.
In 1971 severe financial difficulties resulted in drastic cuts in the 1971-72
development budget. The Government instituted an intensive mid-plan review
at that time and decided to make a conscious effort to reallocate develop-
ment expenditures to more productive, quick-yielding investments. However,
it has taken some time for this policy decision to reflect itself in the
pattern of investment expenditures. Some major infrastructure projects
have only recently been completed and the identification and preparation
of directly productive projects in the agricultural, industry and mining
sectors has proved to be a slow and difficult: process.
The 1974-75 Investment Program
22.    The 1974-75 investment plan forms the bridge between the second
five-year plan, which ended in June 1974 and the third plan due to start
in July 1975. The overall 1974-75 developmernt budget of Sh 2.2 billion
($314 million) represents a 38 percent increase over the 1973-74 program.
However, the extent of the foreign and local resource constraints were
not fully appreciated when the 1974-75 plan Was formulated and some short-
fall in implementation is likely. The Government is, therefore, actively
reviewing the developmnent budget to ensure that any shortfalls which
occur do not affect the directly productive sectors. Consideration is being
given to freezing some ongoing infrastructure projects, especially those with
high import content and for which legal commitments have not been made. All
new projects will be reviewed in the light of their production potential.



- 9 -
Tanzania: 1974-75 Development Program
Total Public Secto
Government Development Budget     Investment Program_
$ million   %             $ million    %
Directly Productive Sectors                114.9    36.5             176.9     402
Agriculture2/                          79.4    25.2             127.5     31.8
Conmmerce, Industry Mining             35.5    11.3              49.4     12.4
Economic Infrastructure                    117.0    37.1             137.9     34.5
Water                                  31.9    10.0              31.9      7.9
Power                                  31.3     9.9              40.4     10.1
Communications                         30.4     9.7              31.3      7.8
Other                                  23.4     7.5              34.3      8.7
Social Infrastructure                       28.9     9.0              30.8      7.6
Education                              15.9     5.1              17.8      4.4
Health                                 11.7     3.6              11.7      2.9
Other                                   1.3     0.3               1.3      0.3
Other (including Security)                  55.3    17.4              55.3     13.7
Total                                 316.1   100               400.9    100
Tanzania-Zambia RailwaY3                3.6                       3.6
Total                                 319.7                     404.5
1/   Budgetary plus extra-budgetary expenditures.
2/   Includes tea, meat, sugar and cashew processing.
3/   Local costs only (these are entirely financed by a Chinese Commodity credit).



- 10 -
23.    Even before the review the current development budget 1/ showed
a marked change of emphasis from earlier years. Over 36 percent of the
development budget and over 44 percent of the total public sector program
is to be concentrated in the directly productive sectors of agriculture,
industry and mining; this compares to 27 percent of the development budget
in 1972-73 and 23 percent in 1937-74. Several major communications projects
other than the Tan-Zam Railway have now been completed and expenditures for this
sector are expected to make up less than 10 percent of the development budget,
compared to over 28 percent in 1970-71. The relative importance of other
infrastructure investments, including water, has also declined. Expenditures
on social investments including education and health are expected to form
about 9 percent of the development budget. The 30 largest projects amount
to Sh 926 million ($132.3 million) or 42 percent of the total development
budget. These include major investments in sugar, cotton, livestock,
seed multiplication, leather processing, cement, communications, medical
training and water and power development. The remainder of the Government's
development program comprises a large number of medium and smaller scale
projects, many of which will be implemented by the regional administrations
under the new decentralized government structure (paragraph 8 above).
Agriculture
24.    Agriculture has been allocated highest priority; about 25 percent
of the Government's development budget and over 30 percent of public
sector investments are expected to take place in this sector.    Ongoing
programs, including grain storage and seed multiplication projects, are
designed to support Tanzania's efforts to become self-sufficient in the
production of food crops. In addition, Sh 35 million has been allocated
to the 10 major maize producing regions in an attempt to promote small-
holder production of the crop. Subsidized fertilizers, the use of insec-
ticides and improved transport facilities are being supported under this
program. However, the Government was late in recognizing the problems
of the food production sector and properly articulated and well-conceived
food production programs still have to be formulated. The Bank Group is
currently discussing these problems with the Government and it is hoped
that a special maize production project will be ready for implementation in
1976. Other major elements of the agriculture investment program include
nearly Sh 200 million for sugar production projects designed to make
Tanzania self-sufficient in this commodity by 1977; a major effort in the
livestock sector, which will establish parastatal and ujamaa ranches,
improve livestock marketing for the traditional sector and expand meat
processing facilities; smallholder export oriented projects for tea,
tobacco, and cotton; and a major effort to increase cashew production.
In addition, several integrated regional projects are in the early stages
of implementation, preparation and identification.    Many of these efforts
are being supported by ongoing Bank Group projects.
1/ For the purposes of comparison the Tanzania-Zambia Railway,
which is being 100% financed on concessional terms by the
Peoples Republic of China, has been treated as an extra-budgetary item.



- 11 -
25.    Although most of these projects are well-conceived, organizational
difficulties, low producer prices until 1974 and inadequacies in the
marketing system have resulted in a slower rate of implementation than
might have otherwise been expected. These problems and the measures the
Government is taking to solve them are discussed in Part V.
Industry and Mining
26.    The Government's strategy for industrial development gives priority
to the processing of agricultural products and raw materials for local
consumption and for export. Many of the most obvious import substitution
projects have already been implemented. The 1974-75 program includes
projects for the expansion of cashew processing, a new cement factory,
a new sugar factory, the expansion of existing textile mills, a new tannery,
a shoe factory and a canvas mill.
27.    Although not included in the current development budget, Tanzania
has made arrangements with the People's Republic of China to develop
Tanzania's coal and iron ore. It is understood that the project involves
100 percent Chinese financing on concessional terms.
28.    Although there are a number of promising possibilities in the
mining sector, projects still have to be identified and prepared; the
overall allocation to mining of Sh 16.0 million ($2.2 million) is small
but could rise rapidly.
Cormunications
29.    The proportion of the development budget, excluding the Tan-Zam
Railway, devoted to this sector has declined from a high of over 28
percent in 1970-71 to under 10 percent for the current year. Within the
overall allocation the program is now increasingly focusing on the
expansion and upgrading of the network of secondary and tertiary roads,
in particular of feeder roads in line with the importance given to
agricultural development, and improving the maintenance of the present
road network. Five of the 15 major road projects are exclusively for
feeder road development. Several major trunk road projects will be
completed during the year; only a few urgently needed, high priority, new
trunk road improvements will be commenced in 1974-75.
Water and Power
30.    The Government has given high priority to the expansion of potable
water supplies, particularly for the rural sector, and public expenditures
on water have risen from about Sh 62 million ($8.8 million) in 1970-71
to a projected Sh 220 million ($31.4 million) in 1974-75. Although the
Government's ability to redirect expenditures from this sector has



- 12 -
been inhibited by commitments to ongoing projects, in light of the
current resource constraints an attempt has been made to reallocate
expenditures from this to more directly productive sectors. The
proportion of the development budget allocated to water has fallen
from 11.8 percent last year to 10 percent for the current year. Over
80 percent of the water program is being financed by foreign donors.
31.    About Sh 156 million ($22.3 million) or 72 percent of budgeted
investments in the power sector are allocated to the Kidatu Hydroelectric
Power Project which is being supported by Loan No. 715-TA. This 100 MW
project is expected to come on stream in July 1975 and should result in
annual savings of imported fuel of about $13 million per year.
Education
32.    The Government's development strategy in this sector is sound and
well-conceived. The policy is to have universal primary education by
1989, with all secondary, higher education and training geared strictly
to manpower needs. The Government's 1974-75 development program reflects
these policy objectives. About Sh 57 million ($8.1 million) or 52 per-
cent of the sector budget is devoted to primary education. Owing to
resource constraints the expansion of primary education has, however,
been more limited than planned and universal primary education will not
now be reached by the target date. The programs for the expansion of
secondary education (Sh 21.5 million, $3.1 million), teacher training
(Sh 10 million, $1.4 million), higher education (Sh 7.8 million, $1.1
million) and technical education (Sh 10.3 million, $1.2 million) have been
determined strictly in accordance with projected manpower requirements.
Virtually every post-primary education project is being supported by
foreign agencies including the Association.
Health
33.    The Government's strategy in this sector is to develop an economical
rural based health system, organized around rural health centers with out-
lying dispensaries, designed to satisfy the entire health needs of the
family except those which can only be provided in the hospital. Rural
hospitals at the district and regional levels, equipped to provide major
curative services,will also be established to complement the system. This
strategy calls for medical auxiliaries to operate the country's health
care facilities at all levels, under the overall supervision of physicians.
The investment program is geared to the phased production of the required
rural health facilities and the expansion of medical training to meet the
manpower demands. The 1974-75 health program (3.6 percent of the total
development budget) includes modest allocations for the construction and
expansion of training institutions for medical aids and auxiliaries as
well as the expansion of the health faculty at the University of Dar es
Salaam. About Sh 33 million ($4.7 million), or 41 percent of the health
sector development budget, is being administered by the regions, primarily
for the construction of rural health centers and dispensaries.



- 13 -
The New Capital City
34.    In October 1973 the Government decided to shift the capital from
Dar es Salaam to Dodoma which is more centrally located and from which
the Government feels that it will be easier to stimulate and guide
rural development. Details of the move and its phasing, which was
originally scheduled to take place over 10 years, are presently being
finalized. The Prime Minister's Office moved to the new capital in
October 1974. No reliable cost estimates are at present available.
Meanwhile about Sh 23 million ($3.3 million), or just over one percent of
the current development budget, has been allocated for the new capital.
In addition, about Sh 9 million ($1.3 million), financed by loans from
the Tanzania Housing Bank and other banking institutions in Tanzania,
is expected to be spent on residential housing in the new capital during
the year.
Summary
35.    We have examined the 1974-75 development budget in detail and we
believe that its pattern of sectoral allocations and project content are
sound.
PART V - MANAGING THE MEDIUM TERM
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS PROBLEM
General
36.    The projected size and persistent trend of overall B.O.P. deficits
over 1975-80 suggest that major remedial measures are required in the
structure of the Tanzanian economy. The projected trend is the consequence
of the expected deterioration in the terms of trade and the slow growth
of export volumes. Thus, less relative real resources are expected to
beavailable to sustain the growth of consumption and investment. As
already noted, persistent B.O.P. deficits resulting from the present pattern
of investment, consumption and output would require a level of external
borrowing, which is likely to be increasingly on conventional terms, such
that creditworthiness would soon be exhausted. Continued external borrowing
on conventional terms would inevitably result in external debt management
problems in the 1980s. Reducing the level of consumption absolutely at
present low levels of per capita incomes and consumption is politically
unacceptable. However, the rate of increase of consumption can be moderated.
Even if this is achieved, the resource constraint will be such that there
will not be enough resources to sustain the present rate of increase of
investment. It follows that if the growth rate of GDP is to be maintained
and hopefully increased, then investment will have to be restructured to
become more productive, especially in ways that benefit the B.O.P. The



- 14 -
preferred solution is therefore a judicious blend of demand management
and restructuring of investment in ways that increase the growth of output
despite the limited resources available. This solution seeks to increase
output while moderating the rate of increase of consumption and investment.
Public Investment Policy
37.   As noted in Part IV,the Government has already made substantial
progress in reallocating public sector investment to the directly pro-
ductive sectors of agriculture, industry and mining and has informed the
Bank that it will continue to pursue this objective. This will imply
that investment resources will be available for other sectors. Although
there will be political and institutional difficulties in making these
reallocations (for example, the Government is committed to supply water
to all rural areas in 20 years and these plans will now have to be
rephasec) thie Government is deternined to carry them out.
Agriculture Policy
38.   A second policy area is to improve agricultural production.    The
single most worrying weakness in the economy is the low rate of growth of
agriculture production as reflected in the stagnation of per capita food
output.  While this is a result of a range of problems, there is consensus
on some of the primary contributing factors. Until recently, producer
incentives were dampened by low agricultural producer prices. However, the
Government has responded to this situation by substantially increasing the
prices of the major crops in 1973 and 1974. For example, producer prices were
increased substantially on May 1, 1974, and increased again on November 1,
1974 for the 1974-75 crop season. The November price increases include a
50 percent increase for maize, 23 percent for paddy, 30 percent for wheat,
75 percent for cotton and 20 percent for flue cured tobacco. Corresponding
adjustments have also been made to the controlled retail prices. These
prices are now close to the projected long term world parity. The Government
has informed the Bank of its intention to continue to maintain
prices at levels which provide sufficient incentive to producers. The
increased rural incomes made possible by these higher producer prices will
not, in our judgement, increase consumption to unmanageable levels, and the
foreign exchange gains of increased production would substantially exceed
the foreign exchange costs involved in the increased rural consumption.
39.   There are three other policies affecting producer incomes where the
appropriate action raises great, difficulties.      One is that the structure
of progressive export taxes, largely on "older" traditional crops such as
coffee, are now such that at higher prevailing world prices the producer
receives relatively less than at lower prices. This probably has an adverse
effect on production. However, the short run supply elasticity of coffee
is low, and with a premium on savings, taxing the "windfall" incomes generated
by higher world prices is a legitimate fiscal objective. Another is the
present uniform national producer price policy. Although this policy results



- 15 -
in some misallocation of resources, its modification is a complex subject,
e.g., if transport differentials are not set correctly, internal cross
haulage will occur. It is also a politically sensitive issue in egalitarian
Tanzania. Finally, the rise in the import prices of agriculture inputs such
as fertilizer, has affected the impact of input subsidy policies. However,
input subsidy levels will have to be examined by the Government in the context
of producer price policy and tax policies. The Government has informed the
Bank that it will initiate studies of these complex issues with a view to
taking appropriate action.
40.    A second factor contributing to agricultural stagnation is inadequate
project planning and implementation. For example, the IDA assisted tea
and tobacco projects are far behind original schedules. Part of the problem
is that skilled staff has been dispersed too widely and staff turnover has
been extreme as a result of agency proliferation and government decentralization.
Concentrating limited staff on priority areas and projects and greater stability
of staff tenure are seen as the solutions. The Government has begun to move in
this direction. For example, a team of project implementation experts has
been established in the Ministry of Agriculture. The Government has also
notified the Bank that it will arrange longer tenure for senior staff whose
frequent rotation has disrupted implementation. The Bank Group will
assist the Government's efforts by provision of project planning staff under
the IDA assisted Kigoma project as well as the regular services of the Bank's
Regional Mission in East Africa (RMEA). Furthermore, the Bank's Resident Rep-
resentative in Tanzania is concentrating his attention on this problem.
41.    A third contributing factor to the agricultural production problem is
the inadequacy of distribution systems for production inputs, consumer goods
and the marketing of crops. One problem here is inadequate road transport.
This is due, in part, to the transition to a mixed system of private, coopera-
tive and state truck operators. The Association has agreed to provide exper-
tise to find solutions in the road transport sector under the Highway Maintenance
Project (Credit 507-TA). The Government has informed the Bank that it will
take measures to improve distribution of inputs, consumer goods, and marketing
of crops. These measures are expected to include improvements in truck
maintenance, use of army trucks in supply emergencies, improvement of credit
facilitiesfor private truckers, and measures to improve cooperative marketing
which is presently seriously inadequate in a number of respects.
42.    Another contributing factor to the agricultural problem is that when
villagization under ujamaa is poorly planned and implemented,as has happened
on occasion, this disrupts agricultural production for at least one season, if
not longer.   The Government decided to increase rapidly the pace of villagiza-
tion in 1974 and, although the statistics are unreliable, it appears that
about two million persons were resettled during the year. It is also apparent
that many of these moves were poorly planned and that some adverse effect on
agricultural production in 1975 can be expected. In the emergency facing
Tanzania, the planning and implementation of villagization will have to be
improved to minimize the short run negative effects on production. The Govern-
ment and TANU party recognize this, and the Central Committee of the Party is
currently conducting an inquiry into the problems of ujamaa implementation. Mean-
while, the Government has informed the Bank that villagization plans will con-
tinue to be kept under constant review and their implementation will be related
to the availability of suitable land, competent staff, adequate plans and
supply of production inputs. When farmers are resettled within established cash
crop areas, villagization will be implemented in ways not to disrupt production.



- 16 -
Industry and Mining
43. In the area of industry and mining, improvement in the productivity
of existing state manufacturing enterprises is very important. These are
now largely insulated from market incentives by the system of price, import
and marketing controls. The Government is currently identifying possible
improvements to the present incentive systems for managers and workers, to
more effectivelv relate bonuses to increased productivity. The recent Bank
industry/mining sector mission found cases where the export/domestic price
ratio was adverse to exports. Furthermore, incentives for the export of manu-
factured goods are needed and the Government has indicated to the Bank that
it intends ts initiate appropriate studies. The development of selected
industrial and mining ventures will have a substantial impact on the B.O.P.
outlook. The manufacture of textiles, sisal, cashew and cement, based on
local raw materials, for all of which projects are being prepared or are in
the early stages of implementation, are examples of industries with expansion
potential. Phosphate, soda ash, rare metals from beach sands, iron ore and
coal, and natural gas are examples of mineral development possibilities. The
economic potential of these industrial and mining possibilities are so impor-
tant that the Government has decided that scarce skilled manpower and finance
will be concentrated on the processing of these projects. The Bank is now
exploring the feasibility of an IDA credit to assist in project preparation
in these sectors.
Private Consumption
44. It has already been emphasized that measures to slow down the rate of
growth of private consumption will be required to deal with the projected
B.O.P. problem. The Government has already introduced and intends to main-
tain a wage and salary freeze although this will be increasingly difficult to
maintain if inflationary pressures persist, and it is difficult to insulate
the economy from inflation from the import side.    The Government is also
taxing unsatisfied demand where consumer goods are in short supply as is now
the case for several basic items such as textiles and beer. The recently
announced increased prices (para. 38 above) will also modify the
growth in private consumption. Finally, state enterprise product prices will
need to be adjusted where inflation is raising costs if state enterprise
savings are to be maintained. This will be difficult because higher prices
conflict with the objective of holding down the cost of living for the poor.
Government Consumption
45. The Government is having to examine the rate of growth of its own
expenditure, particularly of non-development recurrent expenditure. A decline
in the rate of increase of investment that generates high levels of recurrent
expencitures, tor example in the social sectors, would automatically have
a favorable effect on Government consumption. While increases in the rate of
taxation are unlikely to be possible given the present high ratio of tax revenue
to monetary GDP, it may be feasible to devise direct or indirect methods for
collecting user charges for sertain social services, such as rural water, at
present supplied free of charge. The Government has informed the Bank that it
will take further measures to slow the rate of growth of Government consumption
and to curtail non-development recurrent expenditure.



- 17 -
Summary
46.    The policy measures outlined above can be expected to reduce the B.O.P.
gap to manageable levels, without undue damage to the development effort,
if implemented effectively and as quickly as possible. The Government
recognizes the need for action along these lines. Many of these policy
changes have already been introduced and will be developed further in the
formulation of the 1975-76 development budget and the new Five Year Develop-
ment Plan both scheduled to begin July 1, 1975. Furthermore, in the agri-
cultural sector future public investment and staff will be concentrated
in areas of highest productive potential. In this context, special measures
will be devoted to a national food production program, and within this
program, a special program to increase maize production.
PART VI - TUE PROGRAM LOAN
47.    The above analysis suggests that Tanzania is facing very difficult and
unexpected problems in the pursuit of its development objectives. The
B.O.P. has come under severe strain because of the unforeseen scale
of import price inflation and an extraordinary level of food
imports brought about by the drought and by stagnant agriculture which
has also adversely effected export volumes. Furthermore, the B.O.P.
problem is likely to persist through the 1970s because of the anticipated
decline in terms of trade and an expected slow growth in export volumes.
The Government has taken measures to curtail petroleum and non-essential
imports, to prune recurrent budget expenditures, to impose a public sector
wage and salary freeze and to activate the agricultural sector by
increasing producer prices.    Despite this, a B.O.P. deficit in 1975 of
about $142 million is projected after allowing for a substantial increase
in disbursements from the pipeline of existing    projects.   The
time it would take to commit and disburse new project loans makes it
impossible for external landers to assist in any immediately effective
manner through more project assistance.    Without additional quick disbursing
external assistance, it will be impossible to sustain the ongoing investment
program. This program deserves support in order to maintain Tanzania's
development effort at a reasonabie level.     Additional quick disbursing
assistance will give the Government time to implement policy changes to
cope with the medium term B.O.P. program. Tanzania has therefore requested
a program loan of $30 million from the Bank.
48.    A special economic appraisal mission which visited Tanzania in
September examined the Government's program of development policies and
investment outlays as outlined in Parts IV and V. Another mission visited
Tanzania in November, following agreement between the International Monetary
Fund and Tanzania on a standby, to negotiate the proposed program loan;
it held detailed discussions with the Government on the major economic and
financial policy changes required for dealing with the medium term B.O.P. problem
while promoting the growth of the economy and the Government's other develop-
ment objectives. The main elements of these policy changes are outlined in
Part V and were accepted by the Government. The implementation of these
policies are expected to have a far-reaching impact on development and the
B.O.P. problem.
49.    Considering the magnitude of the B.O.P. problem in 1975, and its unique
and unexpected character, the support we can provide to the investment program,
and the steps the Government has already taken and the further steps we are
confident it will take in the near future, there is ample justification for a
program loan of $30 million. Preliminary contacts made by the Tanzanian authorities
and Bank staff with other external lenders, including the IMF, indicates that there



- 18 -
is a reasonable chance that the balance of the 1975 deficit of $142 million
will be covered from these other sources. However, if these alternative sources
of external finance prove to be inadequate, the Tanzanian authorities may
approach the Bank for a second program loan in the course of 1975. I am satis-
fied that the loan proposal meets the criteria for program loans spelled out
in my memorandum to the Executive Directors of December 15, 1970 on the
Pearson Commission recommendation concerning program lending, namely:
(a) Tanzania has an ongoing development program and
has taken and intends to take supporting economic
and financial policies which provide a satisfactory
basis for external assistance;
(b) The needed transfer of resources from external
lenders in support of the ongoing development program
cannot be achieved effectively and expeditiously by
the financing of investment projects, including
justifiable local currency expenditures; and
(c) Other external sources are not available to Tanzania
to fill the gap on terms appropriate to Tanzania's
economic conditions.
50.    A part of the loan proceeds would be used for private sector imports,
which account for about 40 percent of the total in Tanzania; procurement
in respect of these would be subject to normal commercial practices.    The
remainder of the loan proceeds would be used for parastatal and government
imports.  The parastatal sector follows normal commeicial procurement
practices using competitive bidding where appropriate. In respect of
imports made by government departments the procurement regulations of
the Central Tender Board apply. For overseas procurement, these require
advertisement in the Government Gazette, in the local press and that
notices be sent to local embassies. Practically all countries from which
prospective suppliers are likely to be interested are represented by
missions in Tanzania. Adequate time, usually at least six weeks, must be
given for prospective suppliers to prepare and subrit tenders.    The
procedures ensure full opportunity for participation by foreign suppliers.
The bids are evaluated on the basis of prescribed procedures and are
awarded to the lowest evaluLated bidder. The Government's procedures are
irn accordance with the Bank Groups procurement guidelines. As a check,
particularly on the private and parastatal sectors, the Dank of Tanzaria
requires that, with a few exceptions, all imports be subject to cormipulsory
quality and quantity inspection and price comparisor, by the General Super-
intendence Company, Switzerland, before shipment is effected.    General
Superintendence is reqcuired to ascertain whether f.o.b. prices invoicec
correspond, within reasonable limits, with the generally prevailing export
prices.  The above procedures are generally sound and ensure econoaic
procurement cf goods.
51.    Foreign exchange provided under the loan would be utilized for essen-
tial imports of capital equipment, intermediate goods and raw materials for
the public and private sectors. No disbursements would be made for food, fuel,
fertilizers or consumer goods. Tanzania would be reimbursed for foreign
exchange expenditure on eligible imports on the basis of import documents and
evidence of payment submitted to the Bank. Appropriate arrangements to



- 19 -
this effect have been agreed between the Bank and the Borrower. In
order to simplify the procedures, individual import expenditures of less
than $500 would not be eligible for reimbursement. No disbursements
would be made for imports for which other sources of foreign financing
have been secured (Section 2(e), Schedule I, draft Loan Agreement). It
is expected that the proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed by
the end of June 1975.
52.    The Bank of Tanzania would open a special project account in
the name of the Government, to which the Tanzania shilling equivalent
of the imports financed under the project will be credited. The
Government would withdraw funds from the project account to cover expen-
ditures under the 1974-75 Government development budget for each of
the following votes: Prime Minister and Second Vice President's Office,
(regional and rural development), Agriculture, Education, Commerce and
Industries, Communications and Works, Lands, Housing and Urban Development,
Finance, Health, Water Development and Power, and Natural Resources and
Tourism (Schedule 4, draft Loan Agreement), Withdrawals from the project
account would be made by the Government periodically for the aforementioned
purposes, after the Bank has had an opportunity to review withdrawal proposals.
The use of the counterpart funds in financing investments would be limited to
those expenditures which are not otherwise financed by external sources.
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.    The draft Loan Agreement between the United Republic of Tanzania
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of
a resolution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
54.    I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VIII - RECOMMENDATION
I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 25, 1974






o~~ ciTh  <I -&tZAA IN  Jl u-I   4   2t1 1.j'I5e                  I~           Co
4-4 ~ ~ ~ ~ I   ~ C~ >:   '--  R~.(04r.'~                                        h t~00           0
ZI  M K0 I Ot    0 A   1 (   000 0 ' . .\O, . k A
L44                                                       -'           1:a'~~~~~~0<s~~  *0  ,,  000      -,~A  -
o  ..  -  .~J1J~J~01                       -o,,     ci               .oooo   0    2  9-9t> >..~4-  0
ti                              k~~~~~~~~~~~~0 0   0 a - .   1-10 0 o C o   o ,5 
-10.  0 .   -.o-'  - o > 0   0 0-                  
.0   -  0  o-r--o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -   .-,  ..   ~~~~~~~~~~~~  o.oo.   -o  00~~~~~~~~R g 
o                                   >a00.~~~~~~~~~ItIf Is  SNI



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 7
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of U.S. dollars)
Actuadl                       Projected             19 64-  19 67 -   19 70 -   19723 -  1970     1971    1972
1970      1971     1972        194       975     1976      1969     1972     1973      1976-                       -
NATIONAL ACCOIINTS                                                                  _          __
3-Year Average at 1967- 1969 Prices & Exchange hates         Average. Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of GOT
Gross Domestic Product           1214.1     1275.4   1347.7      1494.7    1562.0  1632.1       6.1     4.9       5.6     4.5       100.0   100.9    103.6
Gains from Terms of Trade)      -60.2      - 10.6   - 47.0      - 21.5   - 32.3   - 49.0
Gross Domestic Income            1213.9     126-4.6  1-295.7     14732     159.7   1531         5.0     45        5.1     4.0       10.     100      100
Import (lncl. lIFS)               366.6      395.1    365.7       413.6    400.3    389.5      6.7      6.8       1.4     0.6        30.2    31.2     28.2
Exports   (import casacity)  302~O_.5  310. 1 306.0      275.2     787.2   379.        2.1     3.6       0.7     2.0        25.0     24.6    73.6
Resource Gap                       63.1       84.5     59.7       138.4    113.1     60.3                                           5.2       -6.7     4.6
Consumption Expenditures         1022.8     1061.6   1060.0      1288.3    1315.8  1312.4       5.8     4.8      4.7      3.8        64.3    84.0     81.8
Investment   ". (in.. stocks)     254.3     387.6     295.4       323.3    327.0    331.0      9.1      6.4      6.7      2.4       30.9     22.7     22.8
Dom-stic Sav-ings                 191.1      203.1    235.7       184.9    213.9    270.7       1.4     2.7      7.3      4.7        15.7    16.1     16.2
National1 Savings                 198.0      306.6    235.3       1809     207.3    261.3       3.1     3.4       4.9     4.5        16.3    16.4     16.7
MERPCHAND)ISE TRADE                         Annual Data at Cu,rrnt Plrices1 9 66. 72                       197 0-73     197 3- 76  As Percent of Total.
Imports                                                                      5
Capital goods                    94.2      117.0    125.2       137.2     138.0   149.5        13.5        14.0         7.4        29.6    30.7     31.0
Interme.diate goods (emtfuels) 101.7       132.1    154.4       210.6    212.1    226.6       13.5         21.5         7.6       31.9     34.6     38.2
Fuels and related materials      27.0       35.8     41.3       139.4    145.0    161.6        16.3        27.7         42.0        6.5     9.4     10.2
o f which:  Petroleume        (27.0)     (35.8)   (41.3)     (139.4)  (145.0) (161.8)       (16.3)      (27.7)       (42.0)      (9.5)   (9.4)   (10.2)
Cvnsu.mpt,ion gosd.s             95.5       96.6     82.9       225.3    188.0     84.8         1.0         1.4         -5.7       30.0    25.3     20.5
Total March. 1aports (elf)      31.         81.5    403.8       712.5    631      627           87         1.            9.3      100.0   100.0    100.0
Exports!7
Primary prodtucts (excl. fuels)  183.1     163.1    208.6       229.5    332 .7   337.4        0.6         13.2          6.2       77.4    75.4     7 2 .3
Pades and related materials    )                                   )
of swhich:  Petroleum        ) 53.4     ) 59.8     30.7        42.0     43.7     48.8      (14.5        ) 9.7         22.5    ) 22.6   ) 24.6     10.6
Manofactured goods             )          )__        49.1        54.0     59.4     65.4      ))6.6                               )___)17.0
Total Mereh. Broorts (fob)      236tT      24 2.6   288.4       42 5.5   435.8    4517        _JT.7        1             T73      100.0   10-0.0   T16-0
Tourism and Boer.,,  Traue        .         ..       .
Merchandise Trade lIndices                    Average 1967-69- 100
Export Price Index              100.6     102.0     112.6       174.2    170.1    172.0
Import Price Index               99.0     103.5     129.9       187.8    189.2    196.5
Terms of Trade Index            101.6       98.5     86.7        92.7     89.9     87.0
Exports Volume loden.           126.0      127.0    132.0       135.3    143.0    149.6
VALUE A.DD.D BY SECTOR             Annual. Data at 1966    Prices and Exchange Eaten            Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
1964-69 1965-70 1966-71 1967-72
Agriculture                     446.5     442.7     471.2                                     3.3      4.4     1.4      2.6       40.0     38.1     38.5
Industry and finiing            179 .2    198.0     202.7                                     9.3      8.3     7 .2     5.0       16.0     17.0     16.5
Service                         691.1     522.0     551.3                                     7.1      7.6     7.0      6.1       44.0     44..9..2  45AI..2
Total                          1116.8    1162.7    1255.3                                     5 .7     6.3     4.7      4.5      102.0    100.0    102 0
PUBLIC FINANCE                   Annual 1Dana at Cemen.t Prices                                              19 67 - 72              As Percent of GC
Cen`tral Ouve`rnmant)                                                                                        ___
Current Receipts                235.6     260.3     306.3                                                   14.0                  19.2     20.6    22.0
Current Expenditures            228.4     249.3     306.6                                                   15.4                  16.6     19.7     23.0
Budgetary Savings                 7 .2     11.0      -0.3                                                                          0.6      0.9     --
Other Pablic Sector             39.0       57.0      75.0                                                   25.0                   3.7      4.5      5.6
Putlic Sector Tnvestment       163.0      233.0    233.0                                                    21.0                  13.3     16.4    17.5
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                    Actual        Preti.;.
As % Total Current Expend.)           Ff1971   FY1972    FY1973
Education                               21.1     17.5      18.6
Other Social Services                                      10.3
Agriculture                             31.5     27.3       12.5
Other Economic Services)                       )           15.4
Adsainiatraticn and Defenne             30.5     32.0       9.54/
Otber                                   16.9     23.2      33.7
Total Current Expenditures             100.0    100.0     100.0
SEL.ECTED INDICATORS                               1960-      1965-    1970-    1973-
(Calculated from   -year averaged data)            1.965      1970     1975    1978
Average TCOIR                                                 2.9       4.3     4.3
ImPort Elasticity                                             1.6       0.4     0.3
Marginal Domestic Savings Sale                                o.i       0.2     0.25
Marginal National Savin-gs Rate                               0.2       0.0     0.2
L.ABOR FORCE AND                                Total Labor Force                                Value Added Per. Worker (in current priecs)
OUTPUJT PER WJORKIER              In Millions         % of Total                            in UlSDollars       Percent of Average
1971               1971                                    197 1                  1971
Agriculture                                 5.3                91                                        98                    43
Industry                                    0.0                  2                                     1590                   694
Service                                     0.4                  7                                     2170                   948
Total                                        5.TS0                                                      7
not applicable         -nml or negligible
not available        --less than) half the
smallest unit shown
1/ Includes re-exports, unclassified domestic exponts and adjustmensa for time, valee and coverage                                 November 18, 1974
E/ Defense only



HAIANCE OF PAYKENTS1 EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEFT
7amaunts in millims of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                        Estimated                                    rojected                                  Crowth Rate
1969        1970        1971        1972          1973         1974        19751_ 96               1977        1978        1979        1969-1979
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                    276.8       308.8       333.1       397.5         479.8        516.9       543.4       646.8       713.0       802.7       915.6          13.0
pp7ort49{7cl. NFS)                     288.4       373.1       449.8       476.1         591.1        776.9       757.4       765.3       859.8       964.2      1079.3          14.0
Resource B3alance (X-M)                -11.6       -64.3      -116.7       -78.6        -111.3       -260.0      -214.0      -118.5      -146.8      -161.5      -163.7
Interest (net)                          -2.9         3.5         3.0         34           -5-9         -7.3       -13.6       -21.1       -22.6       -32.0       -49.7         )33.0
Direct Investment Income              )           )           )           )               -1.5         -1.5       - 1.5       - 1.5       -1.5        -1.5        -1.5
Workers' Remittance                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0           0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0            -
Current Transfers (nt)                   8.6        12.4         9.3        -1.7           0.7         14.0         7.0         7.7         8.5         9.3        10.2           1.7
Balance on Curren  Accounts             -5.9       -55.4      -110.4       -83.7        -118.        -7    r     -22r        -13.        -162.       -    1rr -Tr
Private Direct Investmernt               nil         nil         nil         nil           nil          nil         nil         nil         nil         nil         nil           -
Official Capital Grants                 10.0        12.0        14.0        16.0          18.0         20.0        21.5        23.1        24.8        26.7        28.7           11.0
Public M6ILT Loans
Disbursements                         44.0        49.1        49.8       126.6         154.2        133.0        82.6        83.2        91.5       100.6       110.7           9.7
-Repay r.nts                           -9.9        -9.7       -11.9       -15.4         -13.2        -14.0       -14.0       -14.0       -14.0       -14.5       -15.0           4.3
Net Disbursermnts                       34T1        39i4 37.9              111.2         141.0        n5 Tzr 8            6   .1 9 5 .  7                                        10.8
Other M&LT Loans
Disbursements
-Repayments                      0.0         0.0         0.0         :.           ..           ..          ...         ..
NRetDisbursements                          rr                      rr                                  1T.T1                 . 1   3   .2 T1rr         -5.6 17r
Actuml                     Estimated
Capital Transactions n.e.i.            -21.0       -52.0       -15.0        28.2          -6.6                                      199        1970      1971      192         1973
Change in Net Reserves                    2.8      -15.3       - 4.7        60.2          27.7        DE;3T AND DEFT SERVICE1/
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed   176.4     220.2     262.5     344.5       424.6
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants & Grant-like                                                                            Interest on Public Debt       6.1        6.2       6.6       6.9         8.7
Repayments on Public Debt      9.9       9.7      11.9      29.0        11.5
FPublic M&LT Loans                                                                                      Total Public Debt Service     16.0      15.9      18.5      35.8        20.2
IBRD                                   7.0        30.0          -            -             -          Other Debt Service (net)       -         -          -         -           -
IDA                                   20.5         9.0        9.8         10.8          28.8          Total Debt Service (net)       -
Other                                    -           -          -            -             -
Other Multi-lateral                      -           -          -          3.3           2.0        Burden on Export Eirnings (%)
Governments                           48.8       232.4       26.3         49.3          94.9
Suppliers                                -         0.3          -            -             -          Public Debt Service            5.8       5.2       5.6       9.0         4.2
Financial Institutions                 3.2         3.0          _            _             _          Total Debt Service             5.8       5.2       5.6       9.0         4.2
Bonds                                    -           -          -                                    TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.        5.1        4.8       5.1       7.7         3.0
Public Loans n.e.i.                   16.9         2.2        0.8
Total Public W   =LT Loans                                                                            Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Dobt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1972                    Int. as % Prior Year DO&D      65 4.2    3.5       3.0       2.6         2.5
ETERN9AL DEBT                                 Disbursed Onl,y             Percent                        Amsort. as % Prior Year DO8,D  6.8       5.5       5.4      11.0         3.3
World Bank                                            0                    r
IDA                                               49.1                    14.2                        IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other MIltilateral                                  2.5                     0.7                         "  as % Public Debt O&D        1.4       1.7       4.1       7.6         7.4
Governments                                       213.5                   62.0                          "  as % Public Debt Service2/ 0.0        0.6       1.6       2.2        10.0
Suppliers                                          0.3                     0.1
Financial Institutions                             24.2                     7.0                       IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                             10.1                     2.9                         " as % Public Debt O&D         14.2      15.4      16.1      15.6        13.7
Public Debts n.e.i                                20.9                      6.1                           as % Public Debt Service_/   0.6       0.6       1.1       1.1         1.9
Total Public M14&T Debt                           344.6                   100.0
Other M&lT Debts
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                                 e  staff estimate                    1/ Not including Tanzania's share in EAC (debt)
not available                                                  - nil or negligible                  2/ IBRD/IDA debt service as 7 of total public debt service
... not available separately                                       --  less than half the
but included in total                                             smallest unit shown
November 18, 1974



TANZANIA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(Current US$ Millions)
ACTUAL                                                           PROJECTED
1972           1973          1974           1975          1976           1977          1978           1979          1980
CURRENT ACCOUNT
Exports (f.o.b.)                    288.4         332.7          425.5         435.8          451.6         474.7          506.7         550.0          600.9
Imports (c.i.f.)                   403.8          477.1          712.5         683.1          622.7         678.6          738.0         804.8          877.2
Trade Balance                      -115.4        -144.3         -287.0        -247.3         -171.1        -203.9         -231.3        -254.8         -276.3
Net Services                         35.8          25.6           18.2          18.2           30.0          33.0           36.3           39.9          43.9
Net Transfers                      -  4.2           0.7           14.0           7.0            7.7           8.5            9.3           10.2          11.3
Current Account Balance            - 83.7        -118.0         -254.8        -222.1         -133.4        -162.4         -185.7        -204.7         -221.1
CAPITAL ACCOUNT
Govt. M&LT Loans
Tazara                             94.6         108.5           70.0           7.0              -             -              -              -             -
Other                              32.0          45.7           63.0          75.6           83.2          91.5          100.6         110.7          121.8
Less Repayments                 - 15.4         - 13.2         - 14.0        - 14.0         - 14.0        - 14.0         - 14.5        - 15.0         - 15.5
Net Inflow                        111.2         141.0          119.0          68.6           69.2          77.5           86.1          95.7          106.3
Parastatal M&LT (Net)                 6.2           9.8            9.7          10.6           11.7           12.9          14.1           15.6          17.1
Private M&LT                       -  1.7           1.6            1.5            1.5           1.5           1.5            1.5            1.5           1.5
Govt. Compensation Pints.          -  5.7        -  5.1         -  5.0        -   5.0        -  5.0        -  5.0         -  5.0         -  5.0        -  5.0
Other Capital Movements               7.2        - 17.8         - 12.6        - 14.0              -              -             -              -
Errors and Omissions                 21.7          19.1           18.8           18.8             -              -             -              -             -
Capital Acct. Balance               139.0         148.5          131.4          80.5           77.4          86.9           96.7          107.8         119.9
Special Transactions                  5.0        -  2.8           34.4*             -             -              -             -              -             -
Net Change in Reserves            + 60.2         + 27.2         - 89.0        -141.6         - 56.0        - 75.5         - 89.0         - 96.9        -101.2
Net Reserves (IFS)                  110.1         145.5           56.5              -             -              -             -              -             -
*  IMF 1st Credit Tranche & Special Oil Facility                                                                                                                a)
asz
eDm
Eastern Africa Region
October 17, 1974



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 7
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS PROJECTIONS
1.    Exports (f.o.b.) - staff estimates.
2.    Imports (c.i.f.) - staff estimates.
3.    Net Services - 1972 and 1973 actuals.    1974 and 1975 from IMF/Bank of
Tanzania. For 1976 assume 10% growth + addition of US$10 m of earnings
from Tazara. Thereafter 10% p.a. growth for total.
4.    Net Transfers - 1972 and 1973 actuals.    1974 and 1975 from IMF/Bank of
Tanzania. For 1976 and beyond, 10% p.a. growth assumed.
5.    Govt. M&LT Loans -
Tazara - 1972 and 1973 actuals. 1974 from IMF/Bank of Tanzania.
For 1975, estimate of $7.0 m is based on twice cost of imported
inputs estimated for 1975, on assumption that local costs are
equal to import costs. (In 1974, the estimate of capital goods
Tazara imports = approx. 1/2 of the $70 m capital inflow in 1974.)
Other - 1972 and 1973 actuals. 1974 and 1975 from IMF/Bank of
Tanzania. For 1976 and beyond, 10% p.a. growth assumed.
Repayments - 1972 and 1973 actuals. 1974 and 1975 from IMF/Bank
of Tanzania. For 1976 and 1977 no increase assumed lag - then
slight increase.
6.    Parastatal M&LT - 1972 and 1973 actuals.    1974 and 1975 from IMF/
Bank of Tanzania. Thereafter, 10% p.a. growth assumed.
7.    Private M&LT - actuals 1972 and 1973.    IMF/Bank of Tanzania for 1974
and 1975. Thereafter assumed level.
8.    Govt. Compensation Pmts. -    1972 and 1973 actuals.   1974 and 1975 IMF/
Bank of Tanzania. Thereafter assumed level.
9.    Other Capital Movements, Errors & Omissions - 1972 and 1973 actuals.
1974 and 1975 IMF/Bank of Tanzania. Thereafter omitted since largely
offsetting items in recent years.
10.   Special Transactions - 1974 is IMF first credit tranche & special
oil facility.



Tanzania Government Development Expenditures                                  Tanzania Public Sector
1970/71 - 1974/75                                                   Investment Program   3/ 4/
1970/71 i/          1971/72 1'          1972/73 I/          1973/74 2/           1974/75 3/              1974/75
Sh Mill.     _      Sh Mill.     _      Sh Mill.     %      Sh Mill.     %       Sh Mill.     %           Sh Mill.    7,
Directly Productive                                     26.7                 10.3                29.9                23.3                36.5                    44.2
Agriculture                                   130      15.8        55       7.9       170      22.6       225      16.2       548      25.2            880     31.8 8/
Commerce, Industry & Mining                    90     10.9         17       2.4        55       7.3        98       7.1       245      11.3            341     12.4
Economic Infrastructure                                 47.5                 55.6                43.8                45.8                37.1                    34.5
Water                                          62       7.4        47       6.6        65       8.7       165      11.8       217      10.0            220       7.9
Power                                          10      1.2         88      12.4        80      10.7       210      15.1       216       9.9            279     10.1
Works & Communications                        233      28.2       181      25.6       129      17.2       187      13.4        210      9.7            216       7.8
Housing & Urban Development                    42       5.2        17       2.4         9       1.2        41       3.0        52       2.4            126       4.6
Natural Resources & Tourism                    46       5.5        61       8.6        45       6.0        35       2.5         50      2.3             52       1.9
Capital Development                            -                   -                   -                   -                    23      1.1             23       0.9
Other Regional Infrastructure                  -                   -                   -                   -                    36      1.7             36       1.3
Social Infrastructure                                     7.7                 6.8                 7.5                 8.9                 9.0                      7.6
Education - Culture & Youth                    46       5.5        37       5.2       43        5.6        70       5.1        110      5.1            123       4.4
Health                                         17       2.1         4       0.6        12       1.6        50       3.6        78       3.6             81       2.9
Labor                                           1        .1         7       1.0        2        0.3          3      0.2          9      0.3              9       0.3
Other                                                    18.1                27.3                18.8                22.0                17.4                     13.7
Regional Administration & Planning 5/          39      4.7         41       5.8         18      2.4        69       5.0         87      4.0             87       3.1
Central Administration & Planning              10       1.2        15       2.1         14      1.9         18      1.3         22      1.0             22       0.8
Information & Broadcasting                     -                    3       0.4         3       0.4         3       0.2        16       0.7             17       0.6
Security 6/                                   101      12.2       134      19.0       105      14.1       210      15.5        256     11.7            256       9.2
Total                                           827     100         707     100          750    100        1384     100         2175    100             2768     100
aq
Tanzania - Zambia Railway 7/                      2                 148                  180                 211                  25                      25
829   855           930                1595                2200                     2793                   o H
1/  Actual Expenditures                                   5/ licluding the Rural Development Fund
2/  Provisional Actual Expenditures                       6/  Defense, National, Service, Home Affairs, Judiciary
3/  Estimates                                             7/  Local Costs only (these costs were entirely financed by a Chinese Commodity Credit)
4/  Budgetary plus extra budgetary expeniditures          8/  Includes tea, meat, sugar and cashew processitng



ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
Tanzania: Government Transactions; Central
Government and Regions, 1972/73-1974/75
(In millions of Tanzania shillings)
1972/73             1973/74             1974/75
Unaudited          Provisional            Budget
Actual                                Estimates
Current Revenue                        2,328               3,080               3,664
Current Expenditure                    2,240               2,766               3,385
Current Surplus                         88                 314                 279
Development Expenditure                  930               1,595               2,200
Overall Deficit                       -842              -1,281              -1,921
Financing
Net Foreign Loans & Grants             485                 637               1,147
Net Domestic Borrowing                 324                 493                 513
of which:  banks                     -2                 301                 300
Other                                   33                 151                 261
Sources: Tanzania, Financial Statement and Revenue Estimates (1974/75); Estimates
of Public Expenditure, Ministerial Development Expenditure, and Regional Development
Expenditure (1974/75); Estimates of Public Expenditure, Consolidated Fund Services,
and Supply Votes (1974/75); and data provided by the Tanzanian authorities.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
A. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA 1/
1.     Tanzania has received a total of 19 IDA credits and six Bank
loans amounting to $246.3 million. Our lending program, reflecting the
emphasis the Tanzanian Government is placing on agricultural develop-
ment, has increasingly focused on directly productive activities in
the rural sector. Up to the end of FY72, 10 out of 14 loans and credits
had been made for infrastructure. All but one of the nine loans to
the East African Community Organizations, of which Tanzania is a beneficiary
and co-guarantor, have been extended for improvements in transportation and
communications. However, the approval by the Executive Directors of the
Flue-Cured Tobacco Project (Credit No. 217-TA), in October 1970 opened a
new phase in our lending for more directly productive activities. The
Smallholder Tea Development Project (Credit No. 287-TA) and a Second Live-
stock Project (Credit No. 382-TA) were approved in March 1972 and in
April 1973, respectively. A Cotton Development Project (Credit No. 454-TA),
a Cashewnut Development Project (Loan No. 1014-TA), a Sugar Development
Project (Loan No. 1041-TA and Credit No. 513-TA) and the Kigoma Integrated
Rural Development Project (Credit No. 508-TA) were approved earlier this
year. A proposed dairy project has recently been appraised and a second
rural development project, a forestry project and a fisheries project are
under preparation.
2.     Tanzania is developing an institutional structure, stressing greater
regionalization and development of ujamaa villages, designed to promote
and respond to development initiatives. These institutions are still in
their formative stages, and related organizational and staffing difficulties
have sometimes resulted in the project delays and the slow rates of dis-
bursement referred to in Part D of this Annex. Tanzania's education and
training programs are expected to solve the manpower problem in the longer
run, but meanwhile there will continue to be a need for technical assistance
in planning and implementation if the difficulties in executing projects
are to be overcome. The Government has taken steps to speed up recruitment
of needed expatriate technical expertise and instituted a regular high
level review for all externally aided projects. The Bank's Resident Repre-
sentative is giving special attention to these problems and in addition,
we hope to intensify, through our supervision missions, assistance in
project implementation. As a result of these efforts, it is expected that
project implementation should now improve.
3.     Our Regional Mission in Eastern Africa was involved in the prepara-
tion of six projects in the agricultural sector. Our capacity to provide
such assistance has proved to be particularly valuable in a country where
project preparation capacity is, and for some time will be, limited. We
are also exploring with the Government how assistance of this kind can be
strengthened and best fitted to Tanzania. Through participation in their
1/ As of September 30, 1974



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
projects we have supported Tanzania's new development institutions at
an early stage. Our supervision of the projects has resulted in bringing
to light, earlier than might have happened otherwise, that some of these
institutions are facing significant difficulty in executing the projects
they have undertaken. Because of our involvement, we have been able to
help the Government in its consideration of how to overcome this problem
whose solution is fundamental to rapid development.
4.     The urban Sites and Services Project (Credit No. 495-TA) approved
in July 1974 marked the Bank Group's first lending to Tanzania for urban
development. The Credit for the Tanzania Investment Bank (Credit No. 460-TA)
approved in February 1974 was the Bank Group's first lending in the indus-
trial sector in Tanzania. A proposed project for textile development has
just been appraised and a project for the development of an industrial
estate is presently under preparation. Other projects outside the agri-
cultural sector include a highway maintenance project (Credit No. 507-TA)
which was approved on August 6, 1974. A water supply project, the second
phase power of the Kidatu Power Project (Loan No. 715-TA) and a further
education project are under preparation.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS AT September 30, 1974
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.     Year     Borrower     Purpose                               Bank          Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                          75.0
638 EA 1969      EAHC         Harbours                               35.0             8.9
674 EA 1970      EARC         Railwaya                               42.4            19.5
675 EA  1970     EAPTC        Telecommunications                     10.4             o.6
843 EA 1972      EADB         Development Finance                     8.0             7.7
865 EA  1972     EAHC         Harbors                                26.5            22.0
914 EA  1973     EAPTC        Telecommunications                     32.5            25.9
Total                                                       229.8            84.6
of which has been repaid                                   27.6
Total now outstanding                                       202.2
Amount sold                   24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4                             0
Total now held by Bank                                      202.2
Total undisbursed                                            84.6



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
G. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
as at September 30, 1974
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
No.        Year     Borrower     Purpose                              Bank     IDA  Undisbursed
One loan and six credits fully disbursed                               5.2      43.o
586 TA     1969     Tanzania     Roads                                 7.0               1.9
149 TA     1969     Tanzania     Bducation                                       5.0     1.4
217 TA     1970     Tanzania     Tobacco                                         9.0     7.7
715 TA     1970     TANESCO      Power                                30.0                .2
715-2 TA   1974     TANESCO      Power                                 5.0               5.0
232 TA     1971     Tanzania     Education                                       3.3     2.8
265 TA     1972     Tanzania     Roads                                           6.5     5.7
287 TA     1972     Tanzania     Smallholder Tea                                10.8     7.9
371 TA     1973     Tanzania     Education                                      10.3    10.2
382 TA     1973     Tanzania     Livestock                                      18.5    18.4
454 TA     1974     Tanzania     Cotton                                         17.5    17.5
460 TA     1974     Tanzania     Tanzania Investment Bank                        6.o     6.o
1014 TA    1974     Tanzania     Cashewnut                            21.0              21.0
495 TA     1975     Tanzania     Sites and Services                              8.5     8.5
507 TA     1975     Tanzania     Highway Maintenance                            10.2    10.2
508 TA     1975     Tanzania     Rural Development                              10.0    100
513 TA     1975     Tanzania     Sugar                                           9.0     9.0
lo4i TA    1975     Tanzania     Sugar                                 9.0               9.0
Total                                                      77.2     167.6   152.4
of which has been repaid                                  0.7       0.2
Total now outstanding                                      76.5     167.4



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
Bank     IDA Undisbursed
Amount sold                     .1
of which has been repaid      .1                          0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                            76.5
Total undisbursed                                         37.1     115.4



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
D. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of September 30, 1974)
There are currently 16 projects under execution.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Credit No. 217-TA - Tobacco Project: $9.0 million Credit of October 9,
1970; Closing Date - September 30, 1976
As a result of the Tanzania Government's intention to complete its
villagization program by 1976, the process has been accelerated and a total
of about 7,200 families have been moved to villages in the tobacco complexes,
bringing the number of project farmers to 10,000. As a result of these
vigorous efforts, it is now likely that the appraisal target of 15,000 farmers
will be reached by 1975. Strict measures to enforce minimum tobacco acreages
per family will contribute to increased tobacco production. However, yields
per hectare and quality of leaf have been below anticipated levels. Improve-
ments are required to strengthen the extension and cooperative services.
Provision of water supplies and social infrastructure is progressing well. A
new Financial Controller assumed his duties in September.
Creidt No. 287-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: $10.8 million Credit of
March 3, 1972; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
This project has experienced serious management problems both at
headquarters and in the field which have largely contributed to the short-
fall in planting achievements, currently 45% of target. Insufficient and poor
quality field supervision with inadequate control and guidance from headquarters
have resulted in poor husbandry practices, low yields and poor quality of leaf
produced. Of the four tea factories established or improved under the project,
only one is performing satisfactorily. While the building of project roads
in two areas is proceeding satisfactorily, the start of works has slipped in
the two other areas owing to delays in appointment of consultants and staffing
difficulties. Work has now commenced in one of these areas and the Government
is currently reviewing a draft consultancy agreement for the supervision of
construction in the last remaining area. In January 1974 the Association informed
the Government of its serious concern over management problems but until recently
staff strengthening has been slow. New appointments have however now been made
for the posts of Operations Coordinator, Financial Controller, Chief Technical
Adviser and candidates for other key posts are presently being reviewed. As
a result, it is now hoped that project implementation will improve. The Associa-
tion has recently agreed to the extension of planting for a further year and will
consider further extension in the light of this season's performance.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the actions being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
Credit No. 382-TA - Second Livestock Development Project: $18.5 million
Credit of Nlay 23, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
Invitations for bids for the three meat plants to be constructed
and improved under the Project have been issued. Contracts for land clearing
equipment have been awarded and detailed ranch plans are being prepared.
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: $17.5 million Credit of
January 17, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The Project became effective on April 5, 1974. The conditions in
which the Project will operate were radically changed by the decision,
effective April 15, 1974, that farmers throughout the District should
immediately move into villages. The move was poorly planned and in the
short run will adversely affect production of cotton and foodcrops. Although
in the long run villagization could well be advantageous to the project as
savings in mechanization, extension and credit staff could be achieved, the
initial implementation of the project will be delayed. Project staff are
currently reviewing the implications of the villagization with a view to
identifying necessary adjustments to the project. Staff recruitment has
been slow but most important posts, including that of Deputy Project Manager,
to which a staff member of the Agricultural Development Service has been
appointed, have now been filled.
Loan No. 1014-TA - Cashewnut Development Project: $21.0 million Loan
of June 24, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Loan was declared effective on September 26, 1974. Bids for
the five processing facilities to be constructed under the Project have
been received. However the lowest bid was considerably in excess of the
appraisal estimate for the project component. The Cashewnut Authority is
currently reviewing methods to reduce the cost of these items.
Credit No. 508-TA - Kigoma Rural Development Project: $10.0 million
Credit of August 21, 1974, Closing Date - December 31, 1980
The Government is currently taking the required actions precedent
to effectiveness. Recruitment of Project staff is moderately well advanced.
The pace of villagization in Kigoma region has been considerably more rapid
than expected at the time of appraisal. Insufficient attention has been
given to planning villages. The Village Site Feasibility Reports provided
under the Project will therefore be even more important as a screening device
in t'Le selection of Project villages than was anticipated earlier.
Credit No. 513-TA and Loan No. 1041-TA - Kilombero Sugar Development
Project: $9.0 million Credit and $9.0 million Loan of September 27, 1974;
Closing Date - December 31, 1970
The Government and the Kilombero Sugar Company are currently
taking the required actions precedent to effectiveness. Contracts for
the first phase of procurement have been let.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 715-TA - Kidatu Hydroelectric Project: $30.0 million Loan of
December 14, 1970 and Supplementary Loan No. 712-2-TA of June 24, 1974;
Closing Date - June 30, 1976
A supplementary Loan of $5.0 million was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 6, 1974 and Sweden has approved a grant of SKr 20
million ($4.5) to cover the remaining foreign cost overruns which have
been experienced by this Project. The supplementary Loan became effective
on September 26, 1974. Although there have been some delays in manu-
facturing the turbines and generators, the date of commissioning of the
power station remains, as originally scheduled, July 1975.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Credit No. 460-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank Project: $6.0 million
Credit of February 13, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
This Credit was declared effective on April 18, 1974. Three sub-
Projects have so far been submitted and approved.
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Loan No. 586-TA - Second Highway Project: $7.0 million Loan of February 24,
1969; Original Closing Date - December 31, 1972: Revised Closing Date -
September 30, 1974
Construction works were satisfactorily completed late in 1972.
Outstanding contractors' claims have been settled and disbursements made.
Credit No. 265-TA - Third Highway Project: $6.5 million Credit of
August 6, 1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1974
After long delays by Government in completing tender arrangements,
an award of contract for the improvement of the Mtwara-Masai Road has
been made. However, owing to the increase in world prices for civil
works since the appraisal in 1970, the bid price for improving this road
is now more than double the appraisal estimate. The African Development Bank
is expected to make a loan of about $4.4 million equivalent to help cover the
cost overruns. Work by two betterment units on the improvement of about
475 km of agricultural feeder roads in the Geita district and Mara region
has commenced. Consultants for the pre-investment studies to be funded
under the Project have been selected.
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: $10.2 million Credit
of August 21, 1974; Closing Date - June 30, 1979
The Government is currently taking the required actions precedent
to effectiveness.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 149-TA - Second Education Project: $5.0 million Credit of
May 29, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
Progress has improved recently. All civil works contracts have
now been awarded and although it is not expected that lost time can be
made up, all elements of the Project should be completed in good order
within a 24 month extension of the Closing Date.
Credit No. 232-TA - Third Education Project: $3.3 million Credit of
February 5, 1971; Closing Date - June 30, 1975
Bids for the construction of all 13 Project institutions were
received in May 1973 resulting in the contract award for four institutions
but due to high quotations and poor response, the remaining nine were
retendered. Although the new tenders were still higher than anticipated,
all civil works contracts have now been awarded. Although the lost time
cannot be made up, Project progress has now improved.
Credit No. 371-TA - Fourth Education Project: $10.3 million Credit of
April 13, 1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Credit was declared effective July 2, 1973. The Project
Coordinator has been appointed and after some delays, technical
assistance specialists to assist in Project implementation, provided
by the Danish International Development Agency, have arrived in Tanzania
and are now engaged in detailed design work.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 495-TA - Sites and Services Project: $10.0 million Credit
of July 12, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1978
The Credit was declared effective on October 3, 1974. The civil
works contract for one site has already been awarded.



ANNEX III
Page 1 o0 2
TANZANIA PROGRAM LOAN
Loan Summary
BORROWER:            United Republic of Tanzania
MAOUNT:              US $30.0 million equivalent
TERMS:               30 years including 10 years grace at
8 percent per annum.
PROJECT              The Droposed project would provide foreign
DESCRIPTION:         exchange for imports of essential capital,
intermediate goods and raw materials for the
public and private sectors to enable the
borrower to implement its 1974/75 development
program.
PROCUREMENT          Imports by the private and parastatal
ARRANGEIEUMTs:       sectors would be subject to normal commercial
practices. In respect of imports by
governmental agencies, the Government's
tender procedures would apply. For overseas
procurement, these require advertisement in
the Government Gazette and in the local
press and notice to local embassies.
Practically all the countries from which
prospective suppliers are likely to be
interested are represented by missions in
Tanzania. The procedures normally require
at least six weeks notice for submission of
bids. They are in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines.
DISBURSEMNT
ARRANGEMENTS:
Imports:        The borrower would be reimbursed for the
foreign exchange expenditure on eligible
imports on the basis of evidence to be
submitted to the Bank periodically. No
disbursements would be made for food, fuel,
fertilizers and consumer goods or for imports
for which other sources of foreign financing
have been secured. Individual import
expenditures of less than $500 would not be
eligible for reimbursement.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Counterpart
Funds:        The Bank of Tanzania would open a special
project account in the name of the Government,
to whioh the Tanzania shilling equivalent of
imports financed under the loan would be
credited. The Government would withdraw
funds from the project account to cover
development expenditures under specified
votes in its 1974/75 development budget.
The use of the counterpart funds in financing
such expenditures would be limited to those
expenditures which are not otherwise financed
by external agencies. Withdrawals from the
project account would be made on the basis
of periodic certification by the Accountant
General regarding such expenditures, and
after the Bank has had an opportunity to
review withdrawal proposals.
Approved Votes of
Government's 1974/75
Developnent Budget                                  US $ million equivalent
Prime Minister and Second Vice President's Office             12.2
Agriculture                                                  44.8
National Education                                            8.9
Commerce and Industries                                      21.1
Communications and Works                                     29.4
Lands, Housing and Urban Development                          4.3
Finance                                                      314.9
Health                                                         6.7
Natural Resources and Tourism                                  7.1
Water Development and Power                                   53.2
Total                                                        222.6



