                    Document of
                The World Bank




                                            Report No: 28058-MOR

      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
         (CPL-40260 SCL-4026A SCPM-4026S)

                      ON A

                      LOAN

        IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28 MILLION

                     TO THE

             KINGDOM OF MOROCCO

                      FOR A

          SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
    (BARNAMAJ AL AOULAOUIYAT AL IJTIMAIYA)

COORDINATION AND MONITORING OF SOCIAL PROGRAMS,
        AND LABOR PROMOTION PROJECT




                    June 3, 2004

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective : May 2004)

                               Currency Unit = Dirham (DH)
                                    DH 1.00 = US$ 0.109
                                   US$ 1.00 = DH 9.20

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 - December 31


                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAJ     Barnamaj al-Aoulaouaiyat al-Ijtimaiya (Social Priorities Program)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CSSS    Committee for Monitoring the Social Strategy (Comité de Suivi de la Stratégie Sociale)
EOO     Jobs of temporary nature (emplois d'opportunité occassionnelle)
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
ILO     International Labour Organisation
LSMS    Living Standards Measurement Survey
MEN     Ministry of National Education
MH      Ministry of Health
MFP     Ministry of Finance and Privatisation
MNSHD   Middle East and North Africa Human Development Group
NCB     National Competitive Bidding
NFB     (Item) Not financed by the World Bank
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PMIS    Program Monitoring and Information System
PN      National Agency for Labor Promotion (Promotion Nationale)
SPP     Social Priorities Program (Programme Priorités Sociales)
SDS     Social Development Strategy (Stratégie de Développement Social pour la Décennie 1990)
SMAG    Minimum guaranteed wage in agriculture (Salaire Minimum Agricole Guaranti)
UNDP    United Nations Development Program



                              Vice President:   Christiaan Poortman
                            Country Director    Theodore Ahlers
                             Sector Director    Michal Rutkowski
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Dung-Kim Pham

                                           MOROCCO
                               MA-COOR/MON SOCIAL PRO


                                           CONTENTS




                                                                                   Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                         1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                        1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    13
9. Partner Comments                                                                   14
10. Additional Information                                                            16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 29
Annex 8. Borrower's Report                                                            30
Annex 9. List of Studies Carried out by the Department of Statistics/Observatory      51
Annex 10. Promotion Nationale, Budgetary Allocation by Region, 2001 and 2003          52

Project ID: P042414                                                  Project Name: MA-COOR/MON SOCIAL PRO
Team Leader: Dung-Kim Pham                                           TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 9, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: MA-COOR/MON SOCIAL PRO                                   L/C/TF Number: CPL-40260; SCL-4026A;
                                                                                                     SCPM-4026S
   Country/Department: MOROCCO                                                            Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (79%); Central government administration
                            (21%)
                  Theme: Social analysis and monitoring (P); Rural non-farm income
                            generation (P); Social risk reduction (P); Social risk coping (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/10/1993                                     Effective: 12/24/1996                12/24/1996
     Appraisal: 06/12/1995                                         MTR: 07/09/1999                  07/09/1999
      Approval: 05/30/1996                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF MOROCCO
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Theodore O. Ahlers                             Daniel Ritchie
Sector Director:                Michal Rutkowski                               Roslyn Hees
Team Leader at ICR:             Dung-Kim Pham                                  Benoit Millot
ICR Primary Author:             Marc Van Imschoot; Dung-Kim
                                Pham


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The macroeconomic adjustment instituted in the 1980s by the government brought relatively good economic
results; however performance in the social sectors remained worrisome. The government was committed to
focusing on social issues in a concerted manner and, in 1993, issued a social development strategy,
Stratégie de Développement Social pour la Décennie 1990 (SDS). The SDS established the framework for
social policy covering the following main aspects: (i) extending basic social services to the poor, (ii)
increasing their participation in economically productive activities, (iii) efficiently allocating scarce
resources, and (iv) monitoring and evaluation of social actions.

To assist the government in the implementation of the SDS, the Social Priorities Program (SPP; Barnamaj
al-Aoualaouiyat al-Ijtimaiya, or BAJ, in Arabic) was initiated. At the beginning, the SPP/BAJ was
conceived as one project. Later on, Bank's management decided to split the project into three
complementary projects to be implemented simultaneously within the same targeted poor rural areas: (i) the
BAJ Basic Education, (ii) the BAJ Basic Health, and (iii) the present project, the BAJ Coordination and
Monitoring of Social Programs and Labor Promotion.

Being an integral part of the SPP/BAJ, the project's objectives were to (i) improve basic infrastructure and
generate income transfers in rural communities through the use of labor-intensive techniques; (ii) set up a
body that would have the permanent capacity to monitor and analyze the socioeconomic standards of living
of the population; and (iii) raise public and political awareness of social issues.

The objectives are relevant and respond directly to the main focal areas of the government's SDS.
Furthermore, they are ambitious. The project constitutes the linchpin in the SPP/BAJ's overall architecture
and uses a multisectoral approach to amplify the impact of the two other projects in the SPP/BAJ;
therefore, it requires not only a strong capacity to coordinate the SPP/BAJ but also the commitment from a
large number of actors, in particular the line ministries directly involved in the SPP/BAJ. The ambitious
scope of the objectives is further intensified by the geographical dispersion of the SPP/BAJ in the fourteen
poorest provinces.

With investing in people as its first priority, the Bank's overall mission of poverty alleviation and its
Country Assistance Strategy underscored to a greater extent the government's SDS policies.


3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following three components:

Component A ­ Employment promotion (US$39.8 million) executed by the Promotion Nationale (PN).
This component would support activities in the areas of rural infrastructure, literacy and institutional
capacity building. Through the labor-intensive works undertaken by the PN, this component would pursue
a twofold objective. It would both (i) contribute to the improvement of basic social infrastructure with
activities complementing the interventions undertaken under the education and health projects comprising
the SPP/BAJ and (ii) create temporary employment in the targeted provinces, transferring income to poor
households.




                                                       - 2 -

Component B ­ Statistical monitoring (US$4.4 million) executed by the Department of Statistics (DS) of
the High Commissariat of Planning. This component would consist of two subcomponents: (i)
establishment of an Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions and (ii) carrying out a second
Household Living Standards Measurement Study (LSMS).

Component C ­ Strategy implementation and program coordination (US$5.2 million) executed by the
Secrétariat established under the High Commissariat of Planning. This component would support a small
program coordination unit, the Secrétariat, whose role would be to (i) monitor the impact of the three
SPP/BAJ projects; (ii) set up the Program Management Information System (PMIS) and a Geographical
Information System (GIS); (iii) coordinate and synchronize the actions recommended under the SDS; (iv)
keep the Social Strategy Steering Committee (CSSS) informed about the pace of implementation; (v)
prepare any documentation or analysis that the CSSS or government might need in order to monitor,
readjust and correct the country's SDS; and (f) mobilize internal and external constituencies to work
together toward the goals of and channel the necessary resources to the SDS.

Component A and B responded to project objectives and were within the operational capacities of the
respective implementing government departments: the PN, being a mature agency possessing significant
experience in the implementation of targeted social assistance programs in Morocco and the DS, a seasoned
agency with significant experience in surveying and analyzing economic and social statistical information.

Component C also responded to the project's overall objectives and was very relevant, particularly at a time
when Morocco was embarking on an ambitious strategy toward the coordination of social policies with the
macroeconomic framework, less a concrete structure to assume the coordination and monitoring of the
policies. The assignment of the execution of Component C to a unit located in a multisectoral ministry
under the direct control of the Prime Minister was well thought out. Despite the relevance of the
component, its scope was ambitious as coordination and monitoring of any program involving
inter-ministerial collaboration is, per se, complex, challenging and seldom achieved easily with complete
success.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were two revisions in Component A that did not result in a restructuring. The first revision
broadened the PN's scope of work to include activities that would increase the impact of the education and
health interventions, such as accommodations for school teachers and paramedical staff, construction of
boundary walls around schools and communal health centers, and connection of those buildings to a
potable water supply. The second revision discontinued pilot literacy programs in PN activities. Initially,
pilot literacy programs were included to take advantage of the PN's concentration of unskilled and largely
illiterate workers and to link skills acquisition with the concrete goals of a construction project. These
programs were discontinued because the efforts and costs outweighed the benefits. Whereas literacy
programs require, on average, a duration of 10 to 12 months to have an impact on the beneficiaries, the
average length of employment of workers on PN construction sites is less than one month. Moreover, the
PN does not have a comparative advantage in this field, which is better carried out by other government
agencies and competent NGOs.

It should also be noted that, after an administrative division, the number of targeted provinces changed
from thirteen to fourteen.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Overall quality at entry is rated satisfactory. This rating weights the relative importance of the three



                                                      - 3 -

components, in terms of their share of financing within the project, with the employment promotion
component (representing 79 percent of the project) prepared and assessed more satisfactorily than the
statistical monitoring and the strategy implementation and program coordination components.

Having rated quality at entry as satisfactory, this must be qualified by two weak points: (i) the absence of
indicators to evaluate the results of the monitoring and coordination components and (ii) the absence of
baseline and target values in twelve out of the thirteen indicators established at project appraisal.

Using the five criteria for quality at entry, the results of the assessment are as follows:

· Consistency with country strategy. Achievement of this criteria is very satisfactory. The project
responded fully to the Bank's overall framework of assistance for the country's strategy on social policy.
By providing support to the provision of basic social services and of more effective social safety net
instruments as well as support for high quality statistical monitoring, the project's objectives converged
toward the main policies of the country's strategy on social development.

· Project design. During a supervision assessment in 1998, QAG also looked at the context of the project
and commented, (quote) The project design was not sound, being a residual of a large social sector project
from which an education and a health project had been cut out. Less attention was put into the project,
exemplified by the fact that this "coordination and monitoring" project had neither an adequately prepared
coordination nor any monitoring indicators. The investment components were closer to readiness (unquote).

In fact and as indicated in paragraph 3.1, this project was the result of the split of the SPP/BAJ. The split
was made to simplify and facilitate project implementation. As such, the original design of the SPP/BAJ
has to be extrapolated to all three spin-offs, but in particular to this project, which is the keystone of its
architecture.

The present assessment found that the design of the project included a number of innovative features, as
follows:
· To promote synergy among the various sectoral inputs, the employment promotion focused on those
small-scale rural infrastructure works that complemented activities carried out by the education and health
projects, yielding more durable results.
· Appropriate implementation mechanisms were put in place for the monitoring and coordination of the
SPP/BAJ. The monitoring of the impact of the SPP/BAJ was handled at the central level by the Secrétariat,
assisted by a National Living Conditions Observatory, and by focal points positioned in the targeted
provinces. The coordination of the multisectoral activities under SPP/BAJ was handled at the provincial
level by the governor's office whose normal mandate is such coordination, ensuring a stronger "bottom-up"
approach to planning and execution of activities.
· Emphasis was placed on a sound management information system to track the impact of the SPP/BAJ. A
program management information system (PMIS) was to be established at the onset of the project.
· Simplified procurement and disbursement arrangements, which took into consideration the nature of
project activities and the Bank's fiduciary requirements, were established. For PN activities, which
involved numerous decentralized transactions of small value, an in-depth assessment of PN procurement
capacity and procedures was undertaken. Standards and criteria were then agreed. As a result,
disbursement was based on "proof of service," a certificate established by the government confirming that
the specific operation or activity had been implemented according to standards and criteria agreed a priori
with the Bank. During the course of implementation, technical audits were undertaken.

· Participation and dialogue during preparation. This criteria was achieved very satisfactorily. There was


                                                        - 4 -

an excellent level of participation and dialogue throughout project preparation between the Bank and the
government, including the different ministries involved in the SPP/BAJ. The SDS was discussed and agreed
upon by all parties. Actions plans in the education and health sectors were reviewed to ensure their
coherence with the SPP/BAJ and to confirm that they constituted a solid and realistic foundation for putting
social sector policies into action. In addition, there was strong stakeholder participation. The design of the
employment promotion component benefited from a wide, bottom-up consultation with representatives of
the targeted communities.

· Project preparedness for implementation. This criteria was achieved moderately. The following key
actions were accomplished to bring the project to readiness for implementation: (i) the endorsement of the
SDS by the government, (ii) a thorough capacity assessment of the departmental units designated to
execute the various components, especially those of the PN and the DS, (iii) a comprehensive assessment of
procurement/ disbursement arrangements, and (iv) the establishment of the Secrétariat. Nevertheless, this
satisfactory status of project preparedness for implementation is penalized by (i) the absence of indicators
to evaluate the results of the monitoring and coordination components and (ii) the absence of baseline and
target values in twelve out of the thirteen indicators established at project appraisal, relating mainly to the
employment promotion component. Because of the strategic position of the project within the SPP/BAJ,
annual work plans for the education and health projects should have been firmed up at appraisal, and
baseline values and target values for the employment promotion component could have been developed, at
least for the first year.

· Project risk evaluation. Risk evaluation was comprehensive, evaluating the risks on an overall project
level and by component, with accompanying mitigation measures. It is noteworthy to indicate the following
three risks that became relevant during project implementation: (i) the political pressure put on the PN to
devote more of its resources to non-poverty-oriented activities; (ii) the coordination capacity of the
Secrétariat, and (iii) the Observatory's abuse of its hegemony over users of social statistics.

From a retrospective point of view, the component risk associated with the coordination and monitoring of
social programs was underestimated. The weak capacity of the Secrétariat was identified but the
complexity of the task was not adequately addressed. Besides the SPP/BAJ, there are multiple other
government programs (Entraide Nationale, Mohamed V Foundation, Hassan II Fund, Social Development
Agency) and projects funded by private foundations and NGOs for social protection policy that do not
report to the Secrétariat.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the project has achieved its objectives and the outcome is rated satisfactory.

The first objective to improve basic infrastructure in rural areas and generate income transfers has been
achieved by means of a large number of projects implemented by the PN in rural provinces, in coordination
with the local authorities. Rural communities were provided with basic infrastructure, which complemented
the education and health interventions and thus amplified the impact of the social interventions. The
labor-based construction techniques practiced by the PN generated temporary employment that benefited
about 300,000 poor rural families. A total of 4,289,284 working days was created and a total amount of
DH189,260,648 (almost US$20 million), as payment of salary to unskilled/semi-skilled workers, was
injected into the rural economy. In addition, the project has supported the PN in its efforts to reorient its
activities toward impoverished rural areas. The share of the PN budget allocated to emplois d'opportunité
occasionnelle (EOO), primarily clerical work in urban communities, decreased from 50 percent in 1996 to



                                                      - 5 -

37 percent in 1999, 22 percent in 2002, and inched up to 30 percent in 2003 (see paragraph 4.2.1).

The two rounds of beneficiary assessments as well as contact with the population during the technical
audits undertaken during project implementation reveal that these rural infrastructure projects have
generated multiple impacts: (i) rural roads constructed primarily to facilitate access to schools and
communal health centers have generated additional benefits such as the increase of traffic to isolated
villages, lower passenger transport costs, lower prices for basic commodities, easier implementation of
other community assets such as potable water supplies and rural electrification; (ii) construction of
dormitories in rural areas has increased the enrollment of children and especially girls coming from remote
areas; (iii) construction of potable water supplies, latrines and boundaries walls around schools and health
centers has improved the operational conditions of these facilities. The recent Poverty Study also indicated
that PN's activities, funded under the project, had significant impact on the poor.

The second objective to set up a body to monitor the population's socioeconomic standards of living has
been achieved with the establishment of an Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions. The
Observatory has been active in tracking household living conditions and producing analyses of the data,
with the assistance of consultants. Recently, it also participated with the Bank in the poverty mapping work
within the context of the Poverty Study and has shown great interest in the work. However, being a new
entity, the Observatory will need more efficient management and better resources to become a strong and
independent entity capable of responding effectively to users' needs.

Concerning the third objective, there is no doubt that the work undertaken by the DS and the Observatory
to monitor and evaluate the social and economic conditions of the population has raised public and political
awareness of social issues. Yet, the project has not been successful in setting up an operational entity to
assume the coordination and monitoring of the government's social policies. The Secrétariat, which was
established to be such an entity, lost its political support and has seen its importance eroded throughout the
years.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1    Employment Promotion
Operations that fell directly under the PN's control resulted in highly satisfactory outputs. A total number
of 1,396 projects have been implemented, resulting both in the provision of basic infrastructure and in an
important injection of money into the local economy as indicated above. The outputs per type of
infrastructure are presented in the following table.

                 Wells and  Water supplies  Water tanks  Buildings                Boundary  Basic rural Afforestation
 Financial Year   ancillary                and structures of social  Latrines (u)
                            (m of pipeline)                                       walls (m) roads (km)      (ha)
                 works (u)                      (u)      utility (u)

    1996/1997       37            0            140            0          24          0         71            3

    1997/1998        8            0            343           10           8          0         488           0

    1998/1999       13            0            576            6          32          0         517           11

    1999/2000       11            0            676           26          14          0         549           0

  2nd Sem. 2000      5            0            307           32          14          0         246           0

      2001           1         12594           343           37           6        19997       274           0

      2002           5          2700           252           31           7        12625       199           0

 Add. funds 2002     0            0              8            3           1        4106        15            0

     TOTAL          80         15294           2645         145         106       36728       2360           14




                                                             - 6 -

Taking into consideration the implementation arrangements (mixture of force account and contracting to
achieve the project's social objectives in terms of employment creation), these impressive physical outputs
were reached with:
· A proper selection of different types of projects, complementing the investments in the health and
education sector in the 14 targeted provinces and resulting in advancement of the multisectoral and
integrated approach in rural development, an approach increasingly promoted by the Moroccan
government;
· Improved architectural design of social facilities, in particular, dormitories for girls and boys, adding
rooms for practical work and recreation;
· Quality of works, partly due to the subcontracting of finishing works in buildings to local small-scale
contractors;
· Efficiency in the procurement of goods and works;
· Transparency in recruitment of workers for PN construction sites. Since demand for work was higher than
what the PN could offer, a rotation system was put in place offering an equal chance to everybody willing
to work. The workforce consisted to a large extent of unskilled workers and was changed every fortnight on
most sites;
· A well-reputed implementation method that is founded on labor-intensive construction techniques, which
to date respond to the needs of underemployment in rural areas.
· Cost-efficiency reflected by both low project unit costs and low overheads (the PN's running costs are
estimated at 5.6 percent of its investment budget);
· Proper project documentation, including a completion report for each project undertaken as well as
adequate records on procurement of supplies and finishing works always grouped together for a cluster of
projects; and
· Enhanced ownership of projects by direct beneficiaries, having participated in the construction of their
own assets.

Another expected output was the reduction of the PN budget allocated to EOO from 50 percent in 1996 to
20 percent by the end of 2000 (set as a legal covenant). This proved elusive due to political considerations
beyond the PN's control. The targeted EOO jobs initially were created in 1978 on a temporary basis to
combat various economic and political difficulties, and they mainly covered administrative jobs occupied
largely by women and maintenance jobs in urban localities. The adverse impact of the policy was that
these jobs became permanent and absorbed a large share of the PN budget.

Great efforts were made by the PN to reduce its global budget allocated to EOO from 50 percent in 1996 to
37 percent in 1999 and 22 percent in 2002. In 2003, there was an increase to 30 percent due to a change in
the budgetary process. The budget for the PN was not allocated directly at the beginning of the year but
depended on several installments coming from VAT revenues allocated to local municipalities in
combination with allocations from the ministry of finance (MoF). As such, the PN was obliged to first
fulfill payment of EOO salaries to the detriment of traditional poverty-oriented activities in rural areas.
(Annex 10 presents the budget allocation by regions in 2001 and 2003). The government is aware of the
issue and is devising budgetary measures to ensure that, at the least, the PN receives its direct allocations
from the MoF at the beginning of the year to allow the PN to do the tendering. PN's implementation
method, based on the execution of many small-scale projects by force account, requires the tendering ­
preferably in the first quarter of the year ­ of materials construction, finishing works and other items to be
grouped for a cluster of projects.

It is useful to indicate that the share of EOO varies with the vocation of the province/region (high in
provinces with an urban vocation and low in provinces with a rural vocation). For the 14 targeted provinces
under the project, the reduction of the EOO was significant, decreasing to 9 percent in 2002 from 52


                                                      - 7 -

percent in 1996/97. This reduction was the result of (i) a re-employment of male manpower to urban
construction sites (layout and maintenance of parks, green areas, avenues, etc.), for which a special budget
line was opened in 1998/99; (ii) a budget increase in 1999/2000 to cope with the negative effects of
drought; and (iii) insertion of a limited number of persons employed under the EOO scheme into the local
administration.

4.2.2    Statistical monitoring
The outputs achieved under this component are satisfactory. The two principal activities (i) establishment
of the Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions and (ii) carrying out a second household Living
Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) have been executed.

The Observatory has been established and staffed with professional personnel. Its status has recently been
changed to a division, conferring some financial autonomy. On the production side, the Observatory has
been engaged in the production of many periodical reviews on living conditions and related socioeconomic
studies and the organization of seminars where study results were presented and discussed. Being a young
entity, the Observatory is trying to progressively improve its concept and research methodologies through
scientific encounters and exchanges with national and international institutions. On the dissemination side,
feedback from users indicates a less than satisfactory situation. Even though summary results of
socio-economic analyses were made available to users, access to the primary, unit record data and complete
documentation related to those data was difficult. Yet access to these data by the community of users is
crucial to realizing the full benefits of these data for better evidence-based policy making. To contribute to
the government's goal of maintaining a high quality statistical system of socioeconomic information, the
DS together with the Observatory, being the core institution of the country's social statistical system,
should pay more attention to the needs of users by providing primary, unit record data, with high quality
and complete documentation and timely access to that data and documentation.

The second LSMS was carried out in 1998-99 by the DS. The results have been in strong demand by
government departments, universities and international development agencies, such as the World Bank,
UNDP, UNICEF, ILO and UNFPA, for research purposes and improved targeting of development
programs. The results have been the source of information for the Poverty Study and have helped both the
government and the Bank to better understand poverty in Morocco. Other socioeconomic studies and
publications have also been undertaken on the basis of those results. A complete list is presented in annex
9. A third LSMS is planned for 2005. It will take into consideration the needs expressed by government
departments and institutions, as well as lessons drawn from the 1998-99 survey.

4.2.2    Strategy implementation and program coordination
The outputs of this component should be assessed at two levels. At the central level, they are not
satisfactory. The main activities planned as tools to facilitate coordination and monitoring of social
programs were not produced in a timely manner. The PMIS, which should have been ready at the beginning
of the project, was implemented in June 2003 on a pilot basis in five provinces. Annual progress reports on
the SPP/BAJ were established with considerable delays, diminishing the pertinence of the information.
Program coordination meetings were organized irregularly. Two rounds of beneficiary assessments were
undertaken in a more satisfactory manner with results of the first round widely disseminated among
government ministries. The dissemination of the results of the second round will take place after
government's validation of the final report. The performance at the central level has been inhibited by
many factors, such as: (i) the general difficulty associated with coordination of multisectoral programs, (ii)
weak intra- and inter-sectoral in the execution of the actions programmed under each SPP/BAJ project, (iii)
a lack of coordination between the department of the different ministries, and (iv) reduced influence of the
Secrétariat and the representatives of the SPP/BAJ in the provinces. At the provincial level, program


                                                       - 8 -

coordination was more efficient, benefiting from the effective intervention of governors, who are in a
strategic position to coordinate, monitor and strengthen the integration of projects and programs in their
province.

The 1998 QAG supervision assessment also noted that commitment on central coordination was weak
though fortunately offset by good coordination at provincial level.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
At appraisal stage, no in-depth cost-benefit analysis was undertaken for the rural facilities to be built by the
PN considering that there were few reliable or cost-effective existing alternatives in Morocco to the PN
public works program for generating income and improving community infrastructure in remote areas.
Using capital-intensive techniques to build and maintain local infrastructure was judged neither socially
desirable (since it would miss the employment-generating target) nor technically feasible.

The cost-effectiveness of the PN's implementation method, expected to be the least costly and most
appropriate solution in terms of employment creation, was verified on a sample of 51 projects of differing
nature out of a total of 1,396 projects implemented during the project's span. The average unit costs of PN
projects were compared with unit costs of similar projects implemented by other government departments
using contractors. They were also compared with those of similar labor-intensive projects implemented in
other countries. The main findings of this cost-effectiveness analysis, presented in detail in annex 3, are
presented hereunder:

· The PN has a comparative advantage in rural road construction: about 80 percent cheaper for earth road
construction and 40 percent cheaper for gravel road construction. This large difference can be explained by
the reason that the PN uses labor-based techniques that are very appropriate in Morocco, has long
experience in managing construction sites with many laborers, calls on engineers/technicians from the
provincial administration to provide standard designs (in fact, hiring consulting engineers to prepare detail
design studies is not required for low-traffic roads), does not pay VAT and does not need to make profit as
is needed in the private sector;
· The cost-effectiveness in the provision of basic access is also demonstrated by its low per-capita
investment of US$10 for basic earth road construction and US$28 for a 5 m wide gravel road construction
(a threshold of US$50 is used by the Bank in other countries).
· The average labor-intensity in rural road construction is very high (69 percent for earth road construction
and 63 percent for gravel road construction). In most other countries where rural roads are constructed
using labor-based construction techniques, this percentage often does not exceed 50 percent. Average unit
costs in other countries are higher as well, although perfect comparisons are difficult to make since
conditions differ.
· For buildings, PN operations are on average only 34 percent cheaper, explained by the fact that since
2000, the PN has subcontracted part of the works (finishing jobs) on most of its building sites to
small-scale contractors, because it experienced difficulties attracting well-qualified workers paid at the PN
daily wage of DH57.88. In other countries where similar buildings are constructed under different
programs financed by the Bank, very similar unit costs are found. The wage bill for the unskilled workers
who are recruited on building sites accounts for 30 percent of total project costs, which is correct (the main
cost item is construction material).
· The construction of water tanks is more expensive in Morocco (almost double) than in other countries
with comparable wage levels (such as Yemen), as the design is different: (i) water tanks built in Morocco
have a smaller capacity; (ii) they are constructed in concrete; and (iii) they are covered, which is not the
case elsewhere.




                                                      - 9 -

Overall, the wage bill for the temporary unskilled/semi-skilled and skilled workers, recruited as temporary
workers on PN construction sites, accounts for about 52 percent of total project costs. This result is highly
satisfactory and much higher than the one achieved by other public works implementing agencies set up
with assistance from the Bank, such as the AGETIP (Agence d'Exécution des Travaux d'Intérêt Public).
The latter were set up at the beginning of the 90's in many African countries as autonomous agencies both
to speed up the implementation of public works and to create employment.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated modest.
1) Promotion Nationale (PN): The contribution of the project to building institutional capacity at the PN is
modest as the agency, created in 1961, already had extensive experience in implementing small- and
medium-scale infrastructure projects funded either by the government budget or by external financial
resources. Nevertheless, the project assisted the PN in reinforcing its capacity to plan and monitor projects
and in reinforcing its implementation method by using small-scale contractors wherever their use was more
advantageous.
2) Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions: The institutional development impact on Morocco's
monitoring system of social statistics is also modest. With the establishment of the Observatory, the system
has additional capacity to track the effects of social policy measures; however, the Observatory's capacity
in responding to users' needs is still weak. Concerted attention to the Observatory's management and
continued strengthening of its capacity is necessary to sustain the investment.
3) Secrétariat: The institutional development impact is negligible. As indicated above, the objective to
establish an entity capable of coordinating and monitoring the country's social development strategy did not
reach the desired results.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Concerning the Employment promotion component, the following factors have prevented the PN from fully
reaching the requirement of reducing its EOO budget allocation to 20 percent: (i) EOO posts (about
US$110/month) are mainly occupied by people belonging to the poorest strata of the population, having no
alternative source of income; (ii) Morocco has been struck by several years of drought requiring special
programs; and (iii) there have been specific conditions encountered in the provinces in the South, where the
EOO ratio is very high (79 percent). Concerning the Strategy implementation and program coordination
component, the performance of the Secrétariat was adversely affected by the weak collaboration from the
representatives of line ministries involved in the SPP/BAJ at the central level.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Whereas the integrated approach used in implementing social interventions in impoverished rural areas is
well accepted and has been put in practice by provincial authorities, the PN's contribution to this process is
lessened by the new way its investment budget is funded. The lack of clarity in the availability of its budget
in 2003 forced the PN to first honor its commitments with respect to the payment of EOO and workers
employed on urban construction/maintenance sites to the detriment of its rural development projects (see
paragraph 4.2.1). In order to preserve its mandate to fight poverty, the PN should benefit from a budget
funding geared towards poverty, and its program objectives should be clearly defined to target the rural
poor.

In addition, the importance given to the role of the Secrétariat was not sustained throughout the years. The



                                                     - 10 -

Secrétariat was also not provided with adequate material resources to enable it to fulfill its role.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The high level of competence and commitment exhibited by the PN staff contributed to the satisfactory
results of the project. However, turnover of the SPP/BAJ focal points in the targeted provinces caused
disruptions in reporting to the Secrétariat.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal total project cost, excluding taxes, was estimated at US$42.3 million: the Bank provided
US$28 million (66 percent of the total) and the government US$14.3 million (34 percent) in addition to
US$7.2 million for taxes. The project closed on December 31, 2003, as planned. At loan closing,
disbursements were as follows: US$1.4 million disbursed under Loan no. 4026S and 23.9 million euros
disbursed under Loan no. 4026A

There were two amendments to the loan agreement to continue project support to poverty alleviation. The
first one took place in 2000 and widened the scope of the PN's work to include activities that would
complement the education and health projects. The second one, in 2002, reallocated loan funds to the PN
from savings acquired under the other components and based on satisfactory results of the PN's activities
assessed during technical audits .

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is likely and can be examined through three points of view: (i)
sustainability of the approach to social interventions, (ii) sustainability of the institutional development, and
(ii) sustainability of the small-scale rural infrastructure projects.

Sustainability of approach
The multisectoral/integrated approach of social programs, promoted by this project and adopted in other
development projects, has become standard practice at the level where it counts, namely the provincial
level. Local authorities are committed to this approach, acknowledging that integrated interventions
respond effectively to the population's needs and yield more significant and durable results in an efficient
manner.

Sustainability of institutional development
The institution newly established by this project is the Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions. It is
now functioning and is an integral part of the government's statistical monitoring system of social
conditions. The change of its status to a division is indicative of its increased visibility and perceived
importance though continued support to strengthen its management and its resources remains necessary.

Concerning the PN, it has to be underlined that the agency is an old institution, set up by the government
without external assistance, whose mission is still relevant to the high underemployment in rural areas. It
continues to benefit from government funds in the order of DH500 million (US$50 million) per year and is
supplemented by other allocations for special programs such as droughts. The PN will continue to play a
major role in employment creation and rural asset creation with the government's commitment to social
development.

Sustainability of small-scale rural infrastructure projects
The coordination of social interventions under the SPP/BAJ and other programs carried out by the
governor's office at the provincial level brought along commitment from local governments and the civic


                                                       - 11 -

society, which is the first crucial element in sustaining the viability of the projects. With increasing
decentralization of decision-making to local levels, local governments and the civic society will be
empowered to own these assets; and it is expected that they will take charge of the operations and
maintenance of the assets for their own benefit.

The sustainability of a number of the projects was checked during field visits. Dormitories were functioning
at good capacity and, most importantly, their operations were maintained by contributions, in terms of
personnel and funds, from l'Entraide Nationale, local NGOs and rural communes as well as from parents.
The rural roads that were completed in 2001 still provide all-weather access due to initial good quality
construction. Rural communes traditionally did not view maintenance of these roads as being their
responsibility, and as a result maintenance has been irregular. However as the communes have become
increasingly aware of the benefits accruing to them by virtue of the roads, it is expected that they will
eventually come to view the roads as their assets and assume responsibility for their maintenance. The
ongoing decentralization process will give impetus to the change of behavior. In the meantime, a number of
simple measures have been identified to sustain these investments, such as the provision of hand tools,
small maintenance manuals to the communes, and gravel stockpiled along the road to facilitate
post-construction maintenance.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There is no need to establish transition modalities as project activities related to statistical monitoring of
social conditions are embedded in the daily operations of the DS and the Observatory. These two entities
form the government's system of social statistics. Specific transition arrangements are also not required for
PN operations since the assets created and/or improved under the project were handed over to the local
authorities in charge of operations and maintenance. The PN acted solely as the implementing agency on
behalf of the line ministries (education and health) and rural communes.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Despite weak structure of the indicators in the project design (see paragraph 3.5), project preparation is
judged satisfactory for all three phases -- identification, preparation and appraisal. With the other two
projects in education and health, the present project brought an important innovation to Morocco in the
approach of delivering social programs. Throughout preparation, the Bank team and the representatives of
the different ministries worked in close synergy. The Bank played an important role in reviewing the SDS,
which was subsequently updated and endorsed by the government.

7.2 Supervision:
Despite a "marginal satisfactory with improvements since early 1998" rating by QAG for supervision
undertaken during the first two years of project implementation, overall Bank performance for supervision
is judged satisfactory. The satisfactory rating is based on the fact that the Bank took into account QAG's
recommendations and strengthened its supervision. As a result, the quality of supervision was improved
with the establishment of performance indicators, including values, and their use to monitor project
performance in a systematic way. Three technical audits were undertaken to assess PN activities, and their
results positively influenced the decision to increase funding to the employment promotion component in
2002. In addition, the Bank emphasized the importance of the SPP/BAJ reporting by the Secrétariat,
resulting in a number of positive effects, such as periodic meetings of inter-ministerial departments to
review the reports and the government's awareness of the impact of SPP/BAJ.

The mid-term review was organized in two phases and was comprehensive. It assessed in-depth the



                                                      - 12 -

components of the project and confirmed the validity of project objectives, with an expansion of the PN's
scope of activities to strengthen the impact of the social interventions.

The Bank also increased its supervision efforts by having a socio-economist in the Rabat Country Office
assigned to the project, complementing the team based at headquarters. Without compromising project
objectives, the Bank was flexible when it was necessary to enlarge the scope of the PN's work to activities
complementary to education and health, and to reallocate additional funds for employment creation.

Nevertheless, the Bank failed to fulfill its role in assisting the Secrétariat in the establishment of the
Program Management Information System (PMIS), in due time. This weak assistance contributed to the
situation whereby the project did not have an effective tool for information management. In addition,
Bank's documentation records show that there was no supervision activities during 2000. Except for
project launch and one supervision mission in the early year of project implementation, coordination of
missions work among Bank's staff responsible for the three projects comprising the SPP/BAJ was weak.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the performance noted above, the bank's overall performance for preparation and supervision is
rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The government's performance is rated satisfactory. The government was committed to its social
development strategy and set up an Inter-ministerial Technical Committee to ensure the coherence of the
three projects comprising the SPP/BAJ with the SDS objectives. There was excellent collaboration with the
Bank, with open discussion of the country's social development strategy.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's performance is rated satisfactory, being shaded by a weaker performance at the central
level. At the provincial level, local authorities were active and efficient in implementing the project,
together with other development programs/projects, in an integrated approach. They acknowledged the
positive impact of the SPP/BAJ and expressed interest in similar future projects/programs.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agencies is rated satisfactory. Overall, the personnel possessed a high
level of competence and were dedicated to the objectives of the project. The performance of the Secrétariat
was shadowed by the lack of sustained government support, inadequate material resources as well as its
dependence on the collaboration of several ministerial departments outside of its control.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Given the performance noted above, the Borrower's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

1.       Poverty reduction and the promotion of social development in rural areas are best handled by a
decentralization of actions to local authorities. The project has proven that coordination at the central
level is cumbersome. Local authorities have thorough knowledge of the population needs as well as the
economic environment, and are well positioned to respond rapidly to those needs.

2.       A multisectoral approach in social development interventions yields more significant and
durable results. However, this approach is complex to manage and requires engagement and commitment



                                                       - 13 -

of all levels of government (central and local), sectoral ministires as well as the civic society. Monitoring
and evaluation also constitutes an essential factor. On the Bank side, the same challenges apply. For a
multisectoral approach to succeed, the following issues need to be addressed: (i) Bank-wide engagement
and commitment, (ii) cross-sectoral accountabilily, and (iii) staff profile.

3.       It is important to have a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system; however, in order to serve as
an effective tool for the design of poverty alleviation policies, the M&E system must be strong and
reliable. The project correctly foresaw the need to assist the government in establishing a reliable system.
The effectiveness of the system will depend on the government's maintaining its interest in using the data
and in strengthening data collection processes as well as its interest in making the data readily available to
users.

4.       The availability of a management information system (MIS) is essential at the early stage of a
project. The late execution of the establishment of the PMIS under the project is one of the key factors
handicapping the monitoring of SPP/BAJ. In addition, these systems should be provided, in the first
instance, to the agencies that are directly involved in project execution to enable them to compile essential
project data and monitor physical and financial progress. The Bank supports many projects similar to the
present project that have successfully established a performing MIS. It should find ways to share the
experience among projects rather than having new efforts invested for each MIS.

5        The PN's efficient method of operations should be capitalized and considered for other Bank
operations having a small- or medium-scale infrastructure component. As unemployment and
underemployment remain the biggest problems confronting the Moroccan government, Bank-supported
programs/projects should view the PN as a potential partner in order not to miss the
employment-generating opportunities offered by PN implementation methods.

6.       The Bank and the government should assess the political and economic impact of decisions
before agreeing on legal covenants that are binding and must be monitored carefully. Even though the
legal covenant set under the project has a valid objective, i.e. to reorient PN activities in favor of activities
aiming at reducing poverty, it is not realistically feasible without having parallel mechanisms to provide
income to the category of workers associated with the EOO. The EOO scheme is part of the Moroccan
social safety system.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government provided eleven pages of comments, focusing on the Statistical monitoring component and
the Strategy implementation and program coordination component. After review, paragraph 4.2.2. was
revised to bring out more clearly the assessment made on the Observatory's quality of data. Paragraph 7.2
was also revised to include the comment made on the lack of coordination of Bank's missions.

Borrower's comments provide ample information to support the accessibility and reliability of data and
socio-economic indicators produced by the Observatory. They are summarized and translated as follows.
The full text is attached with the Borrower's report in Annex 8.

The reading of the report established by the World Bank shows that the report does not do a deep
evaluation, and that it shows appreciations that are often subjective. These appreciations do not take into
account on the one hand the complexity of monitoring and coordination, and on the other hand the



                                                    - 14 -

considerable achievements that can only be appreciated if one does not recall the overall process of project
conception and implementation.

1. Statistical monitoring
         The results established by the World Bank does not inscribe, in any case, in the logic of the
conclusions of all the mission reports related to the SPP/BAJ, since its implementation until January 2004,
the date of the mission from January 5 to 16.

         The questions related to "problems of access to data, their precision and the institutional
development" emerged curiously after the establishment of a first draft of the ICR during the January 5 -
16, 2004. Neither the mid-term review nor the precedent reports, including the first draft of the ICR, have
raised or at least alluded to any modest results.

         On the contrary, the Direction of Statistics has honored additional commitments that were not
programmed under the Component Statistical Monitoring of the BAJ1, of which the Statistics Window.

2. Coordination and monitoring of social programs

         The ICR prepared by the World Bank, related to the component Coordination and monitoring of
social programs, has the tendency, in general, to ignore the main activities undertaken by the Secrétariat.
The report has especially insisted, in a general manner, on the difficulties of coordination and the delays in
establishing the geographical information system.

         The report judges that the results at the central level were not satisfactory and attributes the
performance to two factors. The first factor concerns the delay in establishing the management information
system of the Program (SIGP) as well as a geographical information system (SIG). However, the report
does not mention that the reasons for this delay are shared with Bank's missions. The second factor,
concerning the delays in establishing annual progress reports of the BAJ1, requires also some precisions. It
must be noted, first of all, that the Secrétariat took responsibility in the preparation of the 1996/97,
1997/98, 1998/99, 1999/2000, 2001 and 2002 reports, in coordination with the concerned departments.
The delays in transmitting the reports were not significant, and were justified as the Secrétariat ensured that
the report was in conformity with the objectives and done in collaboration with the members of the
technical inter-ministerial committee and the focal points at the provincial level.

         The report judges that the institutional impact is negligible. The report ignores the considerable
efforts deployed by the Secrétariat, since the beginning of the project, to implement the first phase of the
social development strategy. On the institutional development side, to complement the actions of BAJ1, the
Secrétariat has implemented, in coordination with UNDP, the Human Development Program and Fight
against Poverty that targets the four poorest provinces of the BAJ1. This has enabled the mobilization of
other agencies through the capitalization of the targeting work done when BAJ1 was conceived. This has
also enabled, through the Secrétariat's efforts, to eliminate the incomprehension attached to the concept of
poverty and to facilitate its popularization.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A




                                                       - 15 -

10. Additional Information

The following section summarizes the main results of the beneficiary assessment made in 2000.

Achieved Activities
Of all beneficiary provinces in BAJ1, 240 locations benefited from projects executed by the Promotion
Nationale. The surveyed locations number 176, or 73.3 percent.

The proportion of projects surveyed varies from 35 percent in Sidi Kacem (7 of 20) to 100 percent in
Zagora. In nine provinces, the proportion of projects surveyed is 80 percent and higher.

The breakdown of the number of activities surveyed by province indicates that two provinces (Al Hoceima
and Esssaouira) alone benefited from 27 percent of the activities, while six provinces benefited from only
24.4 percent (Al Haouz, Azilal, Ouarzazate, Sidi Kacem, Tiznit and Zagora). There were 222 activities.

In this regard, 16.7 percent of the activities undertaken by the BAJ1 program relate to the construction of
water tanks. The same percentage applies to latrines. Next come the construction, rehabilitation and
reinforcement of rural roads, capturing 14 percent of the Promotion Nationale's activities, over the course
of the first three years. The activities have had positive effects, notably by adding value to education and
health activities, and creating employment and revenue in the beneficiary locations.

Beneficiary Satisfaction
Seventy-nine percent of the activities executed by the Promotion Nationale were perceived with
satisfaction by the population and by the elected officials of the surveyed localities. The highest rate of
satisfaction was recorded in Ouarzazate, Sidi Kacem and Zagora (satisfaction with all of the projects). The
weakest rates were observed in Al Hoceima (58.3 percent), Tiznit (62.5 percent) and Al Haouz (66.7
percent).

The reasons for dissatisfaction are due principally to:
- Project not executed;
- Inadequacy of the project as related to the needs of the population;
- Project being incomplete or insufficient (feeder roads not reaching the village, construction of latrines
  without water);
- Salinity and insufficiency of water in many wells due to lack of depth;
- Non-functioning of some activities (latrines);
- Project benefiting only to the school, the population at-large not benefiting from it (the case of water
  tanks, wells, and latrines constructed at the school);
- Population did not participate in the works to achieve the project;
- Site of project was not well chosen (the case of wells dug next to the school, constituting a danger for the
  students).

Overall, the activities left good impressions on the beneficiary population. The reinforcement and
rehabilitation of rural roads and structures permitted the opening up of the rural areas and its access to
centers and services. The piping of potable water, digging of ditches, and construction of cisterns lightened,
relatively, the difficult conditions for fetching water and limited the chores assured by children (notably
young girls), leaving them the time to attend school. The construction of Dar Ettalib contributes to retain
children in rural locations in school. The construction of Kouttab permits the strengthening of pre-school
education and positively influences retention in the first cycle of primary education.




                                                     - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


          Outcome/Impact Indicators                  Projected in last     Actual/Latest
                                                           PSR                Estimate

Component A: Promotion Nationale
Poverty orientation
l Decrease of the PN budget allocation to                  22%                   30%
   "Chantiers d'opportunité occasionelle"
Project Process Indicators
l Employment creation: number of workdays                4 millions         4.3 millions
   created each year through PN/BAJ sites
l Income transfers: wage bill distributed            179 millions DH      189 millions DH
   through PN/BAJ sites
Component B: Statistical Monitoring
l Raise public and political awareness of social   Results of LSMS       Public and political
   issues, their relation to economic growth, and  published and         awareness raised
   the remedial action required.                   disseminated and a    through the
                                                   serious of thematic   publication of a whole
                                                   studies undertaken    series of reports and
                                                                         studies carried out by
                                                                         the Department of
                                                                         Statistics/Observatory
                                                                         (refer to annex 9)
Component C: Strategy Implementation and
Program Coordination
l Achieve integration of SPP/BAJ activities        Monitoring of         Integration of
   and other social programs to reinforce their    SPP/BAJ at central    SPP/BAJ activities
   impact on social development.                   level was limited.    and other social
                                                   Coordination of       programs was more
                                                   social interventions  effective at the
                                                   at provincial levels  provincial level.
                                                   by the governors'
                                                   office was more
                                                   efficient.




                 Output Indicators                     Projected in last     Actual/Latest
                                                              PSR               Estimate
                                                       (December 2002)     (December 2003)
Component A: Promotion Nationale
1. Number of wells and ancillary works built                   88                  80
2. Number of communal latrines built                          121                 121
3. Number of structures built (water
   tanks/drainage structures)                                2,460               2,460
4. Number of social centers built (dormitories,



                                                 - 17 -

    community centers etc.)                                   167                   167
 5. Number of km of feeder roads constructed                 2,412                2,360
 6. Number of ha of forestation                                22                   14
 7. Number of linear meters of water supply
    networks or irrigation canals built                      17,092               15,294
 8. Number of linear meters of boundary wall built           38,031               36,728
 9. Living accommodation constructed for school
    teachers or paramedical staff in number                   167                   167
10. Number of workers enrolled in literacy
    campaigns*                                                  -                    -
11. Number of PN staff trained in the use of PMIS               -                    -
Component B: Statistical Monitoring
1. Fully staffed Observatory with adequate skills   By the end of 2001,
                                                    the Observatory was
                                                    established and        Same situation
                                                    staffed with 9
                                                    high-level staff.
2. Number of studies/reports produced by the        5 studies and 2        17 Reports/studies
Observatory on household living conditions          statistical brochures  and 2 brochures
3. A second LSMS carried out and results analyzed Results were             8 Reports/studies
                                                    published and used by based on the results of
                                                    Government             the LSMS were
                                                    Departments and        published.
                                                    other institutions such
                                                    as the WB, UNDP,
                                                    UNICEF, ILO and
                                                    FNUAP.
Component C: Strategy Implementation and
Program Coordination
1. Number of meetings of all BAJ coordinators and    Annual meetings        Same
focal points from BAJ provinces held by the          held for the
Secretariat.                                         preparation of
                                                     annual reports

2. Number of annual progress reports produced by     Annual reports         Same situation
the Secretariat                                      were prepared with
                                                     delays

3. Two beneficiary assessments conducted             One conducted and      Second beneficiary
                                                     second underway        assessment
                                                                            completed,
                                                                            validation of results
                                                                            by government
                                                                            underway

4. Number of staff trained in the use of the         Nobody trained as      PMIS operational
Program Management Information System (PMIS)         establishment of       and tested in 5
                                                     PMIS was delayed       provinces. 17 staff



                                                 - 18 -

          trained.




- 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
A. Promotion Nationale                                      31.90          42.78              134
B. Statistical Monitoring                                    3.80            2.50              66
C. Strategy Implementation                                   4.50            4.00              89

Total Baseline Cost                                         40.20          49.28
 Physical Contingencies                                      3.80
 Price Contingencies                                         5.50
                         Total Project Costs                49.50          49.28
                  Total Financing Required                  49.50          49.28


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.00             7.90        31.50         0.00         39.40
                                  (0.00)           (4.30)      (18.00)        (0.00)      (22.30)
2. Goods                           1.20             0.70         0.40         0.00          2.30
                                  (1.00)           (0.40)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (1.60)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         5.10         0.00          5.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (4.10)         (0.00)       (4.10)
4. Operating costs                 0.00             0.00         0.00         2.70          2.70
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           1.20             8.60        37.00         2.70         49.50
                                  (1.00)           (4.70)      (22.30)        (0.00)      (28.00)




                                                - 20 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.00               8.50             34.30             0.00             42.80
                                          (0.00)             (4.20)           (17.00)            (0.00)           (21.20)
   2. Goods                                0.00               2.15              0.50             0.00              2.65
                                          (0.00)             (1.72)            (0.40)            (0.00)           (2.12)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              1.43             0.00              1.43
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.43)            (0.00)           (1.43)
   4. Operating costs                      0.00               0.00              0.00             2.40              2.40
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.00              10.65             36.23             2.40             49.28
                                          (0.00)             (5.92)           (18.83)            (0.00)           (24.75)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. Promotion Nationale        22.30        17.50                    21.60         21.18                 96.9     121.0
B. Statistical Monitoring      4.50         3.50                     1.65         2.85                  36.7      81.4
C. Strategy                    1.20         0.50                     1.50         0.50                  125.0    100.0
Implementation




                                                          - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

At project appraisal, no in-depth cost-benefit analysis (NPV or ERR) was undertaken for the rural
infrastructure to be built by the Promotion Nationale (PN) considering that there were few reliable or
cost-effective existing alternatives in Morocco to the PN public works program for generating income and
improving community infrastructure in remote areas. Using capital-intensive techniques to build and
maintain local infrastructure was judged neither socially desirable (since it would miss the
employment-generating target) nor technically feasible (since private firms are not interested in
immobilizing their equipment in areas difficult to access for works of limited scale). Finally, the PN's
well-monitored labor-intensive works, which pay workers at the SMAG, were believed to be the most
cost-effective way to improve rural infrastructure and reduce poverty. The following costs and benefits
were assumed at the appraisal:

Costs
·       For the type of local infrastructure work undertaken by the PN, the private sector would charge
between 30 percent (construction) and 60 percent (feeder roads) more than the PN.
·       A third of the budget would be devoted to feeder road maintenance, which costs about $12,000 per
km.
·       The daily cost per workday created for the activities selected under the project would run between
$5 (for feeder roads) and $23 (for well construction). Given the structure of the works envisaged, the
average cost of the created one-day job would be around $7.

Benefits
·       On average, the wage bill for the unskilled workers who will be recruited will account for 60
percent of the total costs of the activities to be undertaken under the project.
·       The lowest proportion of labor costs in the budget of any site will be for buildings, where they will
represent 50 percent.
·       Typically, the opening of one site will translate into 500 (for the construction of a latrine) to
roughly 3,500 person-days (construction of a community building or opening 1 km of feeder road). In other
words, as most of the works are being done during the three less-active months of the year, each site will
keep active between 10 and 60 persons for three months.

Analysis for the ICR

The cost-effectiveness of the PN implementation method, expected to be the least costly and most
appropriate solution in terms of employment creation, was verified on a sample of 51 projects (22, 17 and
12 projects were visited and analysed in-depth respectively during the technical audits undertaken in March
2000 and May 2002, and the ICR mission in January 2004) of differing nature out of a total of 1,396
projects implemented during the project's period. The PN implementation method combines force account
(workers paid directly by the PN) and contracting of several inputs. Construction materials and equipment
are supplied by contract for a series of construction sites. The same applies to finishing works in buildings
carried out by small-scale contractors.

Average unit costs of PN projects were compared with unit costs of similar projects implemented by other
government departments using the private sector. In addition, average unit costs of PN projects were
compared with those of similar labor-intensive projects implemented in other countries (India, Yemen,
Cambodia and Madagascar). All data are presented in the next table.




                                                      - 22 -

Type of project          Average unit           Average       Unit cost in         Unit cost of
                         costs PN               wage bill     DH of similar        similar
                         projects in DH         as % of       projects built       labor-based
                                                total cost    by private           projects
                                                              sector in            implemented in
                                                              Morocco              other countries
1. Rural roads
1.1 Basic earth road       57,594 DH/km              69%      From 200,000 to      From 6,000 to
construction (without     100 DH per capita                   350,000 DH/km        15,000 US$/km
gravelling)                                                                        (60,000 to
                                                                                   150,000 DH/km)*

1.2 Graveled road          103,808 DH/km             63%      Additional cost
(15 to 20 cm gravel       265 DH per capita                   ranging from         From 5,000 to
layer)                                                        150.000 to           8,000 US$/km
                                                              200.000 DH/km        (50,000 to 80,000
                                                                                   DH/km)**
2. Water supplies
2.1 Water reservoirs         3903 DH/m3              46%     No data available   25 to 50 US$/m3
2.2 Water tanks              1161 DH/m3              53%     for comparison      (250 to 500 DH/
                                                                                 m3) for water tank
3. Buildings such as
communal centers,                                                                From 150 to 200
dormitories, houses for      1824 DH/m2             30%      From 2,500 to 3,000 US$/m2 (1,500 to
teachers /paramedical                                        DH/m2               2,000 DH/m2)
staff
4. Minor works
4.1 Boundary walls
around public                630 DH/rm               35%      No data available    No reference
buildings                                                     for comparison
4.2 Latrines                2268 DH/m2               31%
* Average unit costs of earth-road construction in hilly and flat areas, no embankment required, (Reference is
made to World Bank Technical Paper N°496 Design and Appraisal of Rural Transport Infrastructure, Jerry Lebo &
Dieter Schelling). Considerable variations in average costs per km are normal due to a number of factors including
different topographical areas and project settings, varying amount of earthworks and frequency of cross-drainage
structures.
** Average unit rates for gravel surface; 12 to 15 cm compacted, 3.5 to 4.5 m wide, hauling distance between 2
and 8 km (same reference). Please note that in Morocco, a 5 m wide surface layer of at least 15 cm is placed.

The above table illustrates that:

·        The PN has a comparative advantage in rural road construction: about 80 percent cheaper for earth
road construction and 40 percent cheaper for gravel road construction. This huge difference can be
explained by the reason that the PN uses labor-based techniques that are very appropriate in Morocco, has
long experience in managing construction sites with many laborers, calls on engineers/technicians from the
provincial administration to provide standard designs (in fact, hiring consulting engineers to prepare detail
design studies is not required for low-traffic roads), does not pay VAT and does not need to make a profit
as is needed in the private sector.




                                                       - 23 -

·        Moreover, the cost-effectiveness is also proven by its low per-capita investment of US$10 for basic
earth road construction and US$28 for a 5 m wide gravel road construction (a threshold of US$50 was
used by the Bank in Andra Pradesh India).

·        The average labor-intensity in rural road construction is very high (69 percent for earth road
construction and 63 percent for gravel road construction). In most other countries where rural roads are
constructed using labor-based techniques, this percentage often does not exceed 40 percent. Average unit
costs in other countries seem to be higher as well, although it is difficult to make proper comparisons since
conditions differ.

·        For buildings, the PN operations are on average only 34 percent cheaper, partly explained by the
fact that since 2000, the PN has subcontracted the finishing works on most of its building sites to
small-scale contractors because it had difficulties attracting well-qualified laborers paid at the PN daily
wage of DH57.88. In other countries where similar buildings are constructed under different programs
financed by the Bank, very similar unit costs are found. The wage bill for unskilled workers who are
recruited on building sites accounts for 30 percent of the total project costs, which is correct (main cost
item is construction material).

·        The construction of water tanks is more expensive in Morocco (almost double) than in other
countries with comparable wage level (such as Yemen) as conditions are quite different: (i) water tanks
have a smaller capacity; (ii) they are constructed in concrete and (iii) they are covered in Morocco, which is
not the case elsewhere.

The wage bill for the temporary unskilled/semi- and skilled workers, which were recruited on PN
construction sites, accounts for about 52 percent of total project costs. This is slightly less than expected
(60 percent) since more buildings (accommodation for teachers and paramedical staff, dormitories, etc.),
which have a lower labor percentage (30 percent) than for example rural roads, were included in the PN
program to complement the BAJ Education and Health project.

Given the breakdown of the works completed and the increase in salaries since the start of the project, the
average cost of a created one-day job has risen to US$9.72, which is still very much acceptable.

A total of about 4.5 million person-days were created during the project period. Because of huge demand
for work during the agricultural off-season, the labor force was replaced every fortnight on most sites in
order to provide equal opportunities to everybody. As a result, about 300,000 temporary jobs were created.

The main overall conclusion is that PN operations are still cost-effective, even if PN running costs are
added to the unit costs presented in the above table (estimated in 2000, at just 5.6 percent of its investment
budget). Moreover, it has to be underlined that the quality of the works is very good and sometimes better
than works executed solely by contractors. In a nutshell, the PN remains a valid instrument for the
Government of Morocco, as part of its social safety net, able to generate direct employment in poor
stricken provinces characterized by unemployment and underemployment.




                                                     - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year     Count              Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Jan. - Feb. 1994                4    EDU. SPEC. (2); LAWYER (1);
                                                   DIV. CHIEF (1)
              May 1994                        3    TASK MNG (1); IMPLM. SPEC.
                                                   (1); LAWYER (1)
              October 1994                    2    EDU. SPEC. (2); ST (1)
              February 1995                   2    TASK MNG (1); IMPLM. SPEC.
                                                   (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June 1995                       8     HUM. RES. ECON. (2);
                                                   PUBLIC HLT. SPEC. (1);
                                                   OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                                   (1); STATISTICIAN (1);
                                                   IMPL. SPEC. (1): NCONS
                                                   (1); MISS    (1).
              October 1996                    4    HRE (2); IS (1); ST (1);

 Supervision

              06/30/1997                      2    IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1);           S               S
                                                   TM (1)
              03/26/1998                      2    PR. OPERATIONS OFFICER              S               S
                                                   (1); TASK MNG. (1)a
              06/26/1998                      1    IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1)            S               S
              10/31/1998                      1    SENIOR STATISTICIAN (1)             S               S
              07/14/1999                      4    TEAM LEADER (1);                    S               S
                                                   OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                                   OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                                   SR. STATISTICIAN (1)
              02/16/2001                      2    TEAM LEADER (1);                    S               S
                                                   IMPLEMENTATION/FINANC.
                                                   (1)
              11/12/2001                      1    TASK MANAGER (1)                    S               S
              06/15/2002                      2    TEAM LEADER (1); SPEC. ON           S               S
                                                   PUBLIC WORKS (1)
              07/15/2003                      2    TEAM LEADER (1); BENEF.             S               S
                                                   ASSESS. SPECIAL (1)

 ICR
              January 2004                    2     PROJECT MANAGER (1);
                                                    IMPL. SPEC. (1)

DS=Division Chief; ES= Education Specialist; FMS=Financial Management Specialist; HRE=Human Resources
Economist; IS=Implementation Specialist; MISCONS=Monitoring and Information System Specialist;
OA=Operations Analyst; OO=Operations Officer; PHS=Public Health Specialist; PM=Project Manager;
SDS=Social Development Specialist; ST=Statistician.




                                                    - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                         Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                      US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                       --                              81.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                            --                                 --
  Supervision                                      --                             456.0
  ICR                                              --                              30.0
  Total                                            --                             567.7
Sources of funds include trust funds. Amount for identification/preparation includes also appraisal/negotiations.
The Cost Accounting System no longer provides staff-week data.




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Employment creation
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Loan Agreement, September 27, 1996.
 2. Amendment to the Loan Agreement, July 31, 2000.
 3. Staff Appraisal Report, May 9, 1996 (Report No. 15075-MOR).
 4. Beneficiary Assessment, January 2000.
 5. Beneficiary Assessment (draft), April 2004.
 6. Technical Audit Report of the Labor Promotion Component, March 2000.
 7. Technical Audit Report of the Labor Promotion Component, June 2002.
 8. Kingdom of Morocco, Social Protection Note, MNSHD, August 2001.
 9. Poverty Study (Report no. 28223-MOR).
10. Supervision Mission Aide-Mémoires and PSRs.




                                                - 29 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Report

  ROYAUME DU MAROC
                                    HAUT COMMISSARIAT AU PLAN
                                  DIRECTION DE LA PLANIFICATION

                    PROJET PROMOTION NATIONALE, SUiVI STATISTIQUE ET
                           COORDINATION DES PROGRAMMES SOCIAUX




                                  RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION DU
                      PREMIER PROGRAMME DE PRIORITES SOCIALES (BAJI)

                                                  MAI 2004




                                               SOMMAIRE

                                                Introduction

 I- Bilan des réalisations

 l. Rappel des principaux objectifs du BAJ 1
 1.1 La Promotion Nationale
 1.2 Le Suivi Statistique
 1.3 La coordination, le suivi et l'évaluation du programme
 2. Principales réalisations
 2.1. La Promotion Nationale
 22. Le suivi statistique
 2.3. La Coordination, le suivi et l'évaluation du programme

 IT- Evaluation de la conception et de la mise en oeuvre du BAJI
 I.La conception du programme BAJI
 2. La mise en oeuvre du programme BAJI
 3. Evaluation des objectifs
 4. Performances de la Banque mondiale



 INTRODUCTION

          Ce rapport porte sur l'évaluation globale du Programme de Priorités Sociales (BAJI)aux
 niveaux de ses composantes Promotion Nationale, Suivi Statistique et Coordination des Programmes
 Sociaux. Il intervient au terme de la période d'exécution étalée entre 1996/97 et 2003.

          Le rapport comprend deux parties. La première présente les objectifs du projet et le niveau des
 réalisations. La deuxième partie concerne 1'évaluation des objectifs atteints au niveau de la conception



                                                   - 30 -

et de la mise en oeuvre, ainsi que les enseignements tirés de la coordination intra et intersectorielle et de
la contribution de la Banque mondiale au processus de réalisation de ce programme.

         Le programme BAJI constitue la première phase de la mise en oeuvre de la stratégie de
développement social, élaborée par les pouvoirs publics en 1993 Celle-ci s'articule autour de trois axes
prioritaires:
         -L'élargissement    de l'accès des populations défavorisées aux services sociaux de base,
notamment par l'accroissement du taux de desserte en eau potable et d'assainissement, l'élargissement de
l'accès aux services de santé de base, l'accroissement du taux de scolarisation au niveau de
l'enseignement fondamental en particulier dans le milieu rural, et le développement des programmes de
logement social.

     -L'accroissement des opportunités d'emploi et de revenus de la population par le maintien d'un
cadre macro-économique approprié, la levée d'obstacles institutionnels et réglementaires à la création
d'emplois, et le renforcement des mécanismes d'intermédiation et d'insertion dans le marché du travail.

         -Le renforcement des programmes d'assistance ou de protection sociale, par un ciblage des
programmes d'assistance et d'aide sociales sur les catégories vulnérables, l'augmentation des -ressources
réservées à ces programmes et une gestion efficace du système des filets de sécurité.

I- Bilan des réalisations

1. Rappel des principaux objectifs du BAJI
         BAJI se compose de trois projets dont l'exécution intéresse quatorze provinces cibles: AI
Hoceima, AI Haouz, Azilal, Chefchaouen, Chichaoua, El Kelaâ des Sraghna, Essaouira, Ouarzazate,
Safi, Sidi Kacem, Taroudannt, Taza, Tiznit et Zagora. Il comprend trois projets:
         - Education de base;
         - Santé de base;
         - Promotion Nationale, Coordination et Suivi des programmes sociaux.

         Le projet Promotion Nationale, Coordination et Suivi des Programmes Sociaux s'articule autour
de trois principaux axes:
         -L 'amélioration de l 'infrastructure de base et la réduction du chômage en milieu rural dans les
zones d'intervention bénéficiaires des actions de l'éducation et de la santé dans le cadre du BAJI, en
faisant appel à des techniques de haute intensité de main d'oeuvre ;
         - La création d'un organisme ayant la capacité de suivre et d'analyser en permanence les
conditions de vie de la population ;
         - La coordination et la sensibilisation sur la situation Socio-économique du pays et des actions
correctrices requises ;

         Ce projet comprend trois composantes. La première concerne le renforcement des activités de la
Promotion Nationale visant à faire reculer la pauvreté et promouvoir l'emploi. La deuxième composante
vise la mise en place d'instruments institutionnels et techniques nécessaires pour suivre et analyser les
conditions sociales et les programmes dont l'objectif est d'améliorer ces conditions. Quant à la dernière
composante elle englobe l'assistance à un organisme de l'administration centrale pour la coordination des
différentes actions entreprises dans le cadre du Premier Programme de Priorités Sociales (BAJI) et de la
stratégie nationale de développement social et pour l'information des décideurs.

         Les principaux objectifs assignés à chaque composante s'articulent sur la réalisation des actions


                                                  - 31 -

suivantes:

1.1 La Promotion Nationale
         L'intervention de cette institution comprend le renforcement sélectif des travaux à forte intensité
de main d'oeuvre de nature à valoriser les interventions en matière d'éducation et de santé prévues au
Programme. L'objectif est de créer des emplois temporaires sur des chantiers spécifiques, soigneusement
sélectionnées en milieu rural des provinces cibles, qui vont permettre de générer des revenus, développer
la monétarisation des zones d'intervention et contribuer à construire, entretenir et équiper les communes
rurales bénéficiaires d'infrastructure de base (canaux d'irrigation, pistes, puits, latrines).

         De même, le projet prévoit le renforcement de la capacité institutionnelle de suivi des activités
de la Promotion Nationale au moyen de la mise en place d'un système d'information et de gestion de
programme, ainsi que d'autres systèmes établis par l'unité de coordination du Programme, ainsi que la
participation de la Promotion Nationale aux campagnes d'alphabétisation pour des chantiers importants
et de longue durée.

1.2 Le Suivi Statistique
         Cette composante comprend deux sous composantes importantes et complémentaires.
         La première concerne la mise en place d'un Observatoire au sein de la Direction de la
Statistique du Ministère de la Population (Actuellement, Haut Commissariat au Plan) pour suivre le
niveau de vie des ménages et analyser les effets des mesures sociales sur le bien-être de la population. A
cet effet, l'Observatoire a pour mandat de suivre l'impact de la Stratégie de Développement Social et de
proposer des actions correctives. Le projet avait prévu:
         - Le recrutement de consultants locaux et internationaux afin- d'effectuer les études et les
analyses prévues au programmes de travail de l'Observatoire;
         - La formation des cadres du service central et des services provinciaux de l'Observatoire à
l'analyse socioéconomique;
         - L'organisation des séminaires de formation et de sensibilisation et des ateliers sur la diffusion
des données pour leurs utilisateurs;
         - L'établissement et la gestion d'une banque de données spécialement consacrée aux statistiques
sur le niveau de vie au Maroc ;
         - La dotation du service central de l'Observatoire de la documentation technique, de
l'équipement informatique, des capacités de diffusion de l'information et des études et l'acquisition de
mobilier de bureau et de véhicules nécessaires.

         La deuxième sous composante porte sur la constitution d'une batterie d'indicateurs de base pour
l'évaluation du programme. Elle devrait permettre de collecter les données requises pour établir les
indicateurs socio-économiques clés nécessaires à la planification, au suivi à et l'analyse des programmes
et des politiques économiques et sociales.

         1.3 La coordination, le suivi et l'évaluation du programme

         La troisième composante du projet a pour objectif l'appui au Secrétariat du programme BAJI,
domicilié à la Direction de la Programmation du Ministère de la Population (Actuellement, Direction de
la Planification du Haut Commissariat au Plan), dont le rôle majeur est:
         - Le suivi de l'impact des trois projets du programme BAJI;
         - L'établissement d'un système d'information et de gestion du programme et d'un système
d'information géographique;
         - La coordination et la synchronisation des actions recommandées dans le cadre de la Stratégie


                                                   - 32 -

de Développement Social et l'information du Comité de Suivi de la Stratégie de Développement Social,
sur les progrès accomplis;
         - La préparation de la documentation nécessaire pour suivre, réajuster et corriger la Stratégie de
Développement Social;
         - La mobilisation des partenaires internes et externes pour canaliser les ressources nécessaires à
la réalisation des objectifs de la Stratégie.

         En relation avec les attributions du Secrétariat, il était prévu, dans le cadre de l'Accord de prêt
de la Banque mondiale, que le Secrétariat réalise les tâches découlant de ces attributions et conduise les
principales activités suivantes ;
         - La mise en place d'un système intégré d'information géographique et de gestion de programme
;
         - La préparation d'un rapport annuel de synthèse multisectoriel relatif aux progrès réalisés par
le programme BAJI ;
         - La réalisation de deux évaluations auprès des bénéficiaires; les résultats de la première devant
être disponibles pour la revue à mi-parcours et la seconde au terme du projet.




                                                 - 33 -

2- Principales réalisations

         2.1. La Promotion Nationale
         Le bilan des activités réalisées par la Promotion Nationale dans les 14 provinces cibles durant
la période 1996-2003 pour appuyer les efforts de la scolarisation et de l'amélioration de la situation
sanitaire se résume comme suit:
         - La construction de 90 Dar taleb, 166 logements pour instituteurs et infirmiers, 6 maisons de
jeunes, 10 foyers féminins, 7 salles multifonctions, 189 mûrs de clôture et 112 blocs sanitaires pour les
écoles rurales ;
         - La réalisation de 2.397 km de pistes pour le désenclavement du monde rural et 5.449 ouvrages
d'art et mûrs de soutènement, un fossé bétonné et un ouvrage en gabion;
         - La réalisation de 59.086 ml d'adduction en eau potable, 2 seguias, 14 sources, 28 puits, 200
citernes, réservoirs, bassins et châteaux d'eau pour alléger relativement les conditions difficiles
d'approvisionnement en eau, et limiter la corvée supportée par les enfants (notamment les jeunes filles);
         - La construction d'une salle de soins;
         - Le reboisement de 14 Ha.
         L'enveloppe budgétaire mobilisée pour la réalisation du programme est de 427T686.448,27
DH. Au 21 décembre 2003, les émissions ont atteint 402.881,10 DH, soit 94,2%. La différence est en
cours de paiement.
         Les actions réalisées ont permis la création de 4,3 millions de journées de travail et la
distribution d'une masse salariale évaluée à 190 millions de DH.

         2.2. Le Suivi statistique

         La composante Suivi statistique a consisté en la mise en place d'un Observatoire des conditions
de vie de la population et la réalisation d'une enquête sur le niveau de vie des ménages (voir annexe).
         L'Observatoire comprend quatre services et dispose de 7 ingénieurs, un informatiste spécialisé,
un administrateur économiste, 2 techniciens spécialisés, 2 secrétaires et 3 agents.
         Entre 1997 et 2003, l'Observatoire a élaboré plusieurs études et rapports qui s'inscrivent dans le
cadre de ses attributions, à savoir la contribution à la valorisation des données socioéconomiques dans le
domaine du suivi des niveaux et conditions de vie de la population.
         L'activité de l'Observatoire a été étendue à la collaboration avec d'autres départements
directement concernés par la recherche - développement, en matière d'économie des niveaux et
conditions de vie.
         Quant à l'enquête nationale sur le niveau de vie des ménages 1998/99, le rapport relatif aux
premiers résultats a été publié en septembre 1999, soit six mois après la date d'achèvement de la collecte
des données sur le terrain. La valorisation des données de cette enquête a été confiée à l'Observatoire des
conditions de vie qui s'est chargé des activités qui permettent à l'ensemble des institutions
gouvernementales et non gouvernementales d'exploiter les données en question pour leurs propres
besoins, et par l'encadrement des études basées sur les données de l'enquête.

         2. 3. La Coordination, le suivi et l'évaluation du programme

         La composante Coordination, suivi et évaluation du programme BAJI a été exécutée par la
Direction de la Planification. Les réalisations, depuis le lancement du programme en 1996/97, ont été
articulées autour d'un certain nombre d'actions axées sur l'animation, la coordination technique et
institutionnelle et la synthèse. Elles se présentent comme suit:
         - L'organisation d'un atelier d'échange d'expériences et de formation en informatique (6-10


                                                  - 34 -

janvier 1997) auquel ont participé tous les ministères impliqués;
         - L'établissement, en coopération avec les Ministères impliqués d'un rapport relatif à la
programmation triennale du BAJI (1998/2001) comprenant les actions physiques par commune et par
province relative à l'Education de base, la Santé de base et la Promotion Nationale;
         - La réalisation du système informatique et de son schéma directeur, en tant qu'instrument de
suivi et d'évaluation du BAJI ;
         - L'élaboration par l'intermédiaire du C.E.R.E.D, des projections démographiques communales
à l'horizon 2010 dans les 14 provinces ciblées par BAJI;
         - La conception, la réalisation et la mise en place au niveau du Secrétariat d'un Système
informatisé de Suivi et d'évaluation des réalisations du BAJI, et la formation du personnel chargé de ce
suivi au sein du Secrétariat et des 14 points focaux;
         - L'acquisition d'équipements destinés au Secrétariat et aux quatorze points focaux provinciaux
;
         - L'acquisition de véhicules au profit des points focaux ;
         - La réalisation de l'étude, à mi-parcours de l'exécution du BAJI, relative au suivi et a
l'évaluation des réalisations du Programme BAJI ;
         - L'organisation des visites de suivi des réalisations du BAJI au niveau provincial ;
         - L'élaboration, par le Secrétariat, en collaboration avec les départements concernés, d'un
document de «stratégie de développement social intégré », se proposant de cibler une trentaine de
provinces qui connaissent un déficit en matière d'accès aux services sociaux de base (éducation de base,
santé de base, désenclavement, adduction en eau potable, électrification et protection sociale), la lutte
contre l'analphabétisme et la promotion de l'emploi des jeunes chômeurs;
         - L'installation du Système d'Information Géographique et formation du personnel du
Secrétariat ;
         - La :mise en place d'un Système Informatique Intégré de Suivi du BAJI (SISIG) au Secrétariat,
dans les cinq provinces pilotes (Ai Haouz, Chichaoua, Essaouira, Safi et Tiznit) et au siège des
Directions Régionales de Marrakech Tensift, AI Haouz, Doukkala Abda et Souss- Massa-Drâa ;
         - L'acquisition du matériel informatique et des licences correspondantes au SISTIG pour le
Secrétariat, les cinq provinces pilotes et les points focaux du département du Plan ;
         - La constitution d'unités d'exploitation des données dans les cinq provinces pilotes composées
de 17 cadres ;
         - L'organisation, depuis 1996, de treize réunions de la Commission Technique interministérielle
de Suivi du BAJI, composée des coordonnateurs sectoriels nationaux du BAJI dont neuf ont été tenues
avec la Participation des responsables - L'élaboration du rapport d'exécution annuelle du BAJI pour les
exercices budgétaires 1996-97, 1997-98, 1998-99, 1999-2000,2001 et 2002 ;
         - La diffusion des résultats de l'étude de suivi et d'évaluation à mi-parcours des réalisations du
BAJI ;
         - La réalisation de la deuxième étude d'évaluation de l'impact global des réalisations du BAJI
sur les populations bénéficiaires.

-II- Evaluation de la conception et de la mise en oeuvre du BAJI

         1. La conception du programme BAJI

         La conception du programme BAJI s'inscrit dans le cadre de la stratégie de développement
social, adoptée par le gouvernement, en 1993. Elle vise à améliorer les conditions de vie de la population
et à réduire les disparités sociales et spatiales.




                                                  - 35 -

         C'est ainsi que les travaux du Comité Technique interministériel menés en 1994 et 1995, dont le
secrétariat est assuré par 1a Direction de la Planification du Département du Plan, ont abouti à un
consensus sur le choix de quatorze provinces jugées les moins favorisées. Les supports informationnels
et institutionnels ont permis, par ailleurs, de lancer la mise en oeuvre et le suivi de ce programme.

         Au niveau central, en plus du Comité présidé par le Premier Ministre, un comité technique
interministériel des départements du Plan, des Finances, des Affaires Générales du Gouvernement, de
l'Education Nationale, de la Santé, de l'Intérieur (Promotion Nationale) et de l'Emploi et des Affaires
Sociales (Alphabétisation), a été constitué pour programmer et suivre l'exécution du programme.
Chaque département avait nommé un coordonnateur sectoriel du projet.

         Au niveau provincial, des points focaux ont été désignés pour constituer les interfaces du
Secrétariat à l'échelle locale. Le point focal appuie le comité provincial constitué à cet effet et présidé
par le gouverneur de la province concernée, et ce afin de veiller à la coordination intersectorielle et au
suivi de la mise en oeuvre des actions du BAJI.
         La Banque mondiale a participé à la mise en place initiale de telles structures ainsi que du
programme BAJi lui-même, en assistant à la première réunion, organisée à Rabat le 17 octobre 1996, en
présence des Ministres et des gouverneurs concernés.

         Le principal enseignement tiré de cette phase porte sur la nécessité de développer le système
national d'information à un niveau très fin, afin de mieux appréhender l'élaboration des programmes
intégrés, en accordant davantage d'importance à la communication et à la participation.

2-La mise en oeuvre du programme BAJI

         L'exécution du programme BAJI a connu une évolution différenciée par
période et par secteur.

         Tout d'abord, le rôle assigné à la Promotion Nationale en tant qu'instrument
d'appui aux projets d'éducation et de santé de base a été confronté aux problèmes de programmation de
ces deux autres projets, ce qui a retardé l'intervention de cette institution, surtout que la délégation des
crédits a connu des retards importants lors des premières années d'exécution de ce programme. De
même, les restrictions faites, au départ, pour l'intervention de cette institution et les ressources qui lui
ont été affectées, ont entravé la prise d'initiatives pour l'appui aux provinces du BAJI.

         Au niveau du Secrétariat, la multitude des activités qui lui sont assignées, en tant que Division
des Programmes Sociaux, au sein de la Direction de la Planification, et en tant que Direction du
Programme de Développement Humain Durable et de Lutte contre la Pauvreté, en plus de la
coordination du BAJI, n'ont pas facilité la mission qui lui a été assignée, par insuffisance de personnel.
De plus, les problèmes de coordination intra sectorielle se sont répercutés sur les travaux du comité
interministériel et sur les délais d'élaboration du rapport d'exécution annuelle, surtout que 1es différents
départements étaient confrontés aux problèmes de circulation de l'information, entre les niveaux central
et provincial. Ainsi, les informations, provenant du niveau local, devaient être validées et complétées
par celles disponibles au niveau central.
         Néanmoins, la gestion du programme a évolué positivement au fil des années, grâce aux
réunions périodiques de la commission interministérielle technique de suivi du BAJI.
         Quant aux points focaux, les conditions de travail ont constitué des contraintes majeures pour
les travaux de coordination à l'échelle locale, notamment dans les cas où les cadres affectés à certains



                                                    - 36 -

points focaux du programme BAJI ne relèvent pas du département du Plan ou ne sont pas domiciliés
dans la province.

3- Evaluation des objectifs du BAJI

         L'évaluation des objectifs du BAJI montre que les actions prévues, au niveau des différentes
composantes du projet, ont en général été réalisées.

         Il est relevé, toutefois, que la contribution de la Promotion Nationale est restée marquée par la
part importante du budget allouée aux chantiers d'opportunités occasionnelles (36,7% en 2002), alors
que l'objectif arrêté au terme de ce programme est de 2 0%. Les raisons sont multiples, notamment le
caractère incompressible de l'effectif employé dans ces chantiers et la valorisation des salaires minima
au cours de la période d'exécution du BAJI.

         Concernant la coordination, les insuffisances constatées sont, en général, dues à la complexité
de cette fonction elle-même. Quant au retard dans l'achèvement du système d'information géographique,
il est dû, en partie, à des facteurs exogènes. En effet, les experts de la Banque ont amené les
responsables du Haut Commissariat au Plan à reconsidérer la conception et la mise en oeuvre de ce
système, comme cela sera expliqué plus loin. Cependant, l'appui de la Banque a permis de faire aboutir
sa réalisation et son opérationnalisation dans cinq provinces pilotes du BAJI.

4- Performances de la Banque mondiale

         La contribution de la Banque mondiale aux différentes phases du programme a été positive,
notamment en terme de suivi général, mais a été marquée par des faits qui ont affecté la pérennité des
actions entreprises et la coordination du programme.

         En effet, le suivi de l'exécution du projet par la Banque a connu des changements parmi les
experts, ce qui n'a pas favorisé la continuité dans le suivi de certaines actions programmées. A titre
d'exemple, la conception du système d'information géographique a dû être révisée, suite aux
propositions des experts de la Banque. Il en est ainsi de la proposition de fusionner le système de suivi
informatique des réalisations du BAJI (élaboré par la Société IMEG) et le système d'information
géographique (élaboré par la société CADTECH). Ceci explique en grande partie le retard enregistré
dans la mise en place de ce système. Il est à noter, cependant, que l'assistance de la dernière responsable
de la Banque mondiale et sa conviction quant à la portée de tels systèmes, pour le suivi de programmes
similaires et la promotion de la planification locale, ont favorisé l'aboutissement de la réalisation de ce
système.

         La deuxième remarque tient au fait que les missions de la Banque mondiale omettent de tenir le
Secrétariat informé de ses aides-mémoires et de l'associer aux travaux des experts affectés aux projets
éducation et santé de base. En effet, lors des missions effectuées par les experts de la Banque mondiale,
pour ces projets, aucun contact avec le Secrétariat n'a été programmé pour collaborer et s'informer sur
le déroulement de la mission et participer aux réunions et visites de terrain.

         Sous réserve de remédier à ces insuffisances, le rôle de la Banque mondiale pourrait être
capital, dans le renforcement de l'élaboration de programmes intégrés au Maroc. A cet égard, la
conception d'un programme similaire à BAJI pourrait capitaliser l'expérience de ce premier programme,
notamment dans le cadre de l'engagement du pays à la déclaration du millénaire pour le développement.



                                                   - 37 -

      Il est à rappeler, à cet égard, que le gouvernement a élaboré en 1999 une stratégie de
développement social intégré, visant à mettre en oeuvre un programme qui cible 29 provinces (dont les
14 provinces du BAJI) considérées comme prioritaires dans toute politique de développement social du
pays. La couverture sectorielle y est plus élargie, et nul doute que l'adoption de l'approche BAJ comme
démarche opérationnelle pour la mise en oeuvre de cette stratégie ne peut qu'améliorer l'efficacité et
l'efficience des actions programmées. Un tel choix nécessite, bien entendu, le renforcement des
mécanismes de coordination et de suivi qui doivent constituer le support indispensable pour tout
programme intégré.




                                                 - 38 -

                  ANNEXE - RAPPORT FINAL D'EXECUTION DE LA SOUS
                  COMPOSANTE "SUIVI STATISTIQUE" DU BAJI

         La composante suivi statistique du BAJI a été exécutée par la Direction de la statistique du
Haut Commissariat au Plan. Elle a consisté en la mise en place d'un Observatoire des conditions de vie
de la population et la réalisation d'une enquête sur le niveau de vie des ménages. Les activités réalisées
par cette composante, de 1996/97 à 2003, font l'objet de ce rapport.

I. OBSERVATOIRE DES CONDITIONS DE VIE DE LA POPULATION

1.1. Statut, attributions et organigramme de l'Observatoire

De 1997 à 2001, l'Observatoire a fonctionné en tant que structure interne faisant partie de la Direction
de la Statistique. En 2002, cette structure a été officiellement érigée en un Observatoire des conditions
de vie de la population, rattaché administrativement au Secrétariat Général du Haut Commissariat au
Plan. La sous-composante "mise en place d'un observatoire des conditions de vie de la population" s'est,
en fait, concrétisée par la fixation du statut, des
attributions et de l'organigramme pérennisant. cette unité de recherches et d'analyses socio-économiques.

§ L'Observatoirealestatutd'uneDivisionmandatéedesattributions
suivantes:
         - Conception, analyse et suivi des indicateurs de niveau de vie de la population ;
         - Elaboration de bilans statistiques périodiques et réalisation d'études thématiques sur les
conditions de vie de la population ;
         - Participation à la réalisation d'études sur les stratégies et les politiques d'atténuation des
disparités sociales.

§ Ancrageadministratifdel'Observatoiredesconditionsdeviedelapopulation

                                            Secrétariat Général du
                                         Haut Commissariat au Plan

                                         [Direction de la Statistique]



                            Observatoire des conditions de vie de la population




                                                   - 39 -

1.2. Moyens humains et informatiques
Sachant que l'Observatoire bénéficie de toute la logistique de la Direction de la Statistique (imprimerie,
réseau, inter et intra - net, moyens de communication et de transport, ... ), cette structure dispose, en
outre, de l'ensemble des moyens humains et informatiques (plus de dix cadres) et informatiques (un
micro-ordinateurs par cadre) recommandés par la Stratégie de développement social. Ces moyens sont
les suivants:
* Moyens humains:
- 3 ingénieurs, statisticiens- économistes'
- 2 ingénieurs, statisticiens - démographes
- 1 informatiste - spécialisé
- 1 administrateur - économiste
- 2 ingénieurs en statistique et économie appliquée
- 2 techniciens spécialisés
- 2 secrétaires
- 3 agents, personnel de soutien
* Parc informatique:
- 12 micro-ordinateurs,
- 1 imprimante réseau,
- 5 imprimantes,
- 1 micro portable.

Page 2 sur 7 / Rapport final d'exécution de la sous composante "Suivi statistique"

1.3. Etudes et rapports réalisés, de 1997 à 2003

Les études et rapports élaborés par l'Observatoire des conditions de vie de la population, depuis sa mise
en place en 1997 jusqu'en 2003, s'inscrivent dans l'essence de ses attributions, à savoir la contribution à
la valorisation des données socio-économiques dans le domaine de suivi des niveaux et conditions de vie
de la population.

§ Lesétudesetrapportsréalisésdurantlapériode1997-2003sont:
     1. Situation socio-économique des provinces cibles du BAJ 1, 1997
     2. Demande de soins de santé dans les provinces cibles du BAJ: Niveau et déterminants, 1998
     3. Priorités sociales nationales: Pluralité et différenciation spatiale, 1998
    4. Indicateurs de suivi du BAJ 1, 1998
    5. Indicateurs de suivi du 3AJ 1, 1999
    6. Condition socio-économique de la femme au Maroc, 1999
    7. Les emplois du temps de la femme au Maroc, 1999
    8. Education - formation et opportunités d'emploi, 2000
    9. Indicateurs de suivi des programmes sociaux, 2000.
    8. Analyse du profil et de la dynamique de la pauvreté: un fondement de l'atténuation des
dénuements, 2001.
    9. Les moins de 18 an-s au Maroc, 2001.
    10. Indicateurs de suivi des programmes sociaux, 2001.
    11. Population défavorisée: profil, schéma de consommation et source de revenu, 2002
    12. Répartition des niveaux de revenu au Maroc, 2002
    13. Education, formation et niveau de vie, 2002.



                                                    - 40 -

    14. Accessibilité aux soins de santé et niveau de vie, 2002.
    15. Elasticités - revenu de la demande des ménages, 2002.
    16. Indicateurs de suivi des programmes sociaux, 2002,
    17. Distribution sociale des dépenses de consommation, 2003
    18. Indicateurs de suivi des programmes sociaux, 2003
    19. Actes de la journée d'études "Fondement statistique pour la lutte contre la pauvreté" , 2003
   20. Développement régional: bilan et disparités

1.4. Activités de formation, de recherches et de coopération

L'activité de l'Observatoire ne s'est pas limitée à la production d'études socioéconomiques; elle s'est
étendue à la collaboration avec d'autres
départements directement concernés par la recherche - développement en matière d'économie des
niveaux et conditions de vie. Il s'agit, entre autres, des activités suivantes:
      - Formation des Directeurs Régionaux, des Chefs de département au CERED, et des Chefs de
Services de la Direction Régionale du Grand Casablanca sur l'approche de la pauvreté et de la
vulnérabilité économique;
        - Elaboration d'un bilan socio-économique régional pour la Commission Supérieure de la
Population, pour le CERED;
     - Participation à l'élaboration du rapport des premiers résultats de l'enquête nationale sur le secteur
informel par le traitement des données et la rédaction des chapitres sur 'les caractéristiques des
ménages" et les "dimensions institutionnelles', Direction de la Statistique ;
     - Elaboration d'une approche méthodologique d'estimation d'une échelle d'équivalent - adulte, pour
l'actualisation de l'approche de ]a pauvreté ;
       - Elaboration d'une approche d'estimation de l'indicateur de développement humain au niveau
régionale (IDH), pour la Direction de la Planification ;
* Participation à l'activité des commissions nationales sur:
              le développement humain durable' et la lutte contre la pauvreté (PNUD et Direction de la
Planification) ;
             les objectifs du millénaire pour le développement (PNUD et Direction de la Planification ;
             le régime d'assistance médicale aux économiquement défavorisés, Ministère de la Santé ;
             le financement de l'assurance maladie obligatoire, Ministère de la Santé ;
             le travail des enfants, UNICEF.

1.5 Programme de travail 2004
Depuis le l er janvier 2004, l'Observatoire des conditions de vie de la population est doté par la loi des
finances d'un budget spécifique. Il figure sur le budget du Haut Commissariat au Plan en tant que
Paragraphe ayant des objectifs à réaliser durant l'année budgétaire 2004. Le tableau suivant synthétise
le programme de travail lié à ces objectifs.




                                                   - 41 -

Table 1 Programme de travail de l'Observatoire des conditions de la
population, en 2004.

Paragraphe                   Nature de l'objectif                       Indicateur de
                                                                        l'objectif
                             Suivi de l'évolution des                   - 500 exemplaires de
                             conditions de vie, en élaborant la         la brochure
                             brochure Indicateurs de
                             suivi des programmes sociaux, 2004 ».
                             Elaboration d'une base de                  1000 CD
                             données et d'une carte sur la - sur les    (regroupant et la base et la
                             niveaux de vie pauvreté monétaire au       carte)
                             niveau
                             et leur répartition communal.
Réalisation de bilans        Traitement, analyse et                       -     500 exemplaires
études et recherches sur les dissémination des résultats de                   du rapport des résultats
niveaux de vie et leur       l'étude sur le besoin des                        détailles
répartition spatiale et      institutions non-gouvernementales en
sociale                      analyses
                             et études socio-économiques.
                             Elaboration d'une étude: « les formes de   - 750 exemplaires de l'étude
                             pauvreté: une mise à jour du profil des
                             populations à risque ->.
                             Elaboration d'une étude:                    - 500 exemplaires de l'étude
                             « Secteur informel: préalables de
                             modernisation et
                             de dynamisation ».


II. ENQUETE NATIONALE SUR LE NIvEAU DE VIE DES MENAGBS 1998/99

Le rapport sur les premiers résultats de l'ENNVM 1998/1999 a été publie en Septembre 1999, soit six
mois après la date d'achèvement de la collecte des données sur le terrain. Par la suite, la Direction de la
Statistique a confié la valorisation des données à l'Observatoire des conditions de vie et la sous
composante « ENNVM 1998/99 » s'est chargée des activités qui permettent à l'ensemble des institutions
gouvernementales et non-gouvernementales d'exploiter les données de l'enquête en question pour leurs
propres besoins. Les activités élaborées dans le cadre de cette sous-composante sont présentées dans ce
qui suit.

2.1. Activités réalisées durant la période 1998-2003

Ces activités sont:
§ Conceptiondudossierméthodologique,formationdupersonneldecollecteetréalisationdela
collecte des données auprès d'un échantillon de 5131 ménages, en 1998/99 ;
§ Saisie,contrôledecohérenceetapurementdesdonnéespourlebesoinduRapportdespremiers
résultats, 1999 ;
§ ElaborationduRapport"Enquêtesnationalessurleniveaudevie1998/99:Rapportdespremiers
résultats", 1999;



                                                 - 42 -

§ Apurementdesdonnéesrelativesàl'ensembledesthèmesabordésparl'Enquête,envuedevaloriser
toutes les données recueillies, 1999-2001;
§ Lamiseàladispositiondesutilisateursinternesdetouslesfichiersdel'Enquête.Ils'agit
essentiellement de la Division de la Comptabilité Nationale (actuellement Direction de la Comptabilité
nationale), de la Division des Indices de la Direction de la Statistique, et de l'Observatoire des conditions
de vie de la population.
§ Lapoursuitedelasatisfactiondesbesoinsdesautresutilisateursexternesparlamiseàleur
dispositions des fichiers demandés. La liste des bénéficiaires s'est ainsi étendue aux institutions et
départements suivants:
- Banque mondiale
- CERED: centre de recherches et des études démographiques
- INSEA: Institut national de statistiques et d'économie appliquée
- ONICL: Office nationale interprofessionnelle des céréales et des
légumineuses
- ONEP: Office nationale de l'eau potable

Page 6 sur 7 I Rapport final d'exécution de la sous composante "Suivi statistique"

- Ministère de la Santé
- Ministère du Tourisme
- Ministère de l'Habitat
- Et divers universitaires et chercheurs
2.2. Encadrement statistique des études basées sur l'ENNVM 1998/99

L'exploitation des données de l'ENNVM 1998/99 a donné lieu à une riche littérature sur l'économie des
niveaux de vie au Maroc. Les Rapports et Etudes élaborés sur la base de cette enquête couvrent la quasi
-totalité des dimensions sociales et économiques des conditions de vie. L'apport de la Direction de la
Statistique est fondamental en termes d'encadrement statistique (élaboration de fichiers d'analyse et
exploitation des données) des utilisateurs des données de l'Enquête en question. Pour éviter toute
redondance, la liste suivante est limitée aux rapports et études élaborés par des départements autres que
la Direction de la Statistique et l'Observatoire des conditions de vie de la population. Cette liste n'est pas
exhaustive dans la mesure où l'utilisation des données de cette enquête- dans l'analyse des
problématiques sociales et économiques se poursuit encore. Il s'agit de ce qui suit:
- Mise à jour de la pauvreté au Maroc, Volumes 1 & 2, Banque Mondiale, 2001.
- Rapport National sur le développement humain 2001-2002: Gouvernance et Développement local,
Direction de la Planification et PNUD.
- Les objectifs du millénaires pour le développement, 2003, Direction de la Planification et PNUD.
- Etude sur le financement de la réforme de la couverture médicale, Ministère de l'économie, des
finances et de la privatisation, et Banque Mondiale, 2002.
- Comprendre le travail des enfants au Maroc, Banque Mondiale, UNICEF, BIT, IPEC, 2003.
- Etude actuarielle relative au projet de régime d'assistance médicale aux économiquement faibles
(RAMED), Ministère de la Santé, 2002.
- Cahiers de Recherches de l'équipe MIMAP (INSEA).Femme, pauvreté et comportement
démographique et sanitaire, Ligue des Pays Arabes, 2002.
- Rapport de la Commission Nationale de la Population, 'Lutte contre la pauvreté", 2001, CERED.


ROYAUME DU MAROC
       Rabat, le 20/05/2004



                                                  - 43 -

                                                       ---
                                       HAUT COMMISSARIAT AU PLAN
                                     DIRECTION DE LA PLANIFICATION
                                                       ---

                       Remarques relatives au rapport d'achèvement du Projet

              Coordination et Suivi des Programmes Sociaux et Promotion Nationale
         La lecture du rapport d'achèvement de la Banque mondiale fait ressortir que ce rapport ne procède
pas d'une évaluation approfondie, et qu'il reprend des appréciations parfois subjectives, qui ne prennent pas
en compte, d'une part la complexité du suivi et la coordination, et d'autre part les acquis considérables qui
ne peuvent être appréciés à leur juste valeur si l'on ne rappelle pas l'ensemble du processus d'élaboration et
de mise en oeuvre du projet.
1- Suivi statistique
         Le bilan établi par la Banque mondiale ne s'inscrit, en aucun cas, dans la logique des conclusions
de tous les Rapports des Missions relatives au Programme de priorités sociales, depuis sa mise en oeuvre à
janvier 2004, date de la réalisation de la Mission du 5 au 16 janvier.
         Les questions relatives aux «problèmes d'accès aux données, à leur précision et aux acquis
institutionnels» n'ont curieusement émergé qu'après la rédaction de la première version du Rapport de fin
d'exécution de la Mission du 5 -6 janvier 2004. Ni l'évaluation à mi chemin, ni les précédents Rapports, y
compris la première version du Rapport de fin d'exécution, n'ont soulevé ou au moins fait allusion à une
quelconque modestie des résultats.
         Au contraire, la Direction de la Statistique a honoré des engagements additionnels qui n'ont pas été
programmés par la Composante Suivi Statistique du BAJ1, dont le cas Guichet statistique.
         Le rapport appelle également les commentaires supplémentaires suivants:
1-1- Sur le plan de l'accessibilité aux données socio-économiques, il importe de rappeler que:
- Les indicateurs socio-économiques récents sont élaborés à partir de l'enquête annuelle sur l'emploi et sur le
niveau de vie des ménages 1998/99;
- Les résultats de l'enquête sur l'emploi d'un trimestre donné sont diffusés à la fin du trimestre suivant, en
dur et sur le site du Haut Commissariat au Plan, gratuitement ;
- Les fichiers bruts de l'enquête sur le niveau de vie 1998/99 ont connu une large diffusion, et par la
Direction de la Statistique et par la Banque Mondiale; dans ce cas, il ne faut pas confondre l'accessibilité
aux données avec les activités statistiques fastidieuses présumées être faites par des consultants et
transférées pour exécution à la Direction de la Statistique ou à l'Observatoire des conditions de vie; ceci ne
peut qu'entraver la réalisation du programme de travail de ces deux institutions;
 - Plus d'une dizaine de rapports et d'études thématiques basés sur l'enquête sur le niveau de vie ont été
vulgarisés par des séminaires et diffusés à une large échelle;
- Suite à la recommandation de la Mission de mi-parcours, un Guichet statistique dédié aux utilisateurs de
l'information statistique a été officiellement créé en 2002 et est opérationnel; son apport à l'encadrement,
l'orientation et à l'accès du public aux données statistiques est fondamental;
- L'Observatoire des conditions de vie est un utilisateur des données et des fichiers de la Direction de la
Statistique pour ses propres besoins et on ne peut, en aucun cas, lui demander de les transmettre à d'autres
utilisateurs; l'apurement des données se poursuit sur une longue période et seule la Division productrice de
ces données peut se prononcer sur les variables et les indicateurs à communiquer aux demandeurs. Même
les études réalisées par l'Observatoire sont communiquées, avant leur impression, aux Divisions
responsables des fichiers d'enquêtes, pour avis.
1-2- Sur le plan de la fiabilité des données et des indicateurs socio-économiques, il faut noter que:
- Les approches de mesure, les concepts des indicateurs et les méthodes d'analyse sont publiés dans tous les
rapports des résultats des enquêtes et les études publiées; ils sont conformes aux normes internationales;
- Une série "Indicateurs sociaux" est publiée chaque année, donnant les méthodes d'estimation et l'évolution


                                                      - 44 -

sur une dizaine d'années de l'ensemble des indicateurs disponibles;
- Les utilisateurs disposant des fichiers d'enquêtes socio-économiques y compris la Banque Mondiale n'ont
jamais décelé une quelconque différence entre les résultats publiés et les résultats dégagés par leurs propres
moyens;
- La Direction de la Statistique et l'Observatoire des conditions de vie ne sont pas responsables des
indicateurs élaborés par d'autres institutions ou par les utilisateurs des fichiers de base ne disposant pas de
spécialistes de traitement d'enquêtes;
- Dans ces conditions, il est opportun d'indiquer dans le Rapport de fin d'exécution les données qui ne sont
pas fiables et la source de données alternatives qui montre ce manquement à la fiabilité.

 1-3- Sur le plan de l'impact de développement institutionnel, il est important de souligner que c'est
grâce à l'efficacité de sa gestion que l'Observatoire des conditions de vie:
- Est actif dans toutes les commissions nationales chargées des questions sociales stratégiques, cas du
Régime d'assistance médicale des économiquement défavorisés (RAMED), du Développement humain, du
Travail des enfants, des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le Développement, d'Alphabétisation,
- Développe des approches méthodologiques jamais mises en ouvre au Maroc, cas de la mesure de l'IDH
régional, de l'économie d'échelle, de la pauvreté humaine et subjective, ..;
- S'enquiert des techniques statistiques à la pointe de l'économie des niveaux de vie, cas des cartes
communales, provinciales et régionales de la pauvreté monétaire, en cours d'élaboration en collaboration
avec la Banque Mondiale;
- S'est doté de hautes compétences dans les domaines statistique, démographique, économique,
économétrique, science de l'information, etc.;
- Est institutionnalisé et son programme de travail parfaitement intégré dans la production statistique; tous
les fichiers de base des enquêtes socio-économiques réalisées par la Direction de la Statistique sont
systématiquement transférés à l'Observatoire;
- Est évalué à travers aussi bien les précédents Rapports que le Rapport de la Mission du 5 au 16 janvier
2004 (paragraphe 14, page 4) comme suit "L'Observatoire fonctionne depuis plusieurs années, d'une
manière très satisfaisante, avec des cadres de haute qualification. .". Ce même Rapport note (paragraphe
13) que "Les résultats acquis sous la composante sont très satisfaisants. ...".
        En somme, la non considération de l'ensemble de ces faits a généré une rupture inexpliquée entre les
conclusions du Rapport de fin d'exécution et les Rapports de toutes les Missions précédentes. Sans citer les
conclusions de tous les Rapports des Missions effectuées de 1996/97 à janvier 2004, un Rapport de fin
d'exécution doit être, au moins en partie, cohérent avec ces conclusions. Autrement, toutes les Missions
passées n'ont pas pu révéler la modestie des résultats à temps et, par conséquent, les insuffisances n'ont pas
été redressées.

2- Coordination et suivi des programmes sociaux
        Le rapport d'achèvement de la Banque mondiale, relatif à la composante Coordination et Suivi des
Programmes Sociaux, a eu tendance, en général, à ignorer des activités essentielles assurées par le
Secrétariat. Ledit rapport a surtout insisté, de manière générale, sur les difficultés de coordination et les
délais d'élaboration du système d'information géographique.
        Au niveau de la page 9, le rapport juge que les résultats au niveau central n'ont pas été
satisfaisants. Il les attribue à deux facteurs.
        Le premier concerne le retard enregistré dans l'établissement d'un Système d'Information et de
Gestion du Programme (SIGP) ainsi qu'un Système d'Information Géographique (SIG).
        Cependant, le rapport ne signale pas que les raisons de ce retard sont partagées avec les missions de
la Banque mondiale. En effet, les différentes étapes de la conception du système d'information
géographique ont été décidées, en concertation avec les experts de la mission de la Banque mondiale. A cet
égard, il faut rappeler que le SIGP a été fonctionnel et opérationnel, au début de l'année 1998 et au cours


                                                      - 45 -

du deuxième trimestre de l'année 1999 pour la deuxième composante du système, dont une présentation
(SIG) a été organisée au mois de juillet 1999 au profit des experts de la mission de la Banque mondiale qui
ont recommandé la fusion des deux composantes. Le retard enregistré, par la suite, dans la mise en place de
ce système est dû à la proposition formulée par les experts de la Banque mondiale de fusionner le SIGP
(élaboré par la Société IMEG) au SIG (élaboré par la société CADTECH).
            En effet, la nouvelle proposition a contraint les responsables du département du Plan à constituer
un comité ad hoc et de relancer le travail afin de permettre l'aboutissement de ce système. Et grâce à
l'assistance et à l'appui du dernier chef du projet de la Banque mondiale et à sa conviction quant à la portée
de tels systèmes sur le suivi de programmes similaires et la promotion de la planification locale, les efforts
déployés ont permis de faire aboutir la réalisation de ce système qui s'est avéré complexe, il a été rendu
opérationnel dans cinq provinces pilotes du BAJ1.
            Le deuxième facteur, relatif au retard enregistré dans l'élaboration des rapports annuels
d'avancement des travaux du BAJ1, appelle également des précisions. Il faut signaler, tout d'abord, que le
Secrétariat s'est acquitté de la préparation, en coordination avec les départements concernés, des rapports
relatifs aux années 1996/97, 1997/98, 1998/99, 1999/2000, 2001 et 2002. Les retards enregistrés dans
l'envoi de certains rapports n'étaient pas considérables, et se justifiaient par le souci du Secrétariat
d'élaborer un rapport en conformité avec les objectifs attendus et en concertation avec les membres de la
commission technique interministérielle et les points focaux provinciaux..
            Par ailleurs, il y a lieu de noter que les réunions n'étaient pas sporadiques. Elles répondaient aux
préoccupations des coordonnateurs sectoriels et des points focaux et s'intégraient dans le processus de suivi
et d'élaboration des rapports d'exécution annuelle du BAJ1.
         Quant aux résultats de l'étude d'évaluation à mi-parcours, ils ont été largement diffusés, aussi bien
au niveau central qu'à l'échelle des provinces concernées. Le Secrétariat a envoyé plusieurs copies de ces
rapports aux départements concernés. Quant à leur répartition au sein de ces structures, elle n'incombe pas
au Secrétariat.

         A la page 11, le rapport juge que l'impact du volet institutionnel est négligeable. A ce propos, le
rapport a ignoré les efforts considérables déployés, par le Secrétariat, depuis le début du projet en vue de
mettre en oeuvre la première phase de la stratégie de développement social. Il s'agissait, notamment, de
concevoir et de mettre en oeuvre une approche opérationnelle basée sur les préoccupations de ciblage et
d'intégration, et qui assurerait l'adhésion des départements concernés. Cette démarche a nécessité un travail
de collecte et d'analyse des données et d'indicateurs pour les différentes provinces, à partir de sources
statistiques communes. Ce travail a été également conforté par des approches sectorielles. Ce qui a conduit
à retenir les mêmes provinces d'intervention.
         Par ailleurs, le lancement du projet a eu à dépasser les problèmes liés au financement, qui allaient
décourager les ministères en raison de la non additivité des crédits du BAJ1 par rapport aux allocations
budgétaires normales. Dans ce cadre, le Secrétariat a contribué, amplement, à faciliter l'adhésion des
différents partenaires qui s'attendaient à bénéficier de ressources supplémentaires, pour un tel projet
spécifique.
          De même, les efforts du Secrétariat ont facilité la tenue des réunions de la Commission Technique
interministérielle, ce qui a permis d'organiser 13 réunions depuis le lancement du BAJ, sans compter les
séries de réunions organisées, au sein du département du Plan entre 1994 et 1996 pour la conception du
projet, et qui ont abouti à la réunion du 17 octobre 1996 pour le lancement officiel du BAJ1, sous la
présidence des Ministres et des gouverneurs des provinces concernés par BAJ1 et en présence de la mission
de la Banque mondiale.
         Il y a lieu de signaler, aussi, que les différentes étapes de préparation et de lancement du BAJ1 ont
été confrontées à l'absence du Plan pluriannuel à l'époque, d'où la difficulté de programmation des actions
du BAJ1. Cette absence a amené le Secrétariat à élaborer un programme triennal pour les trois projets
d'éducation, de santé et de Promotion Nationale, permettant de transcender les difficultés d'identification


                                                        - 46 -

des interventions d'appui de la PN au profit des deux autres secteurs. Cela répond d'ailleurs aux
appréhensions du rapport (page 5, dernier paragraphe) quant à la non consolidation des plans annuels des
projets éducation et santé, lors de l'élaboration du programme.
         De plus, sur le plan du développement institutionnel, en appui aux actions du BAJ1, le Secrétariat
a mis en oeuvre, en coordination avec le PNUD, le Programme de Développement Humain Durable et de
Lutte contre la Pauvreté, qui cible les quatre provinces les plus défavorisées du BAJ1, permettant la
mobilisation d'autres agences, à travers la capitalisation du ciblage réalisé lors de la conception du
programme BAJ1. Ceci a été également facilité, par les efforts entrepris, par le Secrétariat, et qui ont
permis de dépasser les incompréhensions attachées au concept de la pauvreté et sa vulgarisation.
         Dans le même cadre, et dans la perspective d'une pérennisation et d'une capitalisation de
l'approche BAJ1, le Secrétariat a élaboré en collaboration avec les départements concernés, un projet de «
stratégie de développement social intégré », qui cible une trentaine de provinces connaissant un déficit en
matière d'accès aux services sociaux de base (éducation de base, santé de base, désenclavement, adduction
d'eau potable, électrification et protection sociale, lutte contre l'analphabétisme et promotion de l'emploi
des jeunes chômeurs). Ce projet avait été étudié par la commission de suivi présidée par le Premier
Ministre.
         Au niveau de la page 15, le rapport a qualifié la coordination de fastidieuse. Mais il ne présent
aucun argument, sauf l'affirmation par la suite que les autorités locales ont une connaissance approfondie
des besoins. C'est là un autre jugement subjectif (qui est valable pour certaines actions, dont celles de la
PN, mais pas pour les autres activités). Ceci dénote l'existence de résistances et illustre le niveau
d'importance accordé à la coordination. A cet égard, il est à signaler que même les missions de la Banque
mondiale ne favorisaient pas une telle activité, en omettant de tenir              le Secrétariat informé des
aides-mémoires et de l'associer aux travaux des experts affectés aux projets éducation et santé de base. En
effet, lors des missions effectuées par les experts de la Banque mondiale dans le cadre du BAJ1, pour ces
projets, aucun contact avec le Secrétariat n'a été programmé pour coordonner et s'informer sur le
déroulement de la mission et participer aux différentes réunions et visites de terrain.
         Quant à l'efficience de la coordination du programme, au niveau provincial, elle l'était dans les
provinces où le point focal était le responsable régional du département du Plan et où les autorités locales
accordent de l'importance au projet. Cependant, la non prévision par le projet des dépenses récurrentes de
fonctionnement a entravé, en partie, le rôle de coordination et de suivi des points focaux à l'échelle locale.

         Au niveau de l'annexe 1
          Page 18, dans la partie relative à la composante C, il faut lire dans la deuxième colonne que le
suivi du PPS/BAJ au niveau central était satisfaisant au lieu de limité.
         Page 19, dans la partie relative à la composante C, il faut lire dans la deuxième colonne :
         Que les réunions, au niveau central, sont tenues régulièrement et leur fréquence a dépassé l'objectif
retenu.
         Que les rapports annuels produits répondaient aux préoccupations des membres de la commission
technique interministérielle.
         Que les membres du Secrétariat et les responsables des points focaux ont tous bénéficié de la
formation sur l'utilisation du SIGP, alors que le système intégré de suivi informatique est opérationnel dans
cinq provinces.

                                             Ajouter en annexe

   COMITE DE COORDINATION, DE SUIVI ET D'EVALUATION DES PROGRAMMES DE
                                            L'ACTION SOCIALE
         Ce Comité a été institué, sous l'autorité du Premier Ministre, le 28 septembre 1998.
         Il est chargé de :



                                                     - 47 -

        -Préparer les stratégies et les programmes de développement social y compris les objectifs à
atteindre et les moyens en oeuvre pour y parvenir ;
        -Donner les orientations nécessaires pour l'élaboration et l'exécution des plans d'action sectoriels ;
        - Assurer la coordination, le suivi de l'exécution de ces plans d'action et en évaluer les
performances.
        Présidé par le Premier Ministre, ce Comité est composé de :
        - Le Ministre d'Etat, Ministre de l'Intérieur ;
        - Le Ministre Chargé de l'Aménagement du Territoire, de l'Environnement, de l'Urbanisme et de
l'Habitat ;
        - Le Ministre de l'Economie et des Finances ;
        - Le Ministre de l'Agriculture, du Développement Rural et de la Pêche;
        - Le Ministre du Développement Social, de la Solidarité, de l'Emploi et de la Formation
Professionnelle, Porte Parole du Gouverneur;
        - Le Ministre de l'Equipement ;
        - Le Ministre de l'Energie et des Mines;
        - Le Ministre de l'Education Nationale;
        - Le Ministre de la Santé;
        - Le Ministre de la Jeunesse et des Sports;
        - Le Ministre Délégué auprès du Premier Ministre Chargé des Affaires Générales du
Gouvernement;
        - Le Ministre Délégué auprès du Premier Ministre Chargé de la Prévision Economique et du Plan.
        Ce comité a tenu sa première réunion, sous la Présidence de Mr. le Premier Ministre, le 28 octobre
1998. Trois réunions ont eu lieu en 1999. Elles ont été centrées sur l'action du gouvernement dans les
domaines sociaux et sur l'élaboration et l'adoption d'une stratégie de développement social intégré.

         REUNIONS DE LA COMMISSION TECHNIQUE INTERMINISTERIELLE DE
                                COORDINATION ET DE SUIVI DU BAJ1
 Date de la                         Objet de la réunion                                     Participants
   réunion
17/10/1996      - Lancement officiel du BAJ1                                  - Ministres concernés par BAJ1;
                                                                              - Gouverneurs, élus et présidents des
                                                                              conseils provinciaux ;
                                                                              - Experts de la Banque mondiale;
                                                                              - Représentants des agences des
                                                                              Nations Unies.
21/01/1997      - Etude de définition du système informatique et du schéma - Coordonnateurs nationaux
                directeur informatique pour le secrétariat ;
                - Organisation de l'atelier d'échange ; d'expériences et de
                formation en informatique.
15/04/1997      - Etat d'avancement des différentes composantes des trois     - Représentants des départements
                projets constituant BAJ ;                                     ministériels ;
                - Dispositions requises pour l'accélération de l'exécution du - Responsables des points focaux.
                BAJ1.
31/10/1997      - Etat d'avancement du BAJ1;                                  - Représentants des départements
                - Préparation des rapports d'exécution du BAJ1.               ministériels ;
                                                                              - Responsables des points focaux.
26/02/1998      - Les procédures de passation de marchés et de                - Représentants des départements
                décaissements sur les prêts BAJ1 ;                            ministériels (Coordonnateurs
                - Etat d'avancement des travaux d'exécution du BAJ1.          nationaux)



                                                     - 48 -

28/07/1998    - Le contexte d'exécution des activités du BAJ1 dans         - Représentants des départements
              chaque province;                                             ministériels (Coordonnateurs
              - La présentation d'un canevas pour le suivi du BAJ1 ;       nationaux);
              - La présentation du projet du système informatique de       - Responsables des points focaux.
              suivi et d'évaluation des activités du BAJ1 par la société
              IMEG engagée par l'établissement de ce système.
22/01/1999    - Examen du projet de rapport d'exécution annuelle           - Coordonnateurs sectoriels ;
              1997-98 ;                                                    - Responsables des points focaux.
              - Situation des décaissements.
28/06/1999    - Présentation des résultats préliminaires de l'étude        - Coordonnateurs nationaux ;
              d'évaluation à mi-parcours des réalisations du BAJ1.         - Responsables des points focaux.
12/01/2001    - Examen des questions relatives à l'audit des comptes de    - Coordonnateurs sectoriels ;
              l'exercice 1998-1999 concernant le Projet de la Promotion - Inspecteurs généraux de Finances
              Nationale, de Coordination et de Suivi des Programmes        (IGF).
              Sociaux (Prêt BIRD 4026-MOR).
15/02/2001    - Examen des projets de rapports d'exécution annuelle de     - Coordonnateurs nationaux ;
              l'exercice de 1998-1999 et de 1999-2000.                     - Responsables des points focaux.

         REUNIONS DE LA COMMISSION TECHNIQUE INTERMINISTERIELLE DE
                               COORDINATION ET DE SUIVI DU BAJ1

                                                    (Suite)
14/05/2001    - Examen du projet de rapport d'exécution annuelle du        - Coordonnateurs nationaux.
              BAJ de l'exercice 1999-2000 ;
              - Programme d'action relatif à la période de 2001-2003 ;
              - Identification des activités d'appui à l'éducation et à la
              santé de base.
22/05/2001    - Examen du projet de rapport d'exécution annuelle du        - Coordonnateurs nationaux ;
              BAJ1;                                                        - Responsables des points focaux.
              - Conditions d'utilisation du Système de Suivi
              Informatique du BAJ1.
19/02/2002    - Examen de deux rapports d'exécution annuelle du BAJ1 - Coordonnateurs nationaux ;
              au cours deux périodes juillet 1999- décembre 2000 et de     - Responsables des points focaux.
              l'année 2001;
              - Programme d'action des années 2002 et 2003 ;
              - Evaluation des conditions d'utilisation du Système de
              Suivi Informatique du BAJ1.
28/05/2002    - Examen et adoption des deux rapports d'exécution du        - Coordonnateurs nationaux ;
              Juillet 1999-décembre 2000 et de l'année 2001.               - Responsables des points focaux.

            LISTE DES TRAVAUX SUPERVISES PAR LE SECRETARIAT DU COMITE DE
   COORDINATION, DE SUIVI ET D'EVALUATION DES PROGRAMMES DE L'ACTION
                                                  SOCIAL

                     - Elaboration de programme triennal du BAJ1 pour la période 1998-2001;
        - Etude de suivi et d'évaluation à mi-parcours des réalisations du BAJ1 en 1999 (14 rapports
provinciaux, trois rapports sectoriels et un rapport de synthèse);
        - Etude d'évaluation de l'impact des réalisations du BAJ1 en 2003 (14 rapports provinciaux et un
rapport de synthèse);
- Elaboration du document de la Stratégie de Développement Social Intégré en 1999, ciblant une trentaine



                                                     - 49 -

de provinces qui connaissent un déficit en matière d'accès aux services sociaux de base (éducation de base,
santé de base et protection sociale), la lutte contre l'analphabétisme et la promotion de l'emploi des jeunes
chômeurs;
- Elaboration du Rapport National sur la situation des services sociaux essentiels dans le cadre de l'étude
du Suivi de l'initiative 20 / 20. en l'an 2000 ;
- L'élaboration des rapports d'exécution annuelle du BAJ1 pour les exercices budgétaires 1996/978,
1997/98, 1998/99, 1999/2000, 2001 et 2002
- L'organisation d'ateliers de formation sur le SIGP et le SIG.




                                                      - 50 -

Additional Annex 9. List of Studies carried out by the Department of
Statistics/Observatory

The data exploitation of the National Living Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) 1998/99, has
resulted in numerous literature on the economy of living standards in Morocco. The reports and studies,
listed hereunder, which were prepared on the basis of this survey cover the many aspects of social and
economic dimensions of living conditions.

 1. Poverty update in Morocco, Volumes 1 & 2, World Bank, 2001.
 2. National report on human development 2001-2002: Governance and Local Development, Planning
     Department, ongoing.
 3. Study on the funding of the restructuring of the medical coverage, Ministry of Economy, Finances and
     Privatization, World Bank, 2002.
 4. Understanding the work of children in Morocco, World Bank, UNICEF, ILO, IPEC, 2003.
 5. Actuarial study related to the project on the medical assistance regimen on economical weak people,
     Ministry of Health, 2002.
 6. Research agendas of the MIMAP team (Micro impacts of macro economic adjustment policies),
     National Institution of Statistics and Applied Economy. (INSEA).
 7. Woman, poverty and demographic and sanitary behavior, League of Arab Countries, 2002.
 8. Report of the National Population Commission, 2001 (Research and Demographic Studies' Center).

Since its creation, the Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions carried out the following studies:

 1. Socio-economic situation of the provinces targeted by BAJ1, 1997.
 2. Demand of health services in the provinces targeted by BAJ1: Level and determinants 1998.
 3. Social priorities: plurality and spatial differentiation, 1998.
 4. BAJ 1 follow-up indicators, 1998.
 5. BAJ 1 follow-up indicators, 1999.
 6. Socio-economic conditions of women in Morocco, 1999.
 7. Time utilization by women in Morocco, 1999.
 8. Education, training and employment opportunities, 2000.
 9. Follow-up indicators of social programs, 2000.
10. Analysis of the poverty profile and the dynamics of poverty: a basis of poverty alleviation, 2001.
11. The less than 18 year's old in Morocco, 2001.
12. Follow-up indicators of social programs, 2001.
13. Poor part of the population: profile, consumption pattern and sources of income, 2002.
14. Breakdown of income levels in Morocco, 2002.
15. Education, training and employment opportunities, 2000.
16. Access to health services and living standard, 2002.
17. Elasticities ­ revenue of household demands, 2002.
18. Follow-up indicators of social programs, 2002.
19. Social distribution of consumption expenses, 2003.




                                                      - 51 -

Additional Annex 10. Promotion Nationale - Budgetary allocations by region, 2001 and
2003




                                        - 52 -

Due to incompability of software the table cannot be attached. However, the table will be attached when
the ICR will be sent to printshop.




                                                  - 53 -

- 54 -

