Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15075-MOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
(BARANAMAJ AL AOULAOUIYAT AL IJTIMAIYA)
COORDINATION AND MONITORING OF SOCIAL PROGRAMS,
AND LABOR PROMOTION PROJECT
May 9, 1996
Human Resources Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Dirham (DH)
US$1.00 = DH8.3 (as of April 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31 (until 1995)
July I to June 30 (as of 1996)
ABBREVIATIONS
BAJ           Barnamaj al-Aoulaouaiyat al-Ijtimaiya (Social Priorities Program)
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CSSS          Comite de Suivi de la Strategie Sociale (Social Strategy Steering Committee)
COCOES        Comite de Coordination des Etudes Statistiques (Committee for the Coordination of
Statistical Studies)
DS            Direction de la Statistique (Department of Statistics)
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
LSMS          Living Standards Measurement Survey
MEN           Ministere de l'Education Nationale (Ministry of National Education)
MEAS          Ministere de l'Emploi et des Affaires Sociales (Ministry of Employment and Social
Affairs)
MSP           Ministere de la Sante Publique (Ministry of Public Health)
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
PMIS          Program Management Information System
PN            Promotion Nationale (National Agency for Labor Promotion)
PPS           Programme Priorites Sociales (Social Priorities Program)
SMAG          Salaire Minimum Agricole Garanti (Minimum Guaranteed Wage in Agriculture)
SDS           Strategie de Developpement Social
SPP           Social Priorities Program
ZIP           Zone d 'intervention prioritaire (Priority intervention area)



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
COORDINATION AND MONITORING OF SOCIAL PROGRAMS,
AND LABOR PROMOTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Project and Loan Summnary
Borrower:                  Kingdom of Morocco
Implementing               The Ministry of Interior (Promotion Nationale)
Agencies:                  The Ministry of Population
Poverty:                   Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                    US$28.0 million equivalent
Terms:                     Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the IBRD
standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:            0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing
Financing Plan:
(US$ million)
Foreign              Local                Total
IBRD                   12.9                15.1                 28.0
Government              --                 21.5                 21.5
Total                  12.9                36.6                 49.5
Net Present Value:         N\A (cost-effectiveness calculations)
Environmental Rating:      C
Staff Appraisal
Report:                    No. 15075
Map No.:                   IBRD 27638
Project ID No.:            42414



I



BASIC DATA
Indicator                                                      Measure      Date
National Wealth
GNP per capita (US$)                                           1040     1993
Population
Total population (million)                                   26,073     1994
Rural population (% of total)                                  48.6     1994
Population growth rate (%)                                      2.1  1982-94
Poverty
Head-count Index
poor (%)                                                    13.1  1990-91
very poor (%)                                               7.0  1990-91
Poverty line (annual DH per person)
very poor (rural)                                         2,040   1990-91
poor (urban)                                              2,730   1990-91
Education
Adult literacy (% of population, age 15+)
Total                                                        45      1991
Female                                                       32      1991
Net school enrollment (%)
Primary                                                      58  1991-92
Secondary                                                    28      1992
Health
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                 62     1992
Infant Mortality Rate (per thousand)                             62     1995
General malnutrition (%)                                         15     1992
People per physician (number)                                 2,760     1995
Married women using contraceptives (%)                           42     1995
Employment
Minimum wage for nonagricultural sectors (DH per day)            50     1995
Minimum wage for agricultural sector (DH per day)                38     1995






TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.         SOCIAL  SECTOR  BACKGROUND  AND  ISSUES ...........................................I
A.  Economic Context ...........................................                                                        1
B. Poverty ..........................................I
C.  Social Assistance and Employment Promotion ........................................... 2
D.  Statistical Monitoring ...........................................4
E.  Social Policy Coordination ...........................................5
II.        GOVERNMENT STRATEGY AND BANK RESPONSE ......................................6
A. Government Strategy ...........................................6
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement ...........................................7
C.  Bank Experience and Lessons Learned ...........................................8
III.   THE PROJECT .........................................8
A.  The Social Priorities Program  ..........................................8
B.  Project Objectives ...........................................9
C.  Project Description ...........................................9
IV.        COSTS, FINANCING  AND  MANAGEMENT  .......................................... 12
A.  Summary of Project Costs .......................................... 12
B. Financing ..........................................                                                               13
C. Economic Analysis ..........................................                                                       14
D.  Management and Implementation .............                               ............................. 16
V.         PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........................................                                                 23
A. Benefits .......................................... 23
B. Risks ..........................................                                                                   23
C.  Stakeholders' Participation ..........................................                                            24
D. Poverty Category ..........................................                                                        24
E.  Environmental Assessment ..........................................                                               25
VI.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..........................................  25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited Morocco in June 1995, led by Benoit Millot (MNIHR),
and comprising Messrs. Bahjat Achikbache (EMTHR) and Jean Christophe Laederach (MNIHR). Mrs. Dung-Kim Pham
(MNlHR) assisted in preparing the project costs and financing tables. Ms. Elizabeth Sherman edited project documents. Peer
reviewers are Mr. Alexandre Marc (EC4MS) and Mrs. Dominique Van de Walle (PRDPE). Mr. Jean Francois Dupuy is the
lawyer for Morocco, Mrs. Roslyn Hees is MNIHR Division Chief and Mr. Daniel Ritchie is MNI Department Director.



ANNEXES
1. Basic Sector Information
2. SPP/BAJ: Organizational Structure
3. Provinces Selected for the Program
4. Selected Project Data
5. Summary Cost Tables
6. Economic Analysis Data
7. Procurement and Disbursement Data
8. Summary of Technical Assistance and Training
9. Project Implementation Monitoring: Key Indicators
10. Selected Information in the Project File
MAP Map No. IBRD 27638



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM
COORDINATION AND MONITORING OF SOCIAL PROGRAMS,
AND LABOR PROMOTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. SOCIAL SECTOR BACKGROUND AND ISSUES
A. Economic Context
1.01   Over the past decade, Morocco has instituted reforms designed to achieve macroeconomic
stability and to liberalise the economy. Wide-reaching and comprehensive, the reforms have
gradually moved Morocco away from a predominantly state-administered economy towards one that
is more market-driven and outward-oriented. Yet, progress achieved on the macroeconomic front
remains fragile, as demonstrated by the continued indebtedness, and the deterioration in the fiscal
and external accounts which were exarcerbated by the 1995 drought.
1.02   Morocco's growth rate, which averaged about 4% annually during the last decade, fell well
below expectations and was too low to absorb the country's growing labor force.  Private
investment and domestic saving rates remain modest; labor productivity is not increasing; and
international competitiveness has recently eroded. The situation has been further exacerbated by the
recent drought, but prospects for 1996 are brighter.  Despite significant recent progress,
performance has also been disappointing in the social sectors. Morocco's indicators in health,
education, literacy, and access to safe water continue to lag behind those of economically
comparable countries.  A fifth of the population still lives in poverty or near-poverty, urban
unemployment rates have reached 20%, and rural women are still economically and socially
marginalized.
1.03   Morocco's low social performance and its relative economic success are intimately related.
For even with constructive political and economic reforms in place, the country cannot reach and
sustain higher economic growth rates without a substantial accumulation of human capital. To
achieve such a reserve, it must boost its investment in the provision of basic social services.
Conversely, without sustained economic growth, it will be extremely difficult to substantially
improve employment opportunities and living conditions of the Moroccan population, which already
stands at 26 million and is growing apace.
B. Poverty
1.04   Data gathered from  the 1985 Household Consumption Survey and the 1991 Living
Standards Measurement Survey (LSMS) showed that the share of Morocco's population living
below the poverty line fell from 21 to 13% in those six years, while the GNP per capita rose by
about 30% (and presently hovers at around US$1, 100). This performance was achieved during the
period of structural adjustment. Adding the number of those whose expenditure levels are just
above the poverty line to the number of those who live below it, more than 3.3 million Moroccans
are still poor enough to be isolated from the mainstream economy.



- 2 -
1.05   Urban, rural, and regional variations are also striking, and the gap dividing them  is
deepening. In 1991, 72% of all poor lived in rural areas as compared to 70% six years earlier.
Likewise, while a quarter of the population lived in poverty in the Center-North, East, and Center-
South regions, the poverty rate was below 5 % in coastal areas. In rural areas, the poor are typically
either seasonally underemployed wage-earners or small-scale farmers. In urban areas they are
mostly self-employed people who work in the informal sector, underpaid (often temporary) wage-
earners, or are unemployed. If access to basic social services is taken into account, still more
differences between urban and rural areas come to light.
1.06   Along with low pay, unemployment and underemployment are major determinants of
poverty. In the early 1990s, the aggregate unemployment rate in urban areas was estimated at 16 to
20%, but among the urban poor the unemployment rate reached 30%. Unemployment rates are
much lower in rural areas, but these areas suffer substantial, chronic underemployment.  Not
surprisingly unemployment is most widespread among those with little or no education, but neither
are those with a secondary education immune. Unemployment rates are higher for women overall.
1.07   The growing importance of the informal sector--although a sign of the economy's
dynamism and ability to absorb excess labor supply and react to demand--reflects an increase in the
reservoir of persons prone to fall below the poverty threshold. The poverty assessment report
(World Bank 1994) found a strong link between poverty in economic terms and such social ills as
low literacy, education, health, and nutrition levels and high fertility rates. That report, and other
studies, also found a strong correlation between income levels and degree of access to basic social
services. In light of these findings, the report strongly recommends the rehabilitation of basic social
services as a necessary prerequisite for the durable alleviation of poverty. Yet, until recently the
various social policies and programs were not strongly coordinated, and the link between this
disparate set of sectoral actions and the macroeconomic framework was loose.  There was,
moreover, no visible political will to address the problem of lagging social sector performance.
C. Social Assistance and Employment Promotion
1.08   In Morocco, social security and welfare mechanisms are generally operated by public
entities funded off-budget. Morocco presently devotes about 1.7% of its budget and 0.4% of its
GDP to social security and welfare services--far less than is allocated in economically comparable
countries. Social security, moreover, mainly protects those in the mainstream economy, that is,
wage-earners and their dependents. Benefits include family allowances; payments for maternity,
sickness, and disability; and pensions. In the private modern sector, nonwage costs linked with the
payment of social security charges represent 19% of take-home pay. Contributions from about 2
million workers are managed by four main funds, of which the CNSS (Caisse Nationale de Securite
Sociale) caters to 0.8 million workers in the private sector and the CMR (Caisse Marocaine de
Retraite) serves 700,000 government employees. The system does not, however, reach those who
are self-employed in the informal sector and in rural areas, temporary workers in the private modern
sector, and the unemployed in urban areas.
1.09   The present system, therefore, fails to cover those who need it most--those who do not have
a permanent or sufficient source of income, who do not have a secure job or who lose it, who are
vulnerable to such external events as drought and price increase, and who suffer such individual
economic shocks as sickness, death of the household head, divorce/repudiation or increased
numbers of dependents. In such cases, Moroccans generally seek help from traditional support
networks. But with migrations and urbanization on the rise, these are weakening. The social



- 3 -
assistance mechanisms provided by state institutions are generally confined to food price subsidies,
mutual aid, and public works employment programs. A nontargeted price subsidy program is
presently in place for sugar, edible oil, and wheat flour, but its overall impact seems regressive,
with better-off households and producers drawing more benefits from it than needy consumers. The
subsidies also perpetuate market distortion, and there is obviously a case for their further down-
scaling. In addition to these food subsidies, Morocco also has in place a national, targeted, school
feeding program.
1.10   Mutual aid is administered by the Entraide Nationale, a public agency operating under the
auspices of the Ministere de l'Emploi et des Affaires Sociales (Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs,
MEAS). Entraide Nationale's mandate is to supply assistance in any form to needy and vulnerable
populations and to promote family well-being.   A  large and complex organization, it has
6,000 employees, 50 regional offices, and runs a network of 980 social centers (centres sociaux
educatifs and centres d'education et de travail), which offer a variety of activities to about 500,000
beneficiaries. Entraide Nationale oversees the efforts of 250 private social organizations throughout
the country.  Yet while the agency's constituency is clearly on the low  end of the income
distribution curve and its services are mostly targeted to women, only 40% of its centers are located
in rural areas. It does not have, moreover, an articulated strategy for coordinating its various
activities and establishing priorities among them. As a result, there is no systematic targeting and
no mechanism to assess regularly the impact and cost-efficiency of the various activities funded and
supervised by the agency. Although Entraide Nationale was not yet ready for a major intervention
and in-depth reorganization under the proposed project, there is no doubt that future efforts to
strengthen the welfare system in Morocco will have to count on the presence of the agency.
1.11   Labor-intensive public works programs are carried out by the Promotion Nationale (PN), a
thirty-four-year-old autonomous agency run as a department of the Ministry of Interior. The
Promotion Nationale's mandate is to fight rural underemployment and to improve rural
infrastructure. To achieve this two-fold goal, agency-sponsored public works must devote at least
60% of their total budget to labor. Technical ministries are associated with PN projects to guarantee
their quality. Promotion Nationale is active in four different fields: 1. Traditional activities, such as
agricultural projects (reforestation, small irrigation canals), infrastructure (feeder roads), and
equipment (sewerage, water, various constructions), which absorbed, on average, 28% of the
agency's job-days from 1987 to 1993; 2. Small lakes and dams (16%); 3. Local commnunity
services (35%), including clerical work for local municipalities (chantiers collectivites, recently
renamed chantiers d'opportunite occasionnelle), which are the only Promotion Nationale activities
sponsored in urban areas; 4. Special program for the Saharan regions (20%), which grew until
1993-94 but has now plateaued (Annex 1). Only the first two types of activities are unambiguously
poverty oriented.
1.12   The Promotion Nationale, which usually uses force account procedures, creates about
13 million job-days each year overall, and the positive impact of the traditional activities it sponsors
on both employment and the environment is impressive.  In 1993, for instance, roughly
1,900 project sites were opened, 6 million job-days were created for traditional activities, and
60,000 kilometers of irrigation canals (seguias) and 3,000 kilometers of feeder-roads were built.
On average, each Promotion Nationale site creates 3,300 job-days at an average cost of US$24,000
per site. Unskilled workers--the vast majority of those recruited by the Promotion Nationale--are
paid the agricultural minimum wage, or SMAG (currently DH37.6, about US$4 a day), sometimes
with a food component. Skilled workers (foremen) are paid 22% above the SMAG. The Promotion
Nationale typically recruits rural (usually illiterate) workers during the inactive agricultural period,
thereby helping to fill the underemployment gap created by seasonal work stoppages in rural areas.



- 4 -
1.13   The Promotion Nationale has an appropriate administrative structure. It has representatives
in each region and is well-administered by a relatively light--although insufficiently trained--staff of
1,180, fifty of whom are high-level administrative or technical professionals, 70 are technicians,
and 160 are foremen (conducteurs de chantier). Affiliation with the Ministry of Interior, and the
presence of about 50 professional military personnel, have further helped earn the Promotion
Nationale the reputation of an efficient agency.  Funding for most activities comes from  the
Promotion Nationale budget, with the line ministries' contribution limited to technical approval, and
with local municipalities supervising the work. Small dams and lakes projects are financed out of
VAT revenues allocated to municipalities--a procedure that is much more cumbersome than direct
budgetary allocation, in that the financing of projects cannot be guaranteed at the outset because of
the municipalities' weak financial capacity. But a well-established selection cycle based on a clear
set of criteria is in place. Other features of Promotion Nationale activities include the formulation
of projects at the local level, screening at the provincial level, and the making of final decisions at
the central level. There is as yet no mechanism, however, for assessing the impact of Promotion
Nationale activities, and agency procedures generally are not transparent.
1.14   The Promotion Nationale's efficacy as a weapon against poverty, however, is threatened by
recent decreases in funding and by the shift away from traditional activities in favor of such
activities as the urban community works not specifically aimed at reducing poverty. Although
community projects may have the short-term benefit of keeping young people off the streets in
urban centers, they generally do not benefit those who need supplementary income to support
families. Nor do they contribute to the enhancement of the rural environment, which is necessary if
Morocco is to stem migration to the cities. Finally--without boosting their long-term effectiveness
with such additional activities as literacy programs--individual Promotion Nationale sites can have
only a short-term impact on the potential of individual participants and therefore do not produce
durable multiplying effects.
D. Statistical Monitoring
1.15   In 1942 Morocco established a public agency responsible for collecting, analyzing, and
disseminating economic and social statistical information. In 1975 this Central Statistical Service
was upgraded to become the Department of Statistics (Direction de la Statistique, DS). In 1961 a
training school for statistical engineers was created to meet the Government's need for skilled
statisticians. The country's statistical data collection system is decentralized so that, in principle,
data can be gathered and disseminated by any line ministry, but the Department of Statistics remains
the core institution of the system.
1.16   In 1968 a Committee for the Coordination of Statistical Studies (Comite de Coordination
des Etudes Statistiques, COCOES) was established to oversee the efforts of different providers of
data and to promote relevant socioeconomic studies. The Committee includes representatives from
all Ministries and public agencies. It is composed of four subcommittees, which deal with economic
statistics, financial statistics, data coordination, and national accounts. Unfortunately, however, the
COCOES has not met since 1987, and the Direction de la Statistique has initiated a review of its
legal basis with a view to replacing it by a National Council for Statistical Information more suited
to the country' s current information needs.
1.17   The Department of Statistics, formerly in the Ministry for Economic Incentives, serves as
the secretariat of the COCOES and is now part of the Ministry of Population. It is responsible for
producing statistical information (including socioeconomic and demographic data, financial and



- 5 -
economic surveys and studies, and national accounts), providing services (such as offering technical
assistance to other public institutions, conducting surveys and studies for other clients, disseminating
statistical information), and coordinating the national statistical information system (including
assessing statistical needs; setting up national and regional committees for the preparation of
statistical information development plans; monitoring statistical information programs; establishing
statistical information standards, methodologies, and norms; and organizing statistical information
seminars and conferences for both the public and private sectors).
1.18   In its effort to build an adequate database regarding living conditions in Morocco, the
Direction de la Statistique conducted household consumption and expenditure surveys in 1970-71
and 1984-85, and a Living Standards Measurement Survey in 1991. Based on these data, a set of
social indicators were published in 1993. Such line ministries as finance, health, and education are
also generating current statistics for their respective sectors. But while a wealth of data is currently
being produced, users in general--and decision-makers in particular--still suffer from the lack of
quick and easy access to the high-quality, timely, relevant data and sound anticipatory analysis
needed to assess the impact of development policies and programs on living conditions.
1.19   In addition, as it now stands, decisions regarding which data is to be collected reflect the
concerns of the institution responsible for data collection rather than user needs. Given this supply-
driven approach, the type and format of the data produced are more suited to socioeconomic
accounting than to policy decision-making or the monitoring of results in the field. Therefore, in
spite of the major efforts made by the Moroccan authorities, to track and understand changes taking
place in society, a sound statistical basis for policy, analysis, and decision-making in the social areas
is still largely lacking. In sum, Morocco's statistical information system has considerable capacity
to design and implement complex household and economic surveys, which generate valuable and
usable results that are issued in quality publications. But publication of results is often delayed,
users find access to information difficult, and further analysis is rarely carried out in a timely
fashion.
E. Social Policy Coordination
1.20   For a long time in Morocco, spending to promote human capital was not considered an
investment that would ultimately lead to greater and more sustainable economic growth, and instead,
economic growth was perceived as the only engine of social progress. Therefore, social concerns
were not a top Government priority, and--despite indisputable sectoral improvement during the
1980s and 1990s--there was no comprehensive, long-term plan for the social welfare of the country.
This was reflected by the absence of an operational mechanism to coordinate the action of the
various ministries responsible for implementing activities in the social sectors. In particular, during
the period spanning between the disparition of the Ministry of Planning (1992) and the creation of
the new Ministry of Population (para. 2.02), there was no institutional center to synthetize the needs
of a genuine social development and to impulse a coherent, long-term social policy. The Conseil
Economique et Social, instituted to be a forum of discussion, has not been activated yet.



-6 -
II. GOVERNNT STRATEGY AND BANK RESPONSE
A. Government Strategy
2.01   Following an era of thorough macroeconomic adjustment and worrisome decline in social
conditions throughout the Kingdom, the Government has started to focus on social issues in a more
concerted manner. In 1993 it issued the Social Development Strategy (Strategie de Developpement
Social pour la Decennie 1990, SDS), which sets forth clear directives aimed at reversing past trends
and establishing the framework for a sound social policy. Based on the 1991 Living Standards
Measurement Survey, the Government strategy made extending basic social services to the poor and
increasing their participation in economically productive activities its highest social goals. Such
extended coverage would include access to safe water, sewage facilities, health care, family planning
services, nutrition, primary education, literacy programs, and subsidized public housing.  But
recognizing prevailing budgetary constraints, the strategy stresses the inter- and intra-reallocation of
resources and introduction of cost-recovery mechanisms. It also advocates action to promote
employment and bolster social protection.  Finally, the SDS emphasizes that a strong and
appropriate administrative vehicle and reliable statistical monitoring system are required for the
implementation of its recommendations.
2.02   The Government gave the first version of the Strategie de Developpement Social pour la
Decennie 1990 to the Bank in the context of the second adjustment program. Following the
appraisal of the Social Priorities Program, the strategy was updated, formally reendorsed by the new
Government, and officially conveyed to the Bank [para. 6.01a]. Its internalization throughout the
relevant agencies is now underway. Specific sectoral action plans are being developed for the
education and health sectors as part of the preparation of the Social Priorities Program.  The
creation of the Ministry of Population is another signal that the Government is taking social
concerns seriously and is adapting its institutions accordingly.   This new  ministry has
responsibilities similar to those of a ministry of planning and is supposed to coordinate actions
throughout the social sectors within a unifying framework and based on a medium-term view.
Finally, the King's address to the Parliament of Morocco in October 1995 shows that concerns for
the social situation now emanate from the highest levels of the power hierarchy.
2.03   Labor-intensive works. The recent increase in Promotion Nationale-sponsored small-scale
rural infrastructure and equipment projects signals an intensification of the agency's effort to
alleviate the impact on employment of such external shocks as drought and have a positive effect on
the environment, which is highly degraded in many rural areas. Both of these benefits, moreover,
should help check migration to the cities. The agency's plans for the next two years reflect the
Government's will to reduce service activities in urban communities (chantiers d'opportunite
occasionnelle) and to redirect resources back to those traditional activities that have a direct impact
on rural basic infrastructure.
2.04   Monitoring. The SDS calls for setting up monitoring mechanisms to ensure consistency
between actual activities and fundamental SDS aims, to determine the social impact of programs and
activities undertaken for the benefit of the underprivileged, and--if need be--to recommend that
resources and activities be redirected to improve their efficacy. With its censuses and various
household, employment, and industry surveys, the Government has shown that it takes seriously the
task of building a reliable body of data. The collaboration of the Direction de la Statistique in
conducting the Living Standards Measurement Survey, moreover, strengthened its data-collection



- 7 -;
expertise. The affiliation of the Direction de la Statistique with the recently created Ministry of
Population--whose mandate is to keep its finger on the pulse of the people's needs and coordinate a
coherent response to those needs--will further help bring the issue of monitoring to center stage.
2.05   Policy coordination. While the adoption of the Strategie de Developpement Social pour la
Decennie 1990 is clearly a critical first step towards the coordination of social policies and the
linkage of the latter with the macroeconomic framework, its implementation will need to be
monitored by a high-level, committed entity. The Social Strategy Steering Committee (Comite de
Suivi de la Strategie Sociale, CSSS)-- was created by the Prime Minister in 1994 for this purpose.
However, it is only recently that the CSSS has started meeting, and it still has to prove itself as an
effective actor in the formulation of the country's social policy. The revitalization of the Conseil
Economique et Social, if concretized, would also contribute to the opening of a real dialogue
between the representatives of various constituencies, and to bring closer social and economic
issues.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.06   The severe state of degradation of Morocco's social sectors underscores the urgent need for
intensive, durable action. Bank support for such action is called for both by the present climate of
support in the Government and by the Bank's own Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), currently
under preparation, which puts investing in people as its first priority. Bank support for the social
sectors would also accord with its parallel efforts to strengthen macroeconomic performance and
encourage growth through private investment. Other donors have viewed the goals of the Strategie
de Dlveloppement Social pour la Decennie 1990 (based on the Living Standards Measurement
Survey and confirmed by the World Bank poverty assessment) as a rallying point, and support for
SDS policies is fully in line with the Bank's strategy of poverty alleviation and Morocco's overall
plan to develop its human resources. Since the Bank has already financed several projects in
Morocco's social sectors--especially in health and education--the proposed program would be an
extension of earlier Bank involvement. The Country Economic Memorandum (World Bank 1995a)
provides a solid body of evidence that programs whose aim is to improve Morocco's human capital
base and to increase labor efficiency and productivity warrant reinforcement of present Bank
support. Finally, a recent study of the region's present situation and long-term prospects (World
Bank 1995b) shows that Morocco, along with its neighbors, is experiencing high unemployment and
now feels an especially urgent need for bold programs aiming for both economic growth and
poverty alleviation. The Bank's role in promoting the Government's social strategy, and marshaling
international and bilateral support for social programs will be critical if Morocco is to succeed in the
fight it is waging against poverty, both in terms of equity and of economic growth.
2.07   Support for the provision and organization of basic social services and of more effective
social safety net instruments would constitute the Bank's first contribution to the SDS.  Bank
assistance to strengthen the selected activities of the Promotion Nationale in rural areas would have
a direct impact on those who need help most--the transient poor. A more aggressive use of the
Promotion Nationale in rural areas is needed, since it is one of the few instruments available to help
compensate workers rapidly for the seasonal loss of income and underemployment characteristic of
these areas. An expansion of PN projects would also help to compound the benefits expected from
social service interventions provided under other parts of the program.
2.08   High-quality statistical monitoring is necessary to the success of any program to alleviate
poverty. A good information system on incomes, expenditures, access to basic social services, and
other poverty indicators would allow the Government to target its resources and energy where the



- 8 -
needs are greatest and as new areas of social exclusion emerge.  The continuous tracking of
carefully selected, multisectoral indicators of development would allow the Govermnent to
determine the effects of its social policy, and--if necessary--to reorient its actions.  Statistical
monitoring therefore is an indispensable ingredient of the Government's social development strategy
and equally deserving of Bank support. Bank assistance in this field, furthermore, would be a
continuation of its involvement in the first Living Standards Measurement Survey and would help
reinforce earlier capacity-building efforts and make them sustainable. Finally, Bank support to
coordination mechanisms would be a logical complement to other forms of assistance and would
increase the chances of success of the various social programs designed to implement the SDS,
while raising public awareness of social issues and facilitating the dialogue between Moroccan
officials and the donors'community.
C. Bank Expenence and Lessons Learned
2.09   In the past, the Bank has supported several operations in Morocco's social sectors, and
three such projects are currently being implemented: the Rural Primary Education Project (Loan
3026-MOR, US$83 million; 1989-96); the Rural Basic Education Development Project (Loan 3295-
MOR, US$145 million; 1991-97); and the Health Sector Investment Project (Loan 3171-MOR, US$
104 million, 1990-96). The main general lessons to be drawn from these operations are as follows:
(a) Reforms in the social sectors should not be overly ambitious because of their immense impact on
large groups and the political risks attached to them. (b) A good management information system
and simple and transparent management, procurement, and disbursement procedures must be in
place for all Bank-financed activities. Such measures are also meant to offset cumbersome local
financing circuits, which tend to delay execution and slow down disbursements, especially for
decentralized project activities. A study is currently being conducted by the Government to identify
precisely the bottlenecks and the sources of delays. (c) To ensure full acceptance of the project, it is
critical to seek the early involvement of all constituents--in particular, employees of line ministries
at the provincial and local level who will play a crucial role during project implementation. It is
equally important to involve other government constituencies (such as the Ministry of Finance) and
other donors early enough in the process to guarantee successful future collaboration. (d) Finally,
realistic budgetary envelopes have to be projected (and committed) to ensure the sustainability of
sectoral programs and actions.
2.10   From its many social sector projects and two adjustment programs, Morocco has acquired
good experience in managing Bank-financed projects, whether sectoral or macroeconomic. The
proposed project would build on a base of experience, and qualified departmental units would be
designated to execute various components within the framework of the SPP/BAJ. Furthermore,
Morocco's strong involvement in recent sector work (the 1991 LSMS, the Bank's poverty
assessment, two studies in the education sector, the current Maghreb study on health priorities, etc.)
has shown that local expertise is available. The proposed program would therefore be a natural
continuation of this involvement.
III. THE PROJECT
A. The Social Priorities Program
3.01   The proposed project is part of the Social Priorities Program I (SPP I; Barnamaj al-
Aoualaouiyat al-Ijtimaiya, or BAJ I, in Arabic; Programme Priorites Sociales, or PPS, in French),



initiated to assist the Government in the implementation of its strategy to increase the poor's access
to basic social services, enhance basic social protections, and create new opportunities for the
unemployed to participate in economically productive activities. The program would also bolster
Government awareness of poverty-related and social issues and catalyze efforts to rehabilitate
Morocco's social sectors. While the SPP would entail a series of consecutive programs following
one another at a rapid pace, SPP/BAJ I was conceived as a set of three complementary projects to be
negotiated and implemented simultaneously (Annex 2). All three share the same broad objectives,
were developed within the same framework, and would be implemented independently within the
same geographical area.
3.02   By using a multisectoral approach--which is expected to yield more significant and durable
results than serial, strictly sectoral projects--this tripartite program would help to guarantee
flexibility in execution and should therefore be a more efficient way to channel energies and
resources. The SPP/BAJ would target Morocco's thirteen poorest and least urbanized provinces,
where 27% of the total population, or 7.1 million people, currently live (provinces and selection
criteria are listed in Annex 3). By involving provincial authorities in project monitoring, moreover,
the SPP/BAJ should achieve the integration needed to reinforce its impact. The objectives of the
three projects are: (a) to increase the quality and quantity of basic education while at the same time
making the education system more efficient and equitable; (b) to improve access to basic health
services and improve their quality while bolstering performance and managerial capacities within the
health care system; (c) to enhance basic rural infrastructure through labor-intensive techniques; and
(d) to establish a permanent apparatus for data collection and analysis that would strengthen the
Government' s ability to galvanize support for SDS activities and monitor their impact.
B. Project Objectives
3.03   The specific objectives of the third project proposed under the SPP/BAJ are (a) to improve
basic infrastructure and generate income transfers in rural communities--in which education and
health services would be reinforced by the other two sister projects--through the use of labor-
intensive techniques; (b) to set up a body that would have the permanent capacity to monitor and
analyze the socioeconomic standards of living of the population; and (c) to raise public and political
awareness of social issues, their relation to economic growth, and the remedial action required. As
proposed, therefore, the third project would be a linch-pin in the SPP/BAJ's overall architecture. In
addition to providing specific actions in the targeted rural areas (Zones d'intervention prioritaire --
ZIPs) of the thirteen selected provinces, it would amplify the impact of the other two projects
proposed under the SPP/BAJ program.
C. Project Description
3.04   The proposed project would be implemented over a five-year period, plus one year to
complete disbursements, at a total cost of US$49.5 million equivalent, and would include the
following components: (i) reinforcing PN activities designed to alleviate poverty; (ii) creating the
institutional and technical tools needed to monitor and analyze social conditions and the programs
whose aim is to improve these conditions; and (iii) helping a central Government body to
coordinate the various actions undertaken under the SPP and national social development strategy
and to provide feedback to decisionmakers.



- 10 -
Employment promotion
3.05   The first component of the proposed project (US$39.8 million) would entail the selective
reinforcement of labor-intensive works undertaken by the Promotion Nationale. Pursuing a two-
fold objective, the agency would both (i) create temporary employment in specific, carefully
selected sites in rural areas (ZIPs) thus distributing transfer incomes to poor households and
increasing monetization in those areas, and (ii) contributing to build, maintain, and equip basic
infrastructure for agriculture (irrigation canals) and rural communities (dirt roads, wells, latrines).
These works would complement the education and health facilities to be built--in many cases in
association with the PN--under the other two sister SPP/BAJ projects, and, moreover, the
improvement of local infrastructure would boost demand for basic education and health services to
be provided under the other two SPP/BAJ projects. Works to be financed by the third project
would be undertaken only in the priority zones (ZIPs) already selected for SPP/BAJ education and
health interventions. All works under the third project would fall into the category of traditional
Promotion Nationale activities and therefore under that agency's initial mandate to provide both
employment and basic facilities to deprived rural areas. The proposed third SPP/BAJ project would
support activities in the areas of rural infrastructure, literacy, and institutional capacity building.
3.06   Rural infrastructure.  Small-scale facilities and infrastructure would be constructed at
selected sites in the target provinces.  The proposed project would also finance construction
materials for civil works, thereby supplementing the inputs directly financed by the municipalities
and the labor supported by the PN. The list of proposed sites and works was established during
project preparation on the basis of priorities established by the municipalities and revised by the
PN's central office. The PN is willing to reorient its activities toward impoverished rural areas and
has agreed at negotiations on a schedule to reduce the part of its overall budget allocated to chantiers
d 'opportunite occasionnelle (mostly made up of clerical work in urban communities) from its
current level down to 20% by December 31, 2000 [para. 6.03a(i)].
3.07   Literacy programs. By coordinating pilot literacy campaigns with the activities of the PN
(when their size and duration make it possible), the proposed project would take advantage of the
PN's concentration of unskilled and largely illiterate workers and would link skills-acquisition with
the concrete goals of a construction project.  The project would also finance limited technical
training to help foremen adapt site organization for the provision of literacy programs.  The
experiment of bringing such programs to workers on-site would be carried out in cooperation with
the SPP/BAJ Basic Education Project.
3.08   Institutional capacity building. The project would strengthen the institutional capacity of
the PN at the central and provincial levels by providing technical assistance, training, and equipment
to facilitate the introduction of the Program Management Information System (PMIS) and other
monitoring systems, which would be established by the SPP/BAJ program coordination unit, or
Secretariat, already in place, in order to bring more transparency to agency procedures.
Government's commitment to the institution of the PMIS and monitoring systems was made during
negotiations [paras. 4.22, 4.24 and 6.03c(i)]. The agency would also monitor the impact of its
activities, making systematic use of beneficiary assessments (two assessments during project's life)
to adjust the project's targeting criteria [paras. 4.12 and 6.03d(ii)].
Statistical monitorin,
3.09   The second component of the proposed project (US$4.4 million) would consist of two
major, complementary subcomponents--the establishment of an Observatory for Monitoring Living



- Il -
Conditions and the carrying out of a second Household Living Standards Measurement Study--both
under the auspices of the Department of Statistics of the Ministry of Population.
3.10   The Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions.  As proposed, the Observatory
would consist of a permanent analytical unit in charge of tracking household living conditions and
analyzing the effects of social policy measures on the population's well-being. The Observatory
would be given a mandate to monitor the impact of the SDS and to propose corrective action. The
Observatory would also be permitted to take over specific tasks on a contractual basis. The status,
role, and staffing of the Observatory and its relationship to other Government institutions would be
set by ministerial decision, after consultation of potential users' views during a workshop to be
organized by the DS (Annex 4). The Observatory was officially established in the Ministry of
Population, as a condition of Board presentation [para. 6.04a]. The mid-term project review would
assess the Observatory's efficiency, the adequacy of its institutional framework, its work program
and staffing. It would also consider whether or not the Observatory should remain a division of the
Department of Statistics or should be given more administrative and financial autonomy [paras. 4.37
and 6.03d(i)].
3.11    The project would help to launch and finance the Observatory by: (a) recruiting local and
international consultants with the skill-mix needed to help carry out the studies and analyses
scheduled under the Observatory's work program; (b) providing training locally and abroad for both
central and provincial Observatory staff in the area of socioeconomic analysis; (c) conducting
training and awareness seminars and dissemination workshops for users of data, both public and
private; (d) establishing, upgrading, and managing a separate statistical database on Moroccan living
conditions as a subset of the database currently maintained by the Department of Statistics; and
(e) equipping the Observatory's central office with necessary technical documentation, computing
capabilities, information dissemination, studies, office furniture, supplies, and vehicles.
3.12   The Household Living Standards Measurement Study.  The proposed second LSMS
would be undertaken at the outset of the project (if possible during the second half of 1996), thus
contributing to the constitution of a set of baseline indicators, to be used for the purpose of program
evaluation. The survey would be undertaken by the Department of Statistics as a follow-up to the
1990-91 LSMS. It would help understand the changes occurred in the standards of living of the
population since 1990, and would constitute a baseline against which the project impact would be
measured. Given its national scope, it would ensure that control groups in the rest of the country
are monitored as well. The survey would collect the necessary data to establish key socioeconomic
indicators needed for the planning, monitoring, and analysis of economic and social policies and
programs.  Such data would include information about the impact of Government policy on
household living standards (such as household consumption expenditures, poverty and nutritional
profiles, and the degree of access to and quality of basic social services). Its contents and scope
have been agreed upon during negotiations [para. 6.03a(ii)]. The project would contribute to the
preparation, implementation, and analysis of the second LSMS survey and would finance: (a) the
recruitment of local and international consultants with expertise in survey design and methodologies,
sampling, data management, and analysis; (b) field-work costs (including support for temporary
field teams, publicity, survey equipment, transportation, household listing, regional supervision,
and quality control); (c) data entry and processing and the purchase of computers, printers, and
supplies for regional mobile teams; (d) the training of local staff in the design and analysis of
complex household surveys; and (e) the publication and dissemination of survey results and studies.



- 12 -
Strategy implementation and program coordination
3.13   The last component (US$5.2 million) of the proposed third SPP/BAJ project would support
a small program coordination unit, or Secretariat, whose role would be: (a) to monitor the impact of
the three SPP/BAJ projects; (b) to set up the Program Management Information System (PMIS) and
a Geographical Information System; (c) to coordinate and synchronize the actions recommended
under the SDS; (d) to keep the CSSS informed about the pace of implementation; (e) to prepare any
documentation or analysis the CSSS or Government might need in order to monitor, readjust, and
correct the country's social development strategy; and (f) to mobilize internal and external
constituencies to work together toward the goals of the SDS and to channel to it the necessary
resources. The Secretariat is already informally in place under the auspices of the new Ministry of
Population, which has received the mandate to supervise the preparation and implementation of the
SPP/BAJ, and to assist the CSSS [para. 6.01c].  It was established to coordinate the various
SPP/BAJ projects now being prepared as well as other SDS projects and programs. Terms of
reference and staffing for the Secretariat were agreed upon during negotiations [para. 6.03c(ii)],
and its formal establishment (including provision for its staffing) is a condition of Board
presentation [para. 6.04b]. The Secretariat would benefit from support from the project for:
(a) Institutional strengthening (including supplying computer equipment, training both
local and central staff, organizing overseas study tours, and supplying technical assistance)
to help make the Secretariat more effective in performing its tasks for the CSSS and in
serving as the liaison between the CSSS and the sectoral ministries implementing SDS
action plans.  This subcomponent would also help the Secretariat to learn (and later
disseminate) the techniques required for medium-term programming (the Secretariat's
mandate is detailed in paras. 4.20-4.24).
(b) A study fund to be used to complete or subcontract out (in particular, to the
Observatory) the operational studies and monitoring household surveys needed to improve
SDS program targeting. In particular, a study would be carried-out at the end of the
program in order to assess its impact on its primary beneficiaries, in the selected provinces.
A geographic program management and information system would be established for the
use of the five ministries involved in the SPP/BAJ [paras. 4.22 and 4.24] to monitor the
program's impact. The use of systematic participatory assessment methods would have the
added advantage of involving beneficiaries at the provincial and local levels while ensuring
that both project and program indicators are being updated in a timely manner [paras. 3.08,
4.12, and 6.03d(ii).
(c) Local and foreign specialized services in the areas of information, education, and
communication to assist the Secretariat in sensitizing national and international
constituencies, from the top down to the local level, and in mobilizing their support for the
SDS.
IV. COSTS, FINANCING, AND MANAGEMENT
A. Summary of Project Costs
4.01   Total costs of the three projects which, together, constitute the SPP/BAJ are estimated at
US$266.0 million. Total costs of the third project in the SPP/BAJ are estimated at US$49.5 million



- 13 -
equivalent, including US$9.3 million for contingencies (19%) and US$7.2 million for taxes (15%).
The foreign exchange component is equivalent to US$12.9 million, or 30% of total project costs
excluding taxes. A summarv of the proposed project's costs appears in Table 4.1. (See also Annex 5.)
4.02    Contingency allowances.  Project costs include a contingency allowance (for unforeseen
physical deviations) equal to US$3.8 million, or 9% of total project cost excluding taxes. Price
contingencies between negotiations and project completion are estimated at US$5.5 million, or 13% of
total project costs excluding taxes. Estimations were based on annual rates of increase of 5% per year
for local costs and 2.6% per year for foreign costs.
Table 4.1. Project cost summary by component
(DH million)               (US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Component
Promotion Nationale         197.0      67.6    264.7     23.7       8.1     31.9
Statistical monitoring       20.1      11.4     31.5      2.4       1.4      3.8
Strategy implementation      25.6      12.0     37.6      3.1       1.4      4.5
TOTAL BASE COSTS            242.7     91.0    333.7      29.2      11.0     40.2
Physical                     22.8      8.5      31.4      2.7       1.0      3.8
Price                        38.5      7.2      45.7      4.6       0.9      5.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS          304.0    106.7    410.7      36.6      12.9     49.6
* Numbers rounded off to nearest decimal, may not add up to totals shown.
4.03    Foreign exchange component. The foreign exchange component of costs (excluding taxes) of
various services provided under the project is estimated as follows: construction (25%); pedagogical
material (35%); furniture (25%); equipment, vehicles, computers (70%); foreign specialists and training
abroad (90%); locally recruited specialists, local training and seminars (10%). The resulting total
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$12.9 million.
4.04    Customs duties and taxes. On average, 20% of the cost of directly imported goods and goods
procured locally is made up of import duties and taxes. Indirect taxes on civil works are estimated at
15%.
B. Financing
4.05    Financing for the project would consist of a Bank loan of US$28.0 million equivalent, or 66%
of total project costs excluding taxes, and a Government contribution of US$14.3 million equivalent,
plus US$7.2 million for taxes. (See Table 4.2). The Bank loan would cover 100% of foreign
expenditures and 51 % of local expenditures, net of taxes. The Government would finance the balance
of local costs and taxes and entirely finance operating costs associated with the implementation,
administration, and supervision of the project (including the cost of staff salaries and architectural and
engineering services). During negotiations, assurances were given that the Government take all
necessary measures to ensure that adequate and timely financial arrangements were in place at all times
for the continued and successful operation of the project, including provisions for counterpart funds and
the establishment of individual budget lines for the project starting in fiscal year 1996/97
[para. 6.03b(i)]. During negotiations, retroactive financing up to 10% of the loan amount was agreed
upon [para.6.03b(ii)].
4.06    Several UN agencies--especially UNDP, UNFPA and UNICEF--have shown interest in the
SPP/BAJ and in particular in the Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions and the Secretariat to
coordinate the three projects. UNDP has worked closely with Morocco and the Bank in the preparation



- 14 -
of the project and particularly contributed to the organization of a workshop on monitoring systems.
While the differing Moroccan Government. UN agencies, and Bank project cycles made it impossible to
reach a fornal cofinancing arrangement, it is likely that the proposed project would benefit from future
UN support.
Table 4.2. Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Funding       Promotion Nationale (PN);   Ministry of   Total   % of Total Project
Source        Ministry of Intenor         Population          Costs excluding taxes
IBRD                    22.3                5.7        28.0          66
Government              11.5                 2.8       14.2           34
taxes                   6.0                 1.2        7.2
Total                   39.8                 9.7       49.5
C. Economic Analysis
4.07    The justification for the SPP/BAJ overall and for Bank support of this project in particular
lies in their key importance for achieving CAS objectives (paras. 2.7 to 2.9). Yet each component
of this project also warrants separate consideration for its particular economic and social goals.
Comparing costs and alternatives
4.08    Promotion Nationale.  There are few  reliable or cost-effective existing alternatives in
Morocco to the PN public works program for generating income and improving community
infrastructure in remote areas.  Using capital-intensive techniques to build and maintain local
infrastructure is neither socially desirable (since it would miss the employment-generating target)
nor technically feasible (since private firms are not interested in immobilizing their equipment in
areas difficult of access for works of limited scale). Nor is there a readily alternative to the PN,
since no private firms can match its organizational and outreach capacity, which allows it to run
even remote sites efficiently. Finally, the PN's well-monitored labor-intensive works, which pay
workers at the SMAG, are the most cost-effective way to improve rural infrastructure and reduce
poverty (the average cost to create one job-day is about US$7). Without this project targeted to the
poorest provinces, moreover, opportunities to generate income would decline even more in
Morocco, and infrastructure would become even further degraded, thereby reducing the efficacy of
the two sister SPP/BAJ efforts (especially the school construction component of the education
project), aggravating rural poverty, and fueling the rural migration to already saturated coastal
cities.
4.09    Because this operation has a double objective --enhancement of the local environment and
direct transfers, any cost-benefit analysis would have to separate out the two components of its
output--that is, the direct effect on incomes and on infrastructure. Yet such an approach would
disguise the fact that the two components are fully complementary.  Moreover, a cost-benefit
analysis is not possible for the first component, because the rural areas in Morocco offer the
unskilled workers recruited by the PN no alternative sources of income, so that there is no base
from  which to estimate project-related benefits in terms of wages.   Regarding the second
component, any comparison of the unit costs for PN works with those for works conducted by



- 15 -
private firms in accordance with national standards shows that the PN is the more cost-effective
alternative--even taking into account the fixed costs of the agency.
4.10   Potential project beneficiaries belong to two (not mutually exclusive) groups--unskilled rural
workers, who would be paid for their participation, and the users of the facilities the project would
open or maintain. The first group would represent about 30,000 individuals, whose households
altogether account for about 160,000 persons, while the served population can be estimated at about
1.2 million persons overall (Annex 6 provides details broken down by type of work).
4.11   There are few risks associated with the works proposed for this component, which entails
only activities already routinely undertaken by the PN and involves no technical or institutional
change. The high degree of local participation in the identification, preparation, execution, and
assessment of PN activities and the close contact of the provincial governors and PN provincial
representatives with local elected representatives are the best possible insurance for the success of
the operation.
4.12   During the project identification phase, local populations were consulted regarding their
needs, and their input would be used to guide the selection of works to be performed by the PN
under the proposed project. To reinforce this participatory approach and allow for feedback from
the populations once the proposed SPP/BAJ projects are in operation, the PN would actively
participate in participatory assessments, which would be initiated at the program level by the
Secretariat [paras. 3.13b and 6.03d(ii)].
4.13   Statistical monitoring. To obtain the information needed to adapt and optimize policies
regularly, there is no real alternative to the household survey based on a nationwide, statistically
representative sample of households (such as the LSMS). Less comprehensive and shorter surveys,
while less expensive, do not accurately capture the household behavior key for the adjustment of
poverty alleviation programs and for predicting the impact of economic measures on various social
and income groups. The base cost of US$2. 1 million of the projected survey would be in the upper
bracket for such surveys, which range from US$0.2 to US$3.0 million (World Bank 1995c), mostly
because of the high local staff travel allowances needed to obtain reliable and comprehensive data.
4.14   Strategy implementation and program  coordination.  A lightly staffed administrative
unit, the Secretariat, would coordinate the numerous and complex projects and programs related to
the SDS and would therefore be a prerequisite for successful SPP/BAJ implementation. Such a unit
is located in the multisectoral Ministry of Population, which has the advantage of being under the
direct control of the Prime Minister.  Its actual cost represents normal transaction costs (which
would amount to about US$0.1 million per year). a small proportion of the overall SPP/BAJ
budget.
Incremental recurrent costs
4.15   Since no new permanent staff or equipment (with the exception of limited computer
equipment) would be needed for the employment promotion component, no incremental costs are
associated with this component.  The PN's budget would have to be increased substantially
(para. 4.17), however, for it to carry out its extended mandate.
4.16   The Observatory would be staffed by redeploying staff already in place in the Department
of Statistics and would therefore entail no new additional costs.  The same holds true for the
Secretariat.   Other incremental recurrent costs for the statistical monitoring  and program



- 16 -
coordination components of the program include operating costs for the new equipment and vehicles
(to be used initially for the LSMS) and training and dissemination activities (to be established as part
of the Observatory's routine tasks).   Together these costs represent about US$0.3 million
annually--that is, less than 2 % of the total budget of the Ministry of Population.
Cost recovery and sustainability
4.17   With  the  supplementary  budget supplied  by  the  project. the  thirteen  targeted
provinces--which contain 43% of Morocco's rural population--would receive about 47% of the
Promotion Nationale's total budget for "traditional activities". The project would not include cost-
recovery mechanisms, however, for any of the infrastructure, facilities, or equipment it would
provide, which would be used free of charge until the discrepancy between living conditions and
real income between the urban and rural zones begins to close.  The lack of cost-recovery
mechanisms would mean that the Promotion Nationale's additional annual budgetary allocation of
about US$8 million for these provinces would have to be centrally supported for at least five years
following the completion of the project. But using these supplementary funds to target the country's
poorest citizens should help offset any ill-effects should food subsidies be reduced, and this benefit
would help gain support for the proposed project both from the Government and from other donors.
4.18   Because of the statistical monitoring component's minimal incremental costs and the fact
that its functions would be of the kind any modern state would need, it is likely that the activities of
the Observatory--whatever its institutional status--would continue after the project's life.  In
addition. the Observatory would be allowed to offer services on a contractual basis to generate
revenue. Since the usual periodicity of a living standards survey is five years, the need to update
household data would justify a third survey immediately after the project's close.
4. 19   The low-cost, lightly staffed Secretariat put in place for the purpose of implementing the
SDS and coordinating the program would not necessarily survive under the same form, and with the
same status, after the project. There would, therefore, be no need to guarantee long-term financing
for it at this stage.
D. Management and Implementation
Program implementation
4.20   The national Social Development Strategy (SDS) and the SPP/BAJ would be monitored by a
steering committee made up of all concerned ministers. Such a committee, the Comite de Suivi de la
Strategie Sociale (CSSS). already exists; it is assisted by a Secretariat, which is housed in the Ministry
of Population's Department of Planning, and is already in place. The Secretariat would be responsible
for monitoring the objectives of the SPP/BAJ and would also be the liaison between technical
ministries, the CSSS, and the donor conmunity (Annex 2).
4.21    To simplify implementation and avoid the creation of an overall project implementation and
coordination unit, program activities would be implemented under three distinct projects and financed
by three distinct loans. The first loan (for the Basic Education Project) would comprise activities to be
implemented by the Ministries of Education, Employment and Social Affairs, and by local communities
(construction of primary school facilities). The second loan (for the Basic Health Project) would
comprise the activities to be implemented by the Ministry of Public Health. The third loan, for the
proposed Coordination and Monitoring Of Social Prograrns and Labor Promotion Project, would



- 17-
comprise the activities to be implemented by the Ministries of Interior (Promotion Nationale) and
Population.
4.22   The multiple activities included under the SPP/BAJ will require the careful programming and
coordination of inputs from the various implementation agencies at the central, provincial and
commrnuity levels.  The individual impact of the three projects, too, could only be measured if
implementation were sufficiently well-coordinated for each to build on the efforts of the others. To
ensure that SPP/BAJ activities were implemented in a coordinated manner, both at the grass-roots level
and in the central ministries, the Government has committed itself to the setting up of an integrated
Program Management Information System (PMIS) by the Secretariat, and to the implementation of the
PMIS by the line ministries and the PN. The staff needed to run the PMIS in the Secretariat and in the
PN should be in place in time so that the PMIS could be launched no later than December 31, 1997
[paras. 3.08 and 6.03c(i)]. The data input would be performed by the implementation staff at the
provincial level and at the departmental and division levels in the ministries.
Proiect Implementation
4.23   Project activities would be implemented by the Promotion Nationale (Ministrv of Interior) for
the employment promotion component and the Department of Statistics (Ministry of Population) for the
statistical monitoring component. Neither agency has prior experience with the implementation of
IBRD projects. The Govermnent is presently conducting a study on the countrv-wide, generic
implementation issue of the slow payment of invoices to suppliers. The Government has ensured that an
action plan --based on the results of the study-- to improve the management of the proposed project, be
presented to the Bank for discussions before March 31, 1997, and that implementation of the
recommendations be launched no later than October 31, 1997 [para 6.03c(iii)].   A  project
implementation volume has been prepared, which will be used as a reference during the project's
execution. The PMIS would also help project staff to prepare annual implementation targets and bid
documents well in advance of budgetary allocations. The Secretariat would ensure that all activities
were implemented in accordance with program objectives and would be responsible for implementing
the SPPIBAJ Program Management Information System (PMIS) on a geographical basis. Specifically,
the implementation arrangements would be as follows:
4.24   Program Management Information System (PMIS). The project would include the setting
up of a PMIS. The Secretariat would have the overall responsibility for ensuring that a perforning
PMIS tool was in place and being used adequately by all implementation agencies concerned. The
responsibilities for administering the PMIS would be divided as follows:
(a) Provincial level.  Before December 31, 1996, one SPP/BAJ focal point would be
appointed in each province to coordinate and monitor the implementation of all of the SPP/BAJ
activities delegated by the various line ministries and to ensure that the PMIS data and
information was kept up to date [para. 6.03c(iv)J. The various provincial delegates would
provide the provincial SPP/BAJ focal point with all pertinent information about project
activities. The provincial focal point would ensure that the data was entered into the system
and would--with the assistance of this tool--prepare the annual provincial implementation
program. The PMIS would generate implementation progress reports and reports on various
indicators and financial benchmarks. The PMIS would be designed on a geographical basis,
The PMIS would be designed in such a manner as to allow for the gradual expansion of the
system to include other data required by the Governor or other users. The Secretariat would be
responsible for convening a meeting of all SPP/BAJ coordinators (education, literacy, health,
PN, Statistics) and all focal points (from the 13 provinces) once a year, to review coordination



- 18 -
mechanisms, to take stock of the progresses and to seek solutions to emerging problems [para.
6.03c(iv)].
(b) Ministry department and division level. Each department involved with the SPP/BAJ
would be responsible for managing the implementation of its respective project activities using
the PMIS system. To that end, each concerned department would appoint a staff-member to
manage the information derived from the PMIS system.
4.25   Promotion Nationale (PN). The PN would implement its activities through the award of very
small contracts (NCB) or by force account. Because disbursement would be based on proof of services
and because procurement would follow NCB, the PN would not need to know specific Bank
procurement and disbursement procedures. Although the PN has a well-trained and highly motivated
staff, its implementation record is mixed. This is partially due to the complexity of administering
thousands of small-scale building sites spread throughout the country's rural areas. The use of a PMIS
on a geographical basis would contribute to overcome this difficulty. The PN would also appoint a
PN/BAJ project coordinator by December 31, 1996 [para. 6.03c(iv)]. Assisted by at least two project
management specialists, this project coordinator would prepare the annual PN implementation program,
coordinate the program with individual project coordinators of the other two SPP/BAJ loans, and
monitor the implementation of PN activities. The two management specialists would ensure that the PN
data was adequately entered into the PMIS at both the provincial and central levels.
4.26   Department of Statistics. Implementation of this component would require activities in which
the Department of Statistics staff are already well grounded. Procurement would be limited to a small
number of computers and individual consultants, to the training of a limited number of staff and to the
means and staff required to complete the LSMS. Although the component's objective is important, its
procurement and implementation requirements would be relatively simple. Although the Department of
Statistics does not have previous experience with Bank procedures, for instance, over the years it has
developed considerable expertise in the procurement of computers and related equipment.  The
,Secretariat would ensure that the Ministries of Education and Health, which have a good know-how of
Bank procedures and are also involved in the SPP/BAJ, would assist the Department of Statistics with
specific procurement and other Bank procedures. The Department of Statistics would be responsible for
ensuring that the data and information pertinent to the implementation and monitoring of the
Observatorv component was entered into the PMIS.
Procurement
4.27   All goods and services to be financed by the loan would be procured in accordance with the
Bank's guidelines.  For ICB procedures, the Government would use the Bank standard bidding
documents, available in French at the time of project negotiations (Marches de travaux--Tadle
Moyenne and Marches de Fournitures). Procurement of goods and services would be undertaken by
the concerned line ministries at the central level, by provincial representatives delegated by the line
ministries, and by the communities themselves. NCB procedures at these three levels have been
reviewed by the Bank.  The procedures agreed upon are in conformity with general Bank
procurement guidelines with respect to economy, efficiency, equal opportunity to all eligible
bidders, development of local industry, and transparency  (Table 4.3 below summarizes the
procurement arrangements for goods and services).



- 19 -
Table 4.3. Procurement arrangements
(total, including contingencies in US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Goods and Services
ICB       NCB       Other    NBF       Total
Component
Construction                           7.9       31.5        -     39.4
-       (4.3)    (18.0)        -   (22.3)
Equipment                  1.2         0.7        0.4        -      2.3
(1.0)      (0.4)      (0.2)             (1.6)
Technical assistance          -           -       4.2        -      4.2
(3.4)             (3.4)
Training                                          0.9        -      0.9
(0.7)             (0.7)
Operating costs               -          -                2.7       2.7
Total financed costs        1.2         8.6      37.0      2.7     49.5
IBRD financing             (1. 0)     (4.7)    (22.3)        -   (28.0)
Figures in parentheses represent amounts to be financed by the loan.
(a) works undertaken by the PN as described in para. 3.05
4.28    Civil works. The proposed project would include the construction and rehabilitation of more
than 6,000 facilities (including housing, water fountains, village dirt roads, irrigation canals,
reforestation, and  rural markets).   Works  contracts  would  be  small in  value  (US$600-
100,000 equivalent per facility) and distributed over a large rural area. As demonstrated under previous
and ongoing loans, such contracts do not normally attract foreign firms. To achieve the social goals as
described under paras 4.08 to 4.12. in particular to create employment in the selected rural areas, it is
desirable to call for participation from local communities by employing labor intensive technologies.
The PN, as a department of the Ministry of Interior, implements small-scale activities through force
account or through material-plus-labor contracts. As such, the PN is best suited to help achieve some of
the goals of this program. Under the proposed project, the PN would procure building materials and
tools following NCB, and hire local labor at SMAG wages, (about US$7 per day). PN staff presently
responsible for procurement would handle all transactions involving building materials for the project
(NCB). The Secretariat would be responsible for ensuring that the procurement know-how and
documentation in other concerned ministries--in particular the Ministry of National Education and the
Ministry of Public Health--were made available to the PN. Civil works contracts of less than
US$20,000, up to an aggregate of US$500,000 equivalent, for the remodeling of small facilities in
remote areas may be carried out by force account with the Bank's prior approval.
4.29    Goods.
(a) Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost more than US$500,000 equivalent
each would be procured through ICB (US$1.2 million) with the exception of furniture, which
could be procured through NCB. Such furniture, manufactured by local suppliers, is of
excellent quality and priced below international cost, and its delivery and supply would be
appropriate for this project.



- 20 -
(bj Contracts for goods costing US$100,000-500,000 equivalent would be procured through
NCB. (US$0.7 million)
(c) Contracts for goods that the Bank agrees to be of proprietary nature (such as computer
software, books, and reference materials) may be awarded through direct contracting after
negotiations with proprietors or publishers in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank. (US$0.2 million)
(d) Contracts for goods costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each may be awarded through
shopping procedures on the basis of three price quotations from suppliers. (US$0.2 million).
4.30   Consultant services. Consultants financed under the project would be selected in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines for consultants. Consultant services would consist of foreign or local
specialized services to conduct specific studies or to offer short-term advice The project would also
finance studv tours abroad, some short-term overseas training, and local seminars. A large number of
consultant contracts would be related to civil works (architectural and engineering services). The
procedures unsder which such services are engaged are well-known and efficient (Annex 8 summarizes
-clchaical assistance, training and seminars to be needed and held during project implementation).
4..3 I   Contracts and contract review.
(a)    Items to be disbursed on the basis of proof of services would be subject to Bank
revlewXi as described in Annex 7.
(b)    Works. Contracts exceeding US$500,000 equivalent would be subject to prior Bank
review. Contr-acts below US$500,000 equivalent would be subject to ex-post Bank review.
(c)    Goods.  To ensure compliance with Bank procurement guidelines, procurement
documentationi for all contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000
equivalent or more would be subject to prior review by the Bank. Contracts valued at less than
US$500,000 equivalent would be subject to ex-post review (as described in Annex 7).
(d)    Consultant services and training. Procurement documentation for all contracts for
consuiting firms, estimated to exceed the equivalent of US$100,000 would be subject to prior
review by the Bank. Procurement documentation for all contracts for the employment of
individuals or single source selection of finns estimated to exceed the equivalent of US$50,000
would also be subject to prior review by the Bank. Procurement documentation for all contracts
for consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent and US$50,000 for all
contr acts for the employment of individuals or single source selection of firms estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of US$50,000 would be limited to terms of references only.
(e) Contracts and financial data related to activities subject to lump sum disbursement
procedures will not be subject to post review but will be subject to technical audit [para. 4.35].
Disbursement
4.32   Ilhe project would be implemented over a period of five years.  Including a 12-month
disbursenicat lag. the closing date would therefore be December 31, 2003. The loan would be disbursed
ac..or2ing to the categories and schedule shown in Tables 4.4, 4.5 and 4.6.



- 21 -
Table 4.4. Disbursement by categorv                                 ___
Category                                                       Schedule
Category 1
Civil Works         (a) lump-sum for items listed in table 4.5;
(b) 100%O of foreign expenditures and 70%  of local expenditures for items
not listed.
Category 2
Equipment            100%  of foreign expenditures and  70%  of local expenditures.
Category 3
Consultants'         100%
services,
surveys
& training
Table 4.5 Disbursement by lump sum:
Lump sum  disbursement amounts by activities (DH)
Activities                                                    lump sum
I    disbursement
PROMOTION NA TIONALE
Water wells and water related works                              45 000
........................ .............................................. ..................................... ...............................................
Communal ablution blocks                                         35 000
............................................................................................................. ................. .............................
Dams, retaining walls etc.                                       60 000
Communitv centers                                              220 000
.. . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .........................   .. . . . . . . . ....................    ..   .. ..
Dirt roads (per km)                                              60 000
Reforestation (per hectare)                                      15 000
Table 4.6 Proposed disbursemnent schedule
(US$ million)
Disbursement Plan                                             Project Year
1            2              3              4               5               6
Annual                1.0           4.0            6.0            6.0             6.0              5.0
Cumulative            1.0           5.0           11.0           17.0            23.0             28.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _          _ _ _             _ _          _          _            _ I~
Note: Because of budgetary planning constraints, payment delays, and disbursement lag, the disbuised amount
estimated for the first year of implementation would represent the initial deposit to the special account only.
4.33     Documentation. In accordance with regular Government procedures, the required supporting
documents would be retained by the implementing agencies for at least one year after the Banik received
the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be
made available for review by auditors and visiting staff upon request. Documentation for contracts
subject to lump sum disbursement would consist of a "proof of services". This is a certificate



- 22 -
established by the Borrower, confirming that the specific activity has been implemented in accordance
with agreed standards and criteria. (Annex 7). The content and procedure to establish a proof of service
was presented in a format agreed upon during negotiations [para. 6.03c(v)]. Both the disbursement by
lump sum and the documentation by proof of services are innovative, result-oriented methods aiming at
simplifying procedures and accelerating project disbursement, while giving more initiative to the
beneficiaries (especially communities); they concur with the directions set in the new Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (para. 3.15). For expenditures under contracts above
the prior review threshold, full documentation would be required. All other expenditures would be
disbursed based on Statement of Expenditures (SOE).
4.34   Special Account. To reduce the number of claims submitted to the Bank, the Government may
establish, maintain, and operate--under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank--one Special
Account, in which the Bank would make an initial deposit of up to US$2.0 million. This special account
would be located in the General Treasury of the Ministry of Finance and would be replenished every
month, or whenever the undisbursed balance of the account would fall below an amount equal to
one third or less of the amount of the initial deposit, whichever came first.
4.35   Accounts and audits. Each department responsible for the implementation of the project in
the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Population would maintain separate accounts for all
project activities in conformance with international accounting practices. Project accounts would be
audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed
by the World Bank (World Bank, March 1982). Activities subject to reimbursement on the basis of
proof of services would be audited in accordance with OD 10.60, para. 48. For technical audits, both
reimbursement claims using SOEs and applications for replenishment of special expenditures from the
Special Account would be required to be certified by an independent expert rather than by an auditor.
The Bank would be provided with an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank might
reasonably request (including a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursement against a certified
statement of expenditures and a certified statement of proof of services) within the six months
following the end of each fiscal year.
Supervision, monitoring, and evaluation
4.36   Status of project preparation. The Secretariat has de facto taken over the responsibility
for coordinating the preparation of the three projects. The Secretariat has convened a number of
meetings with other concerned ministries, and has organized a workshop on monitoring the
implementation of the SDS. It liaises on a regular basis with the two executing agencies of the
project, i.e the Promotion Nationale and the DS, which is a department of the Ministry of
Population (where the Secretariat is domiciliated).  Bids would be launched as soon as the
corresponding budgets were available. Provincial delegations would start preparing bid documents
as soon as the ministries delegated the implementation of those activities and provided corresponding
budgets. But because of budgetary planning, payment, and disbursement lags, during the first year
of implementation the loan would disburse only the amount corresponding to the initial deposit to
the Special Account.
4.37   Project implementation review. Each line ministry would prepare an annual implementation
progress report of a scope and in the detail agreed upon by the Government and the Bank. These reports
would be submitted to the Bank not later than September 30 of each year beginning in 1997
[para. 6.03d(iii)]. The annual report would (i) review the progress made in the implementation of the
various components of the project on the basis of the indicators agreed upon, (ii) detail sectoral (PN )
and project expenditures (PN, Observatory and Secretariat) for the current year, and (iii) set forth all



- 23 -
projected activities to to be undertaken under the project in each selected province. In addition, the
Secretariat would collect and synthetize annual reports issued for all three BAJ projects, offer a
qualitative assessment of the program progress, and consolidate them in an annual program
implementation report for discussion with the Bank. A mid-term project implementation review would
be conducted no later than December 31, 1999 [paras. 3.10 and 6.03d(i)]. This mid-term review would
not only assess the project's implementation progress in greater detail but would also assess the extent to
which project activities might need to be redirected to achieve the objectives of the program. In
particular it would reassess the administrative status of the Observatory.
4.38   Monitoring indicators. The Government has developed, in coordination with the Bank, a list
of program and project indicators (Annex 9) by which both the process and the impact of the proposed
operations can be monitored.  The list of indicators had been agreed upon before negotiations
[para. 6.02a]. It was agreed during negotiations that baseline and target values for most indicators
would be established by June 30, 1997 [para. 6.03d(iv)]. Thereafter, the value of these indicators
would be updated each year and incorporated in the annual implementation report submitted to the Bank
each vear by the Secretariat [para. 6.03d(iii)].
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.01   The following benefits are expected to accrue from the proposed project: (a) The creation
of the equivalent of about 30,000 working-years for underemployed persons and persons in
deprived, drought-plagued areas in the thirteen poorest provinces of Morocco, which have been
targeted for the SPP/BAJ.  (b) Improvement of the local environment in about 600 rural
communities where the PN would open sites. This would be accomplished by the construction or
improvement of local infrastructure used by over 300,000 households and would amplify the
beneficial effects of the other two SPP/BAJ projects. (c) Reinforcement, through the work of the
Observatory and through the results of the LSMS, of the analytical base used by decision-makers.
This should lead to a better general understanding of the interdependence of macroeconomic policy
decisions and living conditions and of poverty's multisectoral dimension. By enabling decision-
makers to see the impact of programs on beneficiary populations and geographic zones better and
faster, it should also help bring about more efficient targeting and remedial action.
(d) Improvement of the country's ability to monitor and assess public sector efforts, to raise public
awareness, build consensus, and catalyze activity in support of a comprehensive and aggressive
social policy that would both complement and enhance Morocco' economic ambitions.
B. Risks
5.02   Certain risks are common to all project components, while others are component-specific.
One common risk is posed by the lack of experience of the two ministries concerned with executing
Bank-financed projects. The technical assistance envisaged for each of the ministries should suffice
to mitigate their lack of experience, particularly since these ministries are already engaged in most
of the activities planned under the project and have most of the required technical skills. A second,
related common risk is the possibility of implementation delays, which could reduce the efficacy of
the two other concurrent SPP/BAJ projects. Implementation delays would be reduced by the fact
that all SPP/BAJ projects would be coordinated at the provincial level by the Governors and



- 24 -
monitored at the central level by the same authorities. Systematic use of an adapted program
management and information system and implementation of the recommendations of the ongoing
study on fund flow would further contribute to shorten implementation delays.
5.03   The first component-specific risk could arise from pressures put on the PN to devote more
of its resources to non poverty-oriented activities. This risk would be reduced by a clear targeting
system, by resorting to a beneficiary assessments monitoring system, and by the agreement on a
schedule to reduce the share of activities in urban communities. The second specific risk stems from
the Observatory's lack of independence or, conversely from abusing its own hegemony over other
producers and users of social statistics. The Secretariat could also err either on the side of inaction
or over-control. To make sure that the proper balance between administrative freedom and control
is being maintained, the supervisory ministry's relation to the Observatory would be assessed
during the midterm project review. Precise and transparent terms of reference for the Secretariat,
together with the commitment to use an appropriate management system, should assure its effective
operation. In addition, project, program and impact indicators would help assessors to follow the
project's progress and to detect significant deviations from its initial objectives.
C.    Stakeholders' Participation
5.04   Preparation of the labor-intensive public works component has heavily relied on beneficiary
inputs.  Elected and appointed representatives of the targeted communities in all the selected
provinces have conveyed their needs to local PN representatives, who in turn have gathered these
data and forwarded them to the PN headquarters in Rabat administration. The final design of the
PN program of activities is the result of this wide, bottom-up consultation, and reflects an approach
based on the needs expressed by those very people who express them, who would contribute to their
satisfaction through their work, and who would ultimately use the investment created as a response.
During project implementation, an annual beneficiary assessment would be carried out by the PN,
thus ensuring that implementation of this demand-driven component would also be monitored in part
by its beneficiaries. Preparation of the statistical monitoring component has also benefited from
potential users, through, inter alia, the organization of a workshop on the methodology of
evaluation of programs such as the SPP (UNDP contributed to the organization of this workshop,
also attended by representatives from other UN specialized agencies). The LSMS would allow to
reorient activities of this and other programs to neglected groups and/or regions which had not been
identified earlier as vulnerable. Finally, the other two projects of the SPP/BAJ Program have also
been prepared with the participation of actual actors and potential beneficiaries, thus ensuring that
the integrated activities envisaged under the program would coincide with real needs perceived by
the targeted population, and would mobilize those in charge of implementing the measures aimed at
meeting these needs.
D. Poverty Category
5.05   The proposed project is part of the SPP Program whose entire justification and overarching
objective is poverty alleviation. Eighty percent of the loan would be directly used to improve living
conditions and environment of vulnerable persons in the rural areas of the 13 poorest provinces in
the country. The rest of the loan would contribute to a better monitoring of poverty and to
coordination of poverty alleviation activities. Therefore, this project would be a 'Program of
Targeted Interventions".



- 25 -
E. Environmental Assessment
5.06   The proposed project, as currently formulated, was reviewed under the procedures specified
in O.D.4.00, Annex A: Environmental Assessment and determined to be in screening category C,
which includes projects that do not normally result in significant environmental impact.  No
Environmental Assessment, therefore, would be conducted for this project.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01   During project preparation and appraisal, the following actions were taken:
(a)    The Strategie de Developpement Social was reendorsed [para. 2.02].
(b)    The contract for the study on financial circuits was signed [para. 4.231.
(c)    The Secretariat was informally installed [para. 3.13].
6.02   Before issuing the invitation to negotiate:
The final list of selected project indicators was transmitted to the Bank [para. 4.38].
6.03   During negotiations, agreement was reached or assurances given regarding:
(a)    Sector specific actions
(i)    Schedule for the reduction of the share of PN activities devoted to urban
community works (Chantiers d'opportunike occasionnelle) to 20% by December
31, 2000 [para. 3.06].
(ii)    Contents and scope of the LSMS [para. 3.12].
(b)    Financing
(i)    Provision of counterpart funds, financing of all operating costs associated
with the implementation, administration, and supervision of the project and
establishment of individualized project lines in the budget of the Ministries of
Interior and Population, starting with the fiscal year 1996/97 [para. 4.05].
(ii)    Retroactive financing within the limits of 10% of the amount of the loan
[para.4.05]
(c)    Project implementation
(i)    Setting up by the Secretaniat of a Program  Management Information
System on a geographic basis, and staffing both the Secretariat and the PN for the
implementation of such systems by December 31, 1997, [paras. 3.08 and 4.22].
(ii)    Terms of reference and staffing for the Secretariat [para. 3.13].



- 26 -
(iii)    Presentation to the Bank of an action plan to improve procurement,
payment, and disbursements, based on the results of the ongoing study on fund
flows, before March 31, 1997, and launching implementation of the plan after its
discussion with the Bank, no later than October 31, 1997 [para. 4.23].
(iv)    Appointment of a SPP/BAJ coordinator in the Promotion Nationale and of
a SPP/BAJ focal point in each target province by December 31. 1996, and
Secretariat convening a meeting of all SPP/BAJ coordinators and focal points once
a year [paras. 4.24 and 4.25].
(v)    Procedures to establish a proof of service, and format of such a certificate
[para. 4.33].
(d)    Project review
(i)    Organization of a joint mid-term project review by December 31, 1999,
and reassessment, during the review, of the institutional status of the Observatory
with a view to possibly granting more autonomy [para. 3.10 and 4.37].
(ii)    Secretariat's  responsibility  to  initiate  a  minimum  two  beneficiary
assessments for each of the three proposed SPP/BAJ projects, the first one to be
included in the report to be prepared for the the mid-term review, and the second
one before project's completion [paras. 3.08, 3.13b and 4.12].
(iii)    Submission to the Bank, no later than September 30 of each year beginning
in 1997, of an annual project implementation report that would include a review of
project progress on the basis of selected indicators, projected sectoral and project
expenditures, and PN provincial programs, and of a synthetic program
implementation report for the three SPP projects [paras. 4.37 and 4.38].
(iv)    Baseline and target values of selected project indicators [para. 4.38].
6.04    As conditions of Board presentation,
(a)    The Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions has been formally established
[para. 3.10].
(b)    The Secretariat has been formally established, according to agreed terms of
reference [para. 3.13].



Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
Annex 1. Promotion Nationale: Structure, Activities and Financing
Table 1. Promotion Nationale: Breakdown of Activities
by Nature of Works (1961-1991 and 1986-1991)
Annual    Annual
Average   Average
Type of Site    Nature of Works   Unit   1961-1991  1986-1991
Reforestation       Ha           6800       5700
Soil protection and
reclamation         Ha           4200        300
Development  Land development      Ha          4000          0
Seguias (irrigation
ditches)            Km          10000      60000
Green spaces         Ha            60         20
Opening of feeder
Rural        roads                Km           2000       3300
Infrastructure   Feeder road
development         Km           1900        130
Structures           Nb            70         17
Roads               M2          19400      95000
Urban         Sidewalk paving     M2          67000    416000
Infrastructure   Drains           Km           4300      22000
Structures           Nb          2200        154
Source: Promotion Nationale.
Table 2. Promotion Nationale: Breakdown of Expenditures
by Type of Program, 1988-91
(percent of total)
Other
expenditure
Wages       s
Traditional activities  45.1     54.9
Hill dams             69.6       30.4
Saharan provinces     87.9       12.1
Communities            100          0
WFP program           74.4       25.6
Italian cooperation   20.2       79.8
Operation Hill Lakes  75.5       24.5
TOTAL                 75.4       24.6
Source: Promotion Nationale



Annex 1
Page 2 of 2
Table 3. Promotion Nationale
Budget by type of funding and type of program, 1987-93
(DH millions)
1987-  1987-
1993   1993
1987   1990   1993   Total  Percent
A. National funding
Traditional activities
Development     30.1   86.3   58.2  320.0    10.4
Infrastructure  13.0      5   44.5   79.4      2.6
Equipment       75.8   54.3  212.3  494.5    16.1
Urban communities    86.3  102.9  177.2  847.7    27.7
Saharan provinces    66.7   70.7  112.7  583.5    19.1
Hill dams           87.1   16.9    0.0  212.8      6.9
Hill lakes           0.0    0.3    0.0   13.9      0.5
PN equipment        11.9   12.4   19.6   66.3      2.2
Subtotal       371.0  348.8  624.5 2618.1    85.5
Hill lake (V.A.T.)   0.0   36.7   10.7  230.7      7.5
Subtotal national funding   371.0  385.5  635.1  2848.8    93.0
B. External funding
USAID               30.6    0.0    0.0   85.6      2.8
Italy                0.0    0.0    0.0   89.0      2.9
PAM                  0.0    7.0    0.0   39.1      1.3
Japan                0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0
Subtotal external funding    30.6    7.0    0.0  213.6  7.0
Total                  401.5  392.5  635.1i 3062.4   100.0
Source: Promotion Nationale.
Table 4. Promotion Nationale
Number of sites and number of jobs created
by group of provinces, 1993
Person-
Person- year
No. of  days   equival
Provinces    sites   (000)  ent
A. SPP/BAJ
provinces       803  2.368  12,024
B. Other
provinces       985  3.468  17,514
C. Total       1,788  5.837 29,538
Source: Promotion Nationale



Annex 2
Page 1 of 2
SPP/BAJ: ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Table 1. Ministry-Level Responsibilities for the Three SPP Projects
MEN         MSP         MEAS           Ml             MP
(1) Primary                ~~~~~(3) Primary
I. BASIC EDUCATION   (1) Primary              (2) Literacy    School
Ed ucation                           Construction*
1. BASIC HEALTH                    Hea lthic
III. COORDINATION                                                         (6) Statistical
AND MONITORING                                            (5  mlyet Monitoring
OF SOCIAL                                                 (5) Pro ymoton    (7) Program
PROGRAMS, AND                                                             Coordination
LABOR PROMOTION                              .                            (Secrftanat)
MEN: Ministere de I'Education Nationale (Ministry of National Education)
MSP: Ministere de la Sante Publique (Ministry of Public Health)
MEAS: Ministere de l'Emploi et des Affaires Sociales (Ministry of Labor and of Social Affairs)
Ml: Ministere de l'lntereur (Ministry of the Interior)
MP: Ministere de la Population (Ministry of Population)
* school construction not included
** supervised by local collectivities



Table 2. SPP/BAJ Organizational Chart
C 0 ~Secredtariat ~
Basic Education                                                Basic Health             Employment Promotion and
Project                                                        Project                  Poverty Monitoring Project
|        ~~~~~MEN    |N|MEAS                        l       l     |     MSP         ||       MP        l    l     Ml        l
co
< 1: ~~~~~~~~~~~~I
4)
sPeniasPs                                    sFocal point                            lsl
1 1    Coord+nator         Comm i+tee    Coord+nator                     Coordinator+Coordinator                 CDi
Q
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
PROVINCES SELECTED FOR THE SPP PROGRAM
Rural    Share in     Total    Share in
population, total rural population,   total
1994    population    1994    population   Ratio
Rank Province            (000)       (%)       (000)       (%)    rural/total
Saharan provinces       1.    Ouarzazate              553       4.4%        695      2.7%       80%
2.    Taroudant              560       4.4%         694      2.7%      81%
3.    Tiznit                 278       2.2%         348      1.3%      80%
Wilaya of Marrakech     4.    Al Haouz                402       3.2%        435      1.7%       92%
5.    Chichaoua              280       2.2%         312      1.2%      90%
6.    El Kelaa Sraghna       551       4.4%         682      2.6%      81%
7.    Essaouira              358       2.8%         434      1.7%      82%
8.    Safi                   447       3.5%         823      3.2%      54%
Wilaya Grand Casablanca 9.    Azilal                  393       3.1%        455      1.7%       86%
Wilaya of Tetouan       10.   Chefchaouen             396       3.1%        439      1.7%       90%
11.   Sidi Kacem             471       3.7%        646      2.5%       73%
Wilaya of Fes           12.   Al Hoceima              270       2.1%        383      1.5%       70%
13.   Taza                   502       4.0%        708      2.7%       71%
Total, selected provinces                           5,461     43.1%        7,054    27.1%       77%
Total Morocco                                      12,659    100.0%       26,074   100.0%       49%
Source: Ministere de l'lncitation de l'Economie - Direction de la Statistique.
Resultats provisoires du Recensement Gen6ral de /a Population. February 1995.
Note: Criteria for the selection of provinces
1. Living standards indicators
1.1 Annual per capita expenditures
1.2 Urbanization rate
2. Education sector indicators
2.1 Illiteracy rate
2.2 Admission rate in first year of primary education (children aged 7)
3. Health sector indicators
3.1 Under-5 mortality rate
3.2 Population per physician
3.3 Population per paramedical staff
3.4 Population per health center



Annex4
Page 1 of 2
SELECTED PROJECT DATA
Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions
Objectives. To achieve the improvement of population living condition, the 1991 Strategy
for Social Development (SDS) has recommended the design of measuring instruments for
"monitoring the social impact through specific indicators, carrying out a series of studies, and
establishing a social database on vulnerable groups". By observing multi-sectoral development
indicators, the Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions (OMLC) can monitor the impact of
social policies and programs on their primary beneficiaries, and present relevant recommendations
to policy makers for reorienting these policies for better efficiency. It is therefore recommended to
establish an Observatory for Monitoring Living Conditions (OMLC) basically oriented towards
advising policy makers on how to design poverty alleviation policies, and to upgrade these
programs for better reaching their objectives.
Administrative Status. The project would therefore support the establishment of an OMLC
within the Department of Statistics, and under the authority of the Director of DS. At the first
stage, the OMLC will function as part of the Direction de la Statistique (DS). It will gradually be
granted an independent semi-public status with relative financial and administrative autonomy from
the administration. A mid-term performance review, to be held in 1998, will help assessing the
viability of the OMLC and should present relevant recommendation with regards to the
modification of its status.
Mandate. The overall mandate of the OMLC is to (i) monitor the changes over time of a
selected set of key socioeconomic indicators, and to carry out specific studies intended to the
formulation, implementation and evaluation of social programs, undertaken by public and private
institutions. This mandate will include carrying out the following activities:
(i)   Establish and maintain a database on living conditions, generated by quantitative and
qualitative surveys, populations censuses, and administrative statistics;
(ii)  Design and monitor key socioeconomic indicators intended for policy makers as an
input into a periodic social balance sheet;
(iii)  Undertake on request retrospective and analytical as well as simulation and
prospective studies, in the social and economic sectors, including inter alia on issues
relating to human resources, employment, poverty. The studies' scope could be
national, regional or sectoral;
(iv)  Assist sectoral departments in line ministries and evaluation/monitoring services in
social projects, for addressing methodological issues, determining socioeconomic
indicators; and undertake specifically defined studies on standards of living in pre-
defined areas;
(v)  Contribute to the harmonization of statistical concepts and guidelines at the national
level for the design of measurement methods of household standards of living.
(vi)  Disseminate analytical findings throughout regular or ad-hoc publications; and
(vii) Establish a dialogue within the data user-producer community on statistical issues,
and promote a data open access policy.
A large volume of statistical information is currently collected in Morocco, archived and
sometimes analyzed by the DS and other line ministries. Nevertheless, policy makers are still
lacking accurate, operational, and timely data, to support the policy making process. The OMLC
should therefore be able to fill in this gap by making this data easily accessible in a user-friendly



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
format. On the other hand, the driving principles that should govern OMLC's working approach
are based on scientifically defined methods. Its findings will be formulated and disseminated in an
independent and objective way. The OMLC would be managed according to a set of mechanisms
that would ensure its capacity to (i) maintain an interactive attitude towards public, private and
international users; (ii) meet the needs of policy makers and private users for accurate and reliable
socioeconomic analysis in a timely fashion; (iii) maintain the dialogue between users and producers
of data; (iv) ensure open access to data for the users community; (v) undertake retrospective and
prospective studies in an independent spirit non-subject to power struggle (balance of power);
(vi) maintain a fair flexibility in its work program to respond to specific needs, especially those
requested by the implementation of the SDS; and (vi) secure training for its own staff.
The OMLC research will be primarily based on nationally available data in both published
materials and electronic data sets. It will however avoid using its resources for data gathering,
unless the latter activity has been specifically requested by other institutions. On the other hand,
the OMLC will be a partner in strengthening the national information system and consolidating
statistical capacities of different ministerial departments.
The OMLC will conduct its work program in a scientific and objective manner and will
publish its finding in a politically neutral way in order to facilitate the decision making process.
Staffing: At its outset, the OMLC will benefit from the human resources, experience and
funding of the Department of Statistics. A number of civil servants will be assigned from the DS,
Ministry of Population, and other line ministries. The OMLC will be also in position to recruit
national long-term contractual staff, and international short-term specialists as their specific skills
might be needed.
Work program. During the first phase of its existence, the OMLC will be responsible for
carrying out in priority the following tasks: (i) define, in coordination with other line ministries, a
set of policy relevant key socioeconomic indicators on living conditions and poverty; (ii) monitor
changes in socioeconomic indicators; (iii) assess, on an annual basis, the impact of public policy
and programs on the population in general and on targeted beneficiary groups; (iv) undertake multi-
sectoral studies on socioeconomic changes nation-wide and on specific geographic areas; (v)
develop new methodologies for social and economic investigations and analysis; (vi) disseminate the
finding of these studies by regular publications and by organizing public seminars and workshops;
and (vii) ensure training for its own staff.
Organization. The OMLC would be placed under the responsibility of a Technical
Director, who would report to the DS Director. As a reflection of its work program, the OMLC
would be organized in three distinct sections: (i) Measurement of Living Conditions; (ii) Social
Indicators; and (iii) Coordination, Dissemination and Training. Each of these sections would be
divided into specialized units according to the ongoing studies and activities.



Annex 5
Page 1 of 1
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(US$ Million)
IIIA        111B          IIIC
Employment  Statistical     Strategy
Promotion   Monitoring  Implementation  Total
Investment Costs
WORKS
New Construction                              14.5           -               -    14.5
Development/Rehabilitation                    17.0           -               -    17.0
Subtotal                                        31.5            -              -    31.5
EQUIPMENTS
Machinery, Tools                                -          0.0               -     0.0
Vehicles                                       0.1         0.2             0.2     0.5
Data processing                                0.2         0.4             0.7     1.2
Office Supplies                                  -         0.2               -     0.2
Subtotal                                         0.3          0.9            0.8     2.0
EXPERTISE
Studies                                          -           -             2.2     2.2
Foreign Consultants                           0.1          0.4             0.6     1.1
Local Consultants                              0.0          0.4              -     0.4
Subtotal                                         0.1          0.8            2.8     3.7
TRAINING
Local /a                                       0.0          0.2            0.4     0.6
Abroad                                           -          0.1              -     0.1
Seminars                                         -          0.1              -     0.1
Subtotal                                         0.0          0.4            0.4     0.8
Total Investment Costs                            31.9          2.1            4.0    38.0
Recurrent Costs
Operating Costs                                  0.0          1.2            0.5     1.7
Salaries                                           -          0.5              -     0.5
Total Recurrent Costs                              0.0          1.7            0.5     2.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                              31.9          3.8            4.5    40.2
Physical Contingencies                           3.2          0.3            0.3     3.8
Price Contingencies                              4.8          0.3            0.4     5.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                               39.8          4.4            5.2    49.5
Taxes                                            6.0          0.4            0.8     7.2
Foreign Exchange                                 9.7          1.6            1.6    12.9
\a including information and awareness campaigns



Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS DATA
A. Promotion Nationale
1. Costs. For the type of local infrastructure work undertaken by the PN, the private sector would
charge between 30 percent (constructions) and 60 percent (feeder roads) more than the PN. Indeed,
PN costs should be adjusted for overhead and the burden of the agency's own permanent staff.
However, the latter represents only 2 percent of the annual operating costs (a very low figure which
reflects the light staffing of the PN), leaving a hefty comparative edge for the state-run agency. PN
unit costs (per site) for the works to be completed under the SPP/BAJ program would run between
$600 (for an anti-malaria campaign) and $37,000 (construction on one community building
averaging 200 mi2). A third of the budget would be devoted to feeder road maintenance, which
costs about $12,000 per km (Table 1). The daily cost per man day created for the activities
selected under the project would run between $5 (for feeder roads) and $23 (for wells construction).
Given the structure of the works envisaged, the average cost of one day-job created would be
around $7.
Table 1. Promotion Nationale
Unit costs by type of work
Unit Cost Wages as a
(DH)     Percent
of Cost
1. Sources and wells: maint./impr.    50000          70
2. Latrines: construction             40000          50
3. Slaughter houses: maint./impr.     90000          60
4. Slaughter houses: construction    150000          50
5. Anti-malaria campaigns              5000         100
6. Preschool facilities: maint./impr.  40000         65
7. Preschool facilities: construction  70000         50
8. Small infrastructure: construction  100000        65
9. Community buildings: construction   310000        50
10. Wells: construction               70000          60
11. Irrigation ditches                80000          60
12. Feeder roads: maint./impr.       100000          90
13. Feeder roads: opening            160000          80
14. Reforestation                     20000          90
Source: Promotion Nationale
2. Benefits. On average, the wage bill for the unskilled workers who will be recruited will account
for 60 percent of the total costs of the activities to be undertaken under the project. This average is
higher than the actual figure observed for the "traditional activities" in which the PN is engaged in
(45 percent over the period 1988/91), because the agency will increase the share of higher labor
intensive activities such as feeder road maintenance and opening. The lowest proportion of labor



Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
costs in the budget of any site will be for construction, where they will represent 50 percent
(Table 1). Typically, the opening of one site will translate into 500 (for the construction of a
latrine) to roughly 3,500 person-days (construction of a community building or opening 1 km of
feeder road). In other words, as most of the works are being done during the three less active
months of the year, each site will keep active between 10 and 60 persons for three months
(Table 2).
Table 2. Promotion Nationale
Beneficiaries by type of work
No. of     No. of     Person-    No. of
projec.ts   person-     years    potential
days by   equivalent   users
1. Sources and wells: maint.Aimpr.         540          270        480      91660
2. Latrines: construction                  177          480         250       5360
3. Small infrastructure: construction      150         1620         540    136720
4. Community buildings: construction       220         3870       2980      22600
5. Wells: construction                    1371         1050       4830    254430
6. Irrigation ditches                      213         1200         760     41580
7. Feeder roads: maint./impr.             1778         2250      11170    403400
8. Feeder roads: opening                   152         3210        1570     42170
9. Reforestation                          2155          450       3890    278800
Total                                  6756                   26470   1276720
m:\bm\mor\pa154\sarc\sarcx6.ed sheet 1
B. Statistical Monitoring
1. Justification. The LSMS survey provides the opportunity to measure the level, distribution and
depth of poverty. There are several other types of qualitative, small sized, rapid appraisal surveys
that could be considered. There are numerous advantages and disadvantages for these surveys: they
are indeed easy to design, quick to deliver, and quick to process and to disseminate; however, they
are not appropriate when (i) project affects large number of beneficiaries, (ii) policy makers require
accurate estimates of project impact; (iii) statistical comparisons must made between groups of
households, and (iv) target population is heterogeneous and it is difficult to isolate the influence of
factors unrelated to the project. This is why a statistically representative sample of nation-wide
households should be surveyed. The LSMS-Type survey can measure household consumption,
cash and in-kind expenditure, value of food items grown at home or received as gift, ownership of
housing and durable good, but importantly, help better understand household behavior, and causes
of poverty, including the mechanisms of resource allocation within the household.
2. Costs. The "prototype" budget developed in a recent Bank study' for an "average" LSMS
using a 3,200 household sample (same size as the previous LSMS in Morocco) is $1,300,000.
However, the same study reports a variation by a factor of 20-fold factor. The size of the survey
M.E. Grosh and J. Mutfoz, "Implementing the LSMS Survey: A Manual." World Bank, 1995.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
sample is the first most important factor to determine the costs. Once it is known, the next key
element is whether or not the staff to be sent to the field (field supervisors, interviewers, etc.) is to
receive some kind of compensation: wages and travel allowance. In the prototype budget, salaries
and travel allowance represent close to a third of the budget. Another critical factor is the need to
provide vehicles for the field work. In Morocco, both elements would inflate significantly the costs
of data collection, but data analysis would not represent an additional burden, as the qualified staff
would be allocated to this task at no extra charge.



Annex 7
Page 1 of I
PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT UNDER PROOF OF SERVICE
A "proof of service" is a certificate established by the Government confirming that the specific
operation, service or activity has been implemented in accordance with agreed standards, criteria or
terms of references which have been reviewed by the Bank at priori. For a "certificate of proof of
service" (Certificate) to be awarded these procedures would have to be followed:
(a) By September of each year, a yearly program of activities, planned to be implemented during the
next fiscal year, will need to be established for each of the concerned communities. This program
will be established by the delegates at the provincial levels, submitted for review and clearance to the
respective line ministries and for approval to the Bank.
(b) Budgets, corresponding to the approved list of activities will be made available by the line
ministries to the provincial delegations. For the construction of primary school facilities, each
community will include the necessary funds in its annual budget.
(c) Activities subject to lump sum disbursement procedures will be procured:
(i) in accordance with National Procurement Procedures;
(ii) for civil works: in accordance with agreed standards or architectural drawings reviewed
at priori by the Bank; and;
(iii) for training and seminars in accordance with agreed terms of references established for
each type of training or seminar, and reviewed by the Bank at priori.
(iv) Contracts and financial data related to activities subject to lump sum disbursement
procedures will not be subject to post review.
(d) Upon completion of the activity, the ministry's representative, accompanied by a technical staff
(architect, water supply specialists or engineer for civil works, etc.) will inspect the completed facility
or review the training/seminar, and issue a Certificate of completion and/or a Certificate confirming
that the training/seminar took place and was delivered as planned. This technical Certificate will
certify that the described activity has been implemented in accordance with the agreed standards,
criteria or terms of references, and will be established in a format and content acceptable to the
Bank. Because the disbursement amount is not a percentage of a contract amount, and because the
item has been procured in accordance with National Procurement Procedures, it will not be required
that the certificate mention the cost of the operation, nor the procurement procedure.
(e) This certificate will be forwarded to the concerned Ministry which will prepare a monthly
Statement of Expenditures (SOE), listing all completed activities. The cost of each activity will be
the average cost as defined in Table 4.5 of the SAR. The amount to be reimbursed will be the lump
sum amount per activity, as listed in Table 4.5 and in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement. The
certificate of completion may also trigger other activities such as providing furniture, educational
material, teachers for education facilities, and medical equipment and staff for health related
facilities.
(f) The annual audit will include an audit (at random) of some of the Certificates. The audit will also
include a technical audit (at random) of the implemented activities.



Annex R
Page 1 of 2
Summary of Technical Assistance and Training
Table I Technical Assistance
NATURE                      RESOURCES            RESOURCES
National           International
(person-month)       (person-month)
A EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION
1. Launch setting up of the Project                               lm/m
Management Information System (PMIS)
2. Design a Beneficiary Assessment           IMIm
methodology
3. Develop a post-literacy campaign          I p/m                2p/m
B. STASTISTICAL MONITORING
4. Feasibility Study                         2p/m                  Ip/m
5. Design data base & requirements                                 I p/m
6. Design analytical guidelines                                    2p/m
7. Socio-economic studies                    24p/m                36p/m
8. Assesment of data sources                 2p/m
9. Design socio-economic indicators          Ip/m                  2p/m
10. Design annual social study                                     1p/m
11. Survey analysis and studies              1 8p/m
12. LSMS Survey design                                             Ip/m
13. LSMS Survey Analysis                                           2p/m
C. PROGRAM COORDINATION
12. Design, set up, install and follow the                         30p/m
Program Information Management System
for all BAJ/SPP ministries and the 3
projects



Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
Table 2 Training
NATURE                               OCCURRENCE             RESOURCES
(person/month)
A EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION
1. Training Workshop in PMIS         2                      1 p/m
2. STATISTICAL MONITORING
3. Mid-term evaluation seminar       1                      1
4. Training Workshop in analysis     2 each year            6
methods
5. Training course in data base                             6p/m
management
6. Presentation Seminar of social study    I each year
7. Data dissemination/sensibilization  I each year
seminar
8.LSMS presentation seminar           I
9. Data dissemination seminar         I



Annex 9
Page I of I
Project Implementation Monitoring:
Key Indicators
Promotion Nationale
Indicator         Geographic                Contents                Baseline Value    Target Value
Unit                                                (1996)         (2000/01)
A. Global indicators
1. Poverty orientation    National    PN budget allocated to "Chantiers        50%                20%
(a)                                    d'opportunite occasionnelle" / Total
PN budget
B. Project Process
Indicators (b)
2. Employment         Target          Number of person-days created            N/A                N/A
creation               Provinces       each year through PN/BAJ sites
3. Income transfers    Target          Wage bill distributed through            N/A               N/A
Provinces       PN/BAJ sites
4. Physical                                                                     N/A               N/A
performances
4.1 Sources            Target          4.1 Number of sources                    N/A               N/A
Provinces       maintained/created
4.2 Latrines           Target          4.2 Number of                            N/A                N/A
Provinces       communal latrines built
4.3 Infrastructure     Target          4.3 Number or rural infrastructure       N/A               N/A
Provinces       built (by category)
4.4 Community          Target          4.4 Number of social facilities built    N/A               N/A
centers               Provinces       (by category)
4.5 Irrigation         Target          4.5 Number of km of irrigation           N/A               N/A
ditches               Provinces       ditches (seguias) opened
4.6 Feeder roads       Target          4.6 Number of km of feeder roads         N/A               N/A
Provinces       maintained/opened
4.7 Reforestration     Target          4.7 Number of ha of reforestred          N/A               N/A
Provinces       soils
4.8 Literacy           Target          4.8 Number of workers enrolled in        N/A                N/A
Provinces       literacy campaigns
C. Impact indicators
5. Evaluation (c)      Target Douars,  Beneficiary Assessments                  N/A               N/A
Communities,
and Provinces
(a) Schedule of reduction agreed upon during negotiations
(b) As PN's intervention comes as a complement to activities undertaken under the other two SPP Projects, values of the
indicators would be determined once programmation of these activities is completed. Monitoring will be done on an annual
basis.
(c) There will be two beneficiary assessments: one before the mid-term review and the other one before project completion date.



Annex 10
Page 1 of I
SELECTED INFORMATION IN THE PROJECT FILE
I       >iect Dowmnentatioin
World Bank/Kingdom of Morocco: Project Implementation Volumes (2 volumes, in French)
II     References
World Bank 1995a     Kingdom of Morocco. Country Economic Memorandum. Towards Higher
Growth and Employment (Report No. 14155-MOR)
World Bank 1995b     Claiming the Future. Choosing Prosperity in the Middle East and North
Africa
World Bank 1995c     M. Grosh and J, Mufioz. Implementing the LSMS Survey: A Manual
World Bank 1994      Kingdom of Morocco. Poverty, Adjustment, and Growth
(Report No. 11918-MOR)
Ministtre Charge
de la Population,
Avril 1995           Strat6gie de Developpement Social pour la d6cennie 90



IBRD 27638
MOROCCO                                                    Tong.r 
M  A  R O  C                                            TANGER.-J
SOCIAL PRIORITIES PROGRAM                                                              TETOUAN
PROGRAMME PRIORITES SOCIALES   Loro h.. '-.                                                     - o_An                   3AH-
EMPLOYMENT PROMOTION AND POVERTY                                               fw CHEFCHAOUEN_A_HOCEIMA I                       NADOR              K
MONITORING PROJECT                                                 .T. .Quoton.< ,---<
PROJET APPUI A L'EMPLOI ET SUIVI DE LA PAUVRETE                                                        .TO " UNAr E
SELECTED PROGRAM PROVINCES                                           -'f SIDEKcEM -o                                                     OJeSII K4
PROVINCES SELECTIONNEES POUR LE PROGRAMME    n                                                                                                OUJDA
Robot   '     "-         2  \                           2UJDA
KHEMISSET      MN.   FES                                
RABAT       rho-nKhem \       3       Selrou'~ -
Moho,ed,o     .                                                                A3  ,   .R_ ,T
CASABLANCA            ni  rEN!SLIMAjNE        r -  "A0           _         /
El Loddo ~~~~~j  ~   ~~-' -        -'    P'IRANE- ~B-olnn...V
ElBJod,d= . l . ech, d .   = ~ 8 !~ ~  \  R   ''~A'\ MEKNES\  'O  BOULEMANE V
0    -       S / KHOURI6GA ' -                       S                        . ,   .             /
EL-JADIDA      SETTAT Kh!our,bgO   00-cl Ze          hno             '                               FIGUIG 
,,o .bi ;  -  ' K b T od l   ~     K H E N IF R A   /
N,    ./         ^e       J         6BENI-MELLAL _
KELAAT                                                                                                     F  u,g
SAP)  '\       SRAGHNA       ----                  -/    '--_                                 ' -                                    22
1  4             f I         OAZILAL       )? ,E n hdo A
ESSAOUI,RA                                                                               CHID
r-CNICHAOUAg  tE  A0                              SOS s           /                        eq
Essoou,ro@     >          .       C                                                                              )- s-    
OUARZAZATE
Ag.d, *      *qro                                                                                 SHARE OF RURAL POPULATION OF A PROVINCE
I   ) __ @-   }                   <            :      O                IN THE TOTAL POPULATION OF THE PROVINCE
tjT  *                  -n                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPORTION DP LA POPULATION RURALE D'UNE PROVINCE
rAROUDANNT (                     ,, j                                                  PAR RAPPORT A LA POPULATION TOTALE DE LA PROVINCE
AGADIR                                                                                              B BETWEEN 50% AND 74%
L......... ),ENTRE 50 ET 74%
_F  *~s751   7    AND MORE
TJonit         _/   '                                                      _T I0                           75% ET PLUS
/           '/            0~~~~~~~~~l                                                            RIVERS
--         \TATA                                                                                COURS D EAU
,f  nzNIT       J,                       r  @ PROVINCE CAPITALS
/                                                                                      CAPITALES PROVINCIALES
t   o  --  i           vrv                                                                 *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
CAPITALE NATiONALE
I/3Gualml_e ,/ / o 50 100    50 _ _. FPROVINCE BOUNDARIES
~~o  1?0  I 0         ~~~~~~~~~LIMITES PRO VINCIALES
INTERNATIONAL BOUND~ARIES
KILOMETERS                                          pRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES
GUELMIME                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
o- '_  ", -o do' -nmply on he p.n.of Th. hW,d BonilGSo-p           FRONTIERES INTEPNATIONALES
TAN-TAN                                                 any ,odpnsenr On I- eoroI 00501 aI any rlto's'5o or o"T endo,loenI  2(APPROXIMATIONI
-ywOSSopSOnSO o(-ool-   bondo-,n, -sy
TAN-TAN         . ... P.-   -h b-cf.-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARh55k









IMAGING
Report No:      15075 MOR
Type: SAR



